!uzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuzuz by how much money you have. Some of you are going to fly first class. Some of you are going to be on the f***ing Greyhound. Some of you are going to be walking, hitchhiking. Money makes all your decisions. So the more money you have, the more options you have. Most of you are going to some job you hate just because you don't have enough money to quit. You're not sending your kids to the best school available. You're sending them the best you can afford. And most of y'all, that's public school. But that may not be the best available. So you need to be serious about making money. A lot of times people will try to demonize money. And be like, money's not everything. Nothing is everything, but everything costs money. Let's say you want to have a great relationship. Cool. What's the number one cause of divorce? Financial issues. Studies show that poor people get divorced more often. You may hear about celebrities and rich people getting divorced, but that's only because it's news when they do it, right? When a regular motherfucker gets divorced, it's not news. Nobody cares. It's just Tuesday. You know, health is the most important thing. If you want to live longer, studies show that people with more money live longer, healthier lives because they can afford the best healthcare, they can afford the best food, the best living conditions, and they have less chronic stress that can keep the cortisol low. The reason is because money equals freedom. If you feel like you're in bondage or you have to do a bunch of shit you don't want to do consistently because you lack money, how happy can you be? Of course you can be happy, right? I've seen a homeless man take off his shoes and start dancing in the street. He was thrilled. I probably haven't been that happy in years. And I've also seen rich people cry. But on average, you'll be happier if you make more money because you have more freedom. At the same time, you don't make money to become happy. You want to be happy and make money, right? Money is just going to magnify who you are. If you are an asshole, money is going to accentuate that. If you're a happy, kind, positive person, money will accentuate that. But the rich assholes get all the news, right? But there's a lot of rich people who are very kind, giving, but that's not going to make the news. You're going to hear about the rich assholes. So don't get money to be happy. Be happy and get money. Learn to control your own emotions. Don't let anything make you happy, especially an inanimate object, right? Your emotions are your responsibility, not money. But if you want freedom, you have to get money. You have to get serious about financial success. The next hack is failure is not necessarily an obstacle. In fact, failure is a prerequisite to success. I do not know anyone who just strolled their way to success. Everyone I know who achieved massive success had to deal with a lot of setbacks, failure, but that's the path. And that's why not everyone gets there because they either stop after the first failure or they're too afraid to even encounter the possibility of failure. So they stop. You need to change the way you think about failure. Instead of saying, oh, what if I fail? What if something bad happens? You need to get in your mind that you probably will fail. Something bad will happen. And that's part of it because you learn from failure. The failure gives you the experience. So when you encounter that same circumstances again, now you have more data and you can deal with that in a way where you're more likely to actually succeed under those same circumstances. But you got to have the failure first. Can you learn from the failure? For example, Michael Jordan kept getting beat by the bad boy Pistons. Isaiah Thomas, Bill Lambert, and them boys. They got beat twice. They got their ass kicked because the Pistons played like a really tough style of basketball. They were really physical, fouling and hacking and shit. Jordan, he was kind of still skinny because he was young. He kept failing twice. He said, I'm sick of failing. And he went and got what? He went and got a trainer. He went and got a coach. He started working with Tim Grover who taught him how to build up his body so he can handle a more intense season and a more intense playoff run. Next thing you know, six championships later seemed like it worked. But he had to go through those failures at first. In fact, it can be argued that Jordan wouldn't have won six championships had he not been beat by the Pistons those two times because he wouldn't have got the trainers. He wouldn't have got tougher. It wouldn't have forced him to get stronger and start working on his body. Failure is a prerequisite for success. I failed countless times. And that's why I succeed because I learned from those. I adjust. I encountered a failure. Then I keep going. So don't be scared of failure. Just know that, hey, it's probably going to happen. You're probably going to get some setbacks. I cannot think of anybody who just strolled to their goal. That shit don't even happen in the fucking movies. There's a great book called The Obstacle is the Way by Ryan Holiday. Every time I'm going through a setback or a failure or a struggle, I read that book and it lets me know, oh, this is part of it. This is part of what needs to happen and it goes to the next level. The only time you'll stop failing is when you stop trying to reach for new things. Number three, confidence comes from competence. A lot of people are scared to go after their goals or scared to do anything. And they said they just lack confidence. Similar to the fear of failure, but they just lack confidence. Here's the thing. You probably shouldn't be confident, bro. It's okay to not be confident when you're doing something you never did before because you don't have any evidence to show that you should be confident in that thing. You know, I never climbed a mountain, right? So if I went to climb Mount Everest or some shit and I was confident about it, that would be delusional. I ain't never climbed a mountain. I'm black. Never seen a black mountain climber. I'd be the first. I'd be like the Rosa Parks of that shit because I've never done it. There's no reason why I should have confidence. But what you need though is courage. You have to have a bravery. The beauty of courage, courage is more powerful than confidence. Or at least I admire the person who's courageous more than I admire the person who's confident because confidence means there's no fear. You just feel, oh, I got this, man. I can do this. To be courageous, fear has to be present because if you're not afraid of anything, it doesn't take any courage. Like I've made thousands of YouTube videos, so it doesn't take courage for me to sit here in front of a camera and talk. The first time I did it, it did though because there was no evidence to suggest that I was good at this or that people would like it. There was some trepidation, some fear. So I had to just do it. And obviously, some of the first ones were whack. And I learned from that and I kept improving. And next thing you know, they got better and better. And to the point where now I can just do one without even having to think too hard. And I know it's going to turn out pretty well. Number four, success typically takes longer than expected. I once read a book where Brian Tracy, I forget the book, but he said, things usually take about twice as long as you think. Sometimes people, I'm coaching and maybe they're trying to build their online fitness business and they're trying to build their following. They say, oh man, it's been like a month and I'm not making $20,000 a month. Or they'll be posting content and be like, oh man, nothing's happening. I'm not getting success. And you need to understand that it takes some time, especially initially because you got to build what? Momentum. Momentum takes a little while to build. You have to be able to perform and keep showing up even though you're not seeing the results. But over a long enough period of time, you will see them. I don't want you to look at success like hitting a home run. You take a swing and it just goes out the park. Don't look at it like that because that's going to fuck you up if you think it's supposed to be instant. I want you to look at success the way a child grows. If you see a kid in your family and maybe you only see this little motherfucker once or twice a year at like the family reunion or the gathering or a wedding or something, every time you see this kid, he's like way taller than he was last time even though it's only been a year. But to him, each day or even each week or each month, it looks like nothing's happening and staying the same because it's happening so gradually. But it's happening consistently because that's how nature is, right? Nature, it'll just grow consistently a little bit every day. That's exactly how success is. If you're making a little bit of progress every day, if you stretch that out over three months, over a year, then it's like, whoa, you'll see big results. If you got kids, you probably don't notice every day how much they're growing. For me, with my son, like I see him every other weekend because we don't live in the same state and every other weekend, it's like, yo man, this motherfucker's growing and then if I see an old picture of him from last year, I'm like, damn, he grew so much but I see him so frequently that it's like, it's difficult to tell from week to week. Yeah, because I see him every other weekend, sometimes more than that and I don't see a whole bunch of growth week to week but over the course of a year, this kid is growing and I also know because his mom's telling me he needs some new shoes all the time and that brings me to number five. Consistency is the ultimate competitive advantage because most people can't work day after day after day without seeing immediate gratification but if you can do that, again, it's just like the child analogy, the kid grows every day but the kid doesn't have to do anything, it just happens. Nature takes care of that. As long as he's getting enough sleep and his parents are feeding him, he's going to grow a little bit every day. It's undetectable. The problem with us is with our goals, we have to do stuff every day to make our goals grow. If you're expecting it to happen instantly or you expect it to happen in one month or two weeks, you can get frustrated and then stop and now you stop, you're stunted the growth. It'd be like, this kid didn't even grow today. Man, I ain't feeding this kid no more. He's not even growing. That's what you're doing with your goals. You're not feeding them every day even if you don't see the progress. Feed them every day because you will see the progress over a long enough time horizon. Number six, the people in your environment will influence you more than almost anything. There's actually science behind this. For example, there was a study that showed that if one of your friends becomes obese, you have like about A-50% chance of becoming obese because they became obese. Now here's the crazy part. Let's say that friend doesn't even become obese, but he has a friend who becomes obese even if it's somebody you don't even know. The studies show that you have a 20% chance of becoming obese even if you don't know that motherfucker. Everything is contagious whether it's mood, energy, habits, it's all contagious. And the number one predictor of financial success is if your friends are rich. So it's important that you do two things. One, you want to get around people who are doing the things you want to accomplish. That may mean you have to pay for access. You might have to join masterminds, clubs, groups, whatever you got to do to get in these circles. It's that important. For example, when I first moved in New York, I moved to a neighborhood that I could barely afford to live in. It was this neighborhood in Queens called Forest Hills. And I had a small tiny apartment there, but I knew it was a very affluent area. So instead of being in the hood, I got a small place in an affluent area. And there was mansions around there. Motherfuckers had Rolls Royces. And when I would be around that, I felt like, oh, it's possible. Then I started making friends from that neighborhood. And these people were doing bigger things. And it just, I picked up some of their habits and I got some of their knowledge. And it was super helpful. Contrast to where I grew up on the south side of Chicago, the black ghetto, right? When my friends were fucking gangbangers, dope dealers. When I was hanging out with them, we was running around getting arrested, getting in the fights and shit. And that didn't happen when I moved to a rich neighborhood. Do whatever you got to do to get around people who are accomplishing what you want to accomplish. Number seven, everything is hypothetical until you apply to your own life. For example, you can read studies about X amount of people did this and a certain percentage of them got this result. But that doesn't mean that everybody's going to get it. For example, yes, studies show if you smoke, you have a higher likelihood of getting lung cancer. But not everybody who smokes gets lung cancer. Everything is hypothetical until you apply to your own life. I got family members who smoked for like 60 years, smoke and drink, perfect health. I don't know. Can't call it. Everything's hypothetical until you apply to your own life. So what does that mean? For me, I don't look at the averages. The average business doesn't make it past five years, but that's the average. I don't consider myself average. I don't behave the way the average person behaves. If you want above average results, it's going to come from above average behaviors. The average American is 17 pounds overweight. The average American has less than $1,000 in a bank account. Fat losers. I don't behave like them. I don't think that those averages apply to me. I am one of the exceptions, but that's only because I behave in an exceptional way. If you are average, then you can expect average results. But if you're willing to behave in a way that's above average, then that shit does not apply to you. If you are willing to behave in a way that's exceptional and not average. Number eight, your life is your responsibility. I never blame what happens to me on anything else. I never blame the economy. I never blame other people. I always focus on it was my fault. And the reason I want to do that because I also want all the credit. If you're not going to take the blame, then you can't take the credit. So everything's my fault. For example, my father committed suicide when I was like 24 and it left us, me and the whole family in a financial bind. I didn't blame my dad for what happened. I said, fuck, if I would have taken success more seriously in my early 20s, one, I'd be in a better position to help my family. But also, if I would have really went hard and, you know, there is an amount of money that if I had it, my dad would have, he probably wouldn't have killed himself. I don't know what that number is, but there is an amount of money. So I took responsibility for all of it. But what I did was because I took that attitude, I said, you know what, I'm going to get serious about success and I'll never be in a position where I can't help out the people I love if they need my help. And that's been a big driving force for me to become successful. I never wanted to be in that position again where somebody I love or cared about or meant a lot to me needed my help and I wasn't able to help them. As a result, my cousin died in a car crash maybe two or three years ago and we were really close. Somebody had to help out his kids and pay for the funeral and all this stuff and I was able to do that because I took success so seriously up until that point. I took the right approach after my father did. I learned from that and I took the right approach. Number nine, don't waste time because time is what life is made of. Bruce Lee said that. You got to plan every hour of every day in your calendar. That's the only way I know to really bring the majority of your potential to the surface. If you're going to really rise to your potential, it's going to take time and if you're not utilizing your time correctly, there's no way you can utilize the majority of your potential. So, so many of you are wasting so much time and when I see the average person on the street, even like a fat loser, I'm like, man, this motherfucker got so much potential. He doesn't even know. He doesn't even know what's inside of him. I can just look at him, his results. I can look at his life and be like, oh, he's not utilizing his time. He's not going all out. Once you start planning every hour, every day in your calendar, I promise, just do it for 90 days. I promise those will be the most productive 90 days of your life. If you've never done this before, you will accomplish more in those 90 days than most people accomplish in their whole life. I guarantee that will happen. Not only will you get more done, you'll get rid of almost all your bad habits on accident. Like when I started doing this, I accidentally stopped drinking and smoking weed. I haven't smoked weed or drank in 11 years. It wasn't a goal to stop. I filled my calendar with things that I felt were productive to help me accomplish my goals or things that will help me in my relationships, right? So like my calendar is filled with things that help me accomplish my goals or time with friends and family. That's all I really want to do is make money, spend time with my friends and family. I don't really want to do anything else. When I filled the time with that, there was like, I didn't have to deliberately quit my bad habits. There was no time for them. What else happened is the days seemed more fun and more fulfilling because I was going hard each day, accomplishing things, and I was on a schedule and I feel like my life had more meaning. If you're out here freestyling your days, man, there's no wonder you out here doing all the shit you want to stop doing. Idle hands are the devil's workshop. So when I have my calendar, I make sure there's no white space in there. Every hour is accounted for because white space, that's where the devil lives. And if you leave enough white space, man, next thing you know, you're going to be getting high, smoking dope, fucking hookers. I know you. And number 10, don't be negative. And when I say don't be negative, I don't mean be positive. It's very different. If you can't be positive, then just be neutral. I never say anything negative. There's a part of your brain called the reticular activating system. And it decides what you're going to focus on and what you're going to see. It's kind of like, you know, when one of your friends or you or one of your friends, one of the homies gets a new car, you start seeing that car everywhere. Brother, you're not Professor Xavier. You're not Gene Ray or any of the X-Men. You're just a guy. What happened, you didn't attract that car. The car was already there. You just didn't notice it. There's so many sights, sounds, colors in the world. If you paid attention to all of it simultaneously, you would go crazy. It's too much stimuli. Your reticular activation system is the part of your brain that rests at your brainstem. It filters everything out. It only lets you see what's important. And that's why you didn't see the car before, but now you see it all the time once it's been brought to your attention. Let's say you're being negative or you're saying negative things about yourself or you're around negative people and they're always talking about their problems. You're going to see more of it. So I'm not telling you to be positive. I'm telling you don't be negative. I never say anything about myself that I don't want to become true. If needing to make some money is a priority for you, I got something to help. Over the last eight years, I've taught about 15,000 people how to grow successful online fitness businesses. That's how I made my first million. I got a free ebook that will show you how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. Show you how to use AI to actually grow your following. Show you how to use AI to actually get more sales, get more clients and show you how to train your clients with AI so they get great results. The link is in the description. Download that now. All right. We'll see you next time.