 I want to talk to you about the 10 things that will f*** around, ruminin, Senin. These are the things you want to avoid. But if you do them, you can pretty much count on failure. Or at the very least, it will provide you ample opportunities for hardships. You want to avoid these at all costs. Number one, you want to avoid the 3 Bs. Booz, Betts, and Babes. I learned this when I was in college. And I met this dude. He became a mentor to me. He owned a bus company. He went to the same college to me. Howard University. But he graduated a few years ago, started a bus company. He was making mad money. He told me to avoid the three B's. When he said booze, he said all types of recreational drugs, not just alcohol. It needed to be three B's. So alcohol, substance abuse, all these things. I've seen these things really take men down. You want to stay away from recreational drugs for a number of reasons. One, they can f*** with your brain. This is brain scans of people who do different drugs, right? But this is four years of marijuana use, right? This is four years of opiates. This is four years of cocaine. This is alcohol. This is meth. And this is what a healthy brain looks like under these brain scans. Like it really f***s with your brain health and it can really damage you. And also these things are addictive. They cost money. And I've seen people do a lot of wild s*** to get more drugs. Don't ask me how I know. But I know some people who claim that they can do cocaine recreationally. But if you look at their dealer's missed calls, it doesn't seem to be the case. You want to say from recreational drugs, performance enhancing drugs, I'm all for that. So that's booze, but also alcohol even. Even alcohol. Like I haven't had a drink in 11 years. And I quit all recreational drugs about 11 years ago. My life has been better as a result. I've made way more money. I'm happier. I have better relationships. More energy. I'm 43 right now. People say that I look a little younger than 43. Everybody I know who looks really, really young for their age, all of them never smoke or drink. That's number one. Then he said bets. Gambling. I have intimate relationship with this because my dad was really into gambling. I've told this story before, but it bears repeating. I grew up on the south side of Chicago and we were like super poor. One of my very first memories is my mom was taking me to preschool. 5.30 a.m. She's waking me at 5.30 a.m. We'd walk the cold Chicago streets to preschool and then she'd get on the bus. And one day we got robbed at fucking gunpoint. That's the kind of poverty we was living. I was in a neighborhood where they were robbing toddlers at gunpoint first thing in the morning. That's because we didn't have a car, right? My dad was hustling. He had his business. He was trying to figure it out. That's working really hard. And he didn't really figure it out until I was in high school. I got sent away to military school because I got in a little bit, a little bit of trouble. Fucking fights, skipping class, shootouts, you know, normal kid stuff. And they sent me away to military school. When I was in military school, my dad's business kind of started to take off and it started to take off in a major way. By the time I graduated military school, he was making three million dollars per year. And that's in the year 2000. Right. So adjusted for inflation. That's about eight million dollars in today's money. And I didn't experience any of it because I was away at military school. And then right after that, I went away to college. So I was gone the whole time. And by the time I graduated from college, he had lost all the money. Why did that happen? Because once he started getting rich, one of the things he started doing was gambling. Gambling was something that he started to indulge in. They had just legalized riverboat gambling in Indiana. And if you live on the south side of Chicago, you're like super close to Indiana. You can just drive there. He was spending a lot of time in Indiana gambling. And he ended up losing all his money, business, he lost everything in a minute and killed himself after. Had he not been gambling, I'd probably still have a dad. It's super addictive. It's super addictive. He didn't drink or smoke or nothing, but he loved to gamble. So this motherfucker worked like 16 years on his business, probably more than that because he had his business before I was born. So almost 20 years he worked on his business, finally became successful and lost it all to gambling. You want to stay away from that shit, man. That shit is a slippery slope. It's super addictive. It's way more addictive than you think. And we had to start over and, you know, whatever. I had to get rich, man, so we can get back to the mountaintop. That's number two. Stay away from bets. And then the third one is babes. This is what my OG told me. Stay away from babes. When he met babes, he met like women who would like fuck your shit up and having babies young. Like I know a lot of people who had a lot of potential, but they had a bunch of kids when they were younger. And then they spent all this time like taking care of the kids and before they were ready. And those kids were a financial burden, right? Like if you have kids before you're financially ready, they're going to be a burden. If you're not planning them, it's kind of reckless. I've seen it fuck up a lot of people shit having babies. The reason I never had no unplanned pregnancies is because I had a strategy. This is OG unk advice. Wear a condom and pull out. If you pull out while wearing a condom, it's a very low likelihood you're going to get a chick pregnant on accident. Like it's super low. If you do end up getting a chick pregnant after you pull out with a condom on, that's basically immaculate conception. That's a little baby Jesus. That little guy's supposed to be here. He's going to save us all. That's the second comment. He's fulfilling the prophecies of revelations is what he's doing. Wear a condom and pull out. Then there's also plan B before I learned the condom pullout strategy. You know, plan B was always the option as well. I used to make a joke that the B stood for Brandon. Some of y'all that's plan A. And then you always got plan C. That one stands for Carter. Pull out with the condom on. I'm telling you that 78 to 80% effectiveness is a study done by Planned Parenthood. Now, if you put that with a condom, which is like 92% effective, you do both of them together. That is 170% effectiveness. The next thing that is holding you back. Number four, it would be excessive complaining. People who complain typically have bad luck. They don't complain because they have bad luck. They have bad luck because they're complaining. I've talked about this before. I've talked about it ad nauseum, but there's a part of your brain called the reticular activating system. It decides what you see, right? There's too many sounds, sights, and textures and things that can affect our senses going on simultaneously. And then our brains can't pay attention to everything at once. So your reticular activation system decides what you should focus on. You've seen this before. Like when you or one of the homies gets a new car, you start seeing that car everywhere. Again, you didn't attract it. The car was there the whole time. You just never noticed it because it wasn't important to you. So your reticular activation system didn't allow you to see it. And we can test this out right now. Look at my screen. Notice how much stuff is blue. Now close your eyes. Keep them closed. Keep them closed. And tell me what was yellow, right? You looked at it. Now open your eyes. These books over here was yellow. There's some books. The spine of some of these books are yellow. But yeah, you didn't even notice it, right? Because it wasn't important. Now you see the yellow. You can't unsee the yellow. That's how your reticular activation system works. So now let me tell you something. If you get a new car and then you start seeing it everywhere, what happens when you start talking about your problems? Yeah, you start seeing it everywhere. Your brain is going to show you your problems. Even though there might be paths, ways for you to get out of it. It might be paths, ways for you to succeed. You just won't see them because you weren't focused on that. Just the way you weren't focused on the yellow so you couldn't even notice what it was. It's the exact same shit. Never complain. And if something's going wrong in your life or if you have things you want to fix, we don't say, Oh man, I ain't got enough money, man. I'm broke. I'm struggling. No, no, no. You say, man, I need to figure out how to get more money. They mean the same thing. Both of them are true. But who would you bet on? Would you bet on the guy who's saying, man, I ain't got no money? Or the guy saying, I need to figure out how to get more money. Who would you put your money on? I told you not to gamble though, so don't do it. But if you had to, who would you pick? Right? You'd pick the other one. It'd be a better bet. This is very important. I run the risk of sounding like one of these hoes who burn sages and collect rocks reading horoscopes and shit. There's neuroscience behind this. Whatever you focus on, you're going to see more of it. I'm very careful about the language I use. You know, if I need more energy to do something, but I don't have it, I don't say, oh, I'm tired. I say, yo, I got to get more energy so I can make this happen. And then my brain will find ways to get more energy. What did Henry Ford say? Whether you believe you can or you can't, you're right. And he made the model T, so you know what's up. Number five, quitting too early. I see this all the time. People try to do something or they want to develop a new skill or build a business or accomplish anything. And they might try it a few times and then they give up and say, oh, man, I'm just not good at that. Or that's not for me or I didn't like it or whatever. That's bullshit. Because if you're doing something new, you shouldn't be good at it. Sometimes you'll get lucky, right? Sometimes there are people who have like certain innate talents and proclivities and they can excel in certain things without a lot of practice. But within reason, you can get good at anything with enough practice. And instead of thinking I'm not good at it, even saying something is hard to say, oh, I haven't practiced this enough because that's the truth. There's something called the skill acquisition matrix. We've all heard that it takes 10,000 hours to get really good at something. This was popularized by Malcolm Gladwell in his book Outlife. It takes 10,000 hours to be world class at something. Not good, but world class at something. But typically you don't need to be one of the best in the world at something. I think that there's a spectrum and it's all based off how much time you spend doing something. So if you do something for 100 hours, usually not bad. Not good, but not bad. And there's a difference between good and not bad. We won't laugh at you after 100 hours. And this goes for anything. Any of you guys who've ever played an instrument, you know that when you pick up the instrument and you practice for an hour a day for about three months, which is around 100 days, 90, 100 days, you will be not bad. If you pick up the guitar, you'll be able to play a song or two, maybe some open chords. You know, you ain't gonna be Jimi Hendrix, right? But you'll be able to, you know, do a little something after 100 hours. Now, 1,000 hours makes you good. This guy's good. Maybe not good where like you do this shit and then bitches start fighting to suck your dick. You know, you're not gonna be that good, right? But you'll be like, oh, this guy's good. Now, 2,000 hours makes you really good. Like, you'll probably be better than almost everybody that you meet with 2,000 hours or something. 5,000 hours makes you amazing. This is when jaw dropping shit. This is when people won't believe it's real. Like, they can't believe you did it. You know, they'll just think you're lucky. 10,000 hours, one of the best. 20,000 hours makes you one of the best ever. And I ran this by some people who were like champions in the field. My boy, Derek Moneyberg, he trains with like a lot of like UFC championship champions. He's like super rich, so when he wanted to get into Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, he started training with like some of the masters. And one of them was Hoist Gracie. I was at Moneyberg's crib one day training with Hoist Gracie. And I ran this by him. I was like, man, how many hours you think you spent practicing Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu? It was like more than 20,000 hours, which is why he's the father of Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, right? It makes you one of the best ever. But like to get rich, you probably don't even need 10,000 hours or 20,000 hours. You don't need to be one of the best ever to get rich, right? 20,000 hours motherfuckers are making statues about you, man. Motherfuckers are writing about you. You in the history books. Like people will study you. You probably don't need to be that good to get rich. Instead of thinking, oh, this is hard or I'm not good at this, just look at it by how many hours you spent on it. When I want to get good at something, I track how many hours I spend practicing that skill. Not reading about it, practicing the skill. Learning and practicing are two different things. I decide what skill level I want to obtain and then I plan it out. So, okay. So you can get to 100 hours, right? You can get to not bad in three months if you spend an hour a day, right? Two hours a day, you get there in about just under two months. Three hours a day, you get to, you know, not bad in a month. Four hours a day in like less than a month. You'll see some of these numbers. I'm rounding in these numbers. So if you're a fucking math whiz or an Asian, right? Don't fact check me on this shit. These numbers are, I'm rounding. Like if you want to get good at something, an hour a day is going to take you like, like over two and a half years to get good. You need a thousand hours, right? So that's what I'm saying. I think people really underestimate how much time it takes to get good at something. A thousand hours it takes to get like good, good, you know? And most of y'all haven't spent that much time at anything and you wonder why you're not good, but it's okay. If you spend two hours a day, you can get there under a year and a half. If you spend three hours a day, you can get there in a year. Four hours a day, you get there in eight, eight months. That's why Kobe, he was practicing like four or five hours a day, right? So he's really like getting hours under his belt. That's why he's one of the greats. 2,000 hours a day, you want to be on some next level shit. Well, an hour a day is going to take you five years to get really good. And this is every day. This is weekends, your birthday, Christmas. This is every day. So if you're taking days off, you got to extend your time horizon. Two hours a day, you can get really good in about two and a half years, a little over now. Three hours a day, you can get really good in two years. Four hours a day, you can get really good in about a year and a half, a little less than that, right? Now, let's say you want to be amazing at this thing, like fucking amazing, jaw dropping, panty dropping levels of skill. What's going to take? It's going to take 13 years at an hour a day. Two hours a day is going to take almost seven years. Three hours a day is going to take four years. Four hours a day is going to take 3.5 years. We can just keep going. 1,000 hours, if you want that 10,000 hours, that one of the best alive, 27 years at an hour a day, right? A little over 13 years at two hours a day. Three hours a day is going to take nine years. Four hours a day is going to take you 6.8. This is why in Malcolm Gladwell's book, he said that that 10,000 hours, it takes most people about 10 years to get there. Because regular people take days off, fucking, they go on vacations, shit like that, right? So it takes about 10 years for someone to be like one of the best ever. And that's averaging like a lot of hours per day, you know? And if you want to be a legend, like a legit legend, even at four hours a day, it's going to take you 13 years, right? You got an advantage if you start young. Now, here's the thing. Some of y'all may look at this and get discouraged, but I get encouraged by that because, you know, every time I want to learn a new skill, I get to this point where I always know this where I feel like, fuck, I don't know if I'm going to get this. You guys have probably been there and this is probably where most of you guys quit. I don't feel like I'm going to get it. But if you keep powering through, you kind of have a breakthrough. And what helps me with this is I just look at, okay, how much time have I spent on this? Oh, and I'm like, oh, I'm not even supposed to be good yet. No wonder. That encourages me. So instead of the discouragement, I'm like, okay, I've only spent like, you know, fucking 20 hours practicing this shit. I'm not supposed to be good yet. But a lot of you guys will try something you won't even put in the 20 hours. You might try something once and be like, oh man, this ain't for me. You'll look for something that's easier for you. Within reason, I don't think there's anything you can't get good at with a thousand hours. Quantum physics, guitar, fucking surgery. I can't think of a skill that you can't be good at with a thousand hours. Another thing that was fucked the whole game up. Number six is engaging in fucking debates with strangers. When people do it online, I think it's so fucking silly. Even when I see it on like YouTube, like Jubilee and all this shit, like what are we doing? Like why are we just arguing with strangers? I know why Jubilee does it, right? Because it's good entertainment for people, right? But you should not be in the motherfuckers comments arguing about shit with strangers. Who gives a fuck? It's a waste of time. But I've seen it derail people's whole days or at least whole afternoons. So they waste hours debating with strangers over bullshit. And it's happened to me. I have a history of violence and I'm not used to people talking to me fucking crazy. And when I first started social media, I was ready to like find motherfuckers and fight them. You know, like I invited people to fight. I'm a little more mature right now. Most of the time you can still, I'm still subject to being caught at a bad mood where I might flip out and challenge you to a duel. But for the most part, man, yo, you don't want to fucking engage with these motherfuckers. They fucking strangers. Who cares what they think, man? Number seven, expecting a politician to fix your fucking life. That's mental disability type shit. I can't say the word I really want to say because I get demonetized. Listen, politicians, they are not here to fucking save you and make your job or make your life better. They might do something to help you. Like Trump lowered my taxes. Right. You know, whatever. You know, the next Democrat is going to be another Democratic president at some point. And he's going to raise him. And shit happens. Your job is to win no matter what. You live in first world country. And if you live in America, we almost never have wars here. Right. Right. If you live in another country, you might have to worry about the politics. Right. Because it might start a war or some shit, you know. But if you live in America, man, super rare to get a war here. What happens in your life is going to be 90 percent of it. It's going to be based off what you do. And it's not going to be based off who's in the White House or even who's in the Congress or in the Senate. I'm not saying you shouldn't care about it or you shouldn't vote. But I see people so fixated on the president. I've met people with like Trump signs in their backyards and wearing Trump hats. And that's fine. You know, you're allowed to do that, whatever. And then they'll be yelling at me about Trump. And I'll be like, name three senators. They don't even know what the fuck I'm talking about. Right. They just expect Trump to fix everything. Listen, man, fuck that shit. What's going to change your life is what you do, your performance. And whatever happens, whatever laws get put in place or whatever policies get put in place, your job is still to win under any circumstances. Right. Focus on what you can control and you can control a lot more than you think in your life. Right. The president can control what happens in a nation to a certain degree. But what happens in your life is going to be up to you, not who's in the White House, which brings us to number eight, which is adjacent to number seven. Focusing on things that you just can't control. There's a lot of things going on in the world. A lot of them are bad. A lot of them I wish would be different. I have very little say over what happens. There's very little I can do. I'll do what I can, but there's very little I can do. I think it's very important for you to focus on the things that are within your control. Ninety percent of your energy is going to be maybe ninety five percent. It's very difficult for one person to change the whole world, but you can definitely change your world. And you're the only one who's going to do it. Marky Marcus Aurelius in his book Meditations, he said, I'm paraphrasing, but he says something effective. Don't let your emotions be controlled by outside circumstances or other people. You have control over your mind and that's where you'll find true power. I'm super paraphrasing what Marky Mark said. It's very important, man. Just focus. Focus on what you can control. You can't control other people. You can't control outside circumstances. And here's the thing, man. There's a lot of things that are going to happen that are bad, even in your life. In fact, your next tragedy is probably around the corner. And your job is to move through those in a way where you can still succeed year after year and still come up. And you'll have some bad years. You'll have some bad weeks, some bad months. Right. But just focus on the end goal and just keep doing what you can do. What's in your control. Do not be out here tripping over some other shit, which brings me to number nine. What fucks people up is they never protect the downside. What I mean by that is you always want to have plans and contingency plans for like worst case scenario. Because there's going to be tragedies in your life. There's going to be a lot of good things to happen, but there's also going to be a series of unfortunate events. Everyone you know is going to die. There's going to be disasters, natural disasters. There's going to be economic disasters. You need to prepare for these things in advance. A lot of that comes down to, you know, stacking as much money as possible. I can't think of a problem that you can't fix or improve or at least improve with enough money. You want to prepare for these things in advance. You want to have money on the sidelines. And a lot of times you'll be able to take advantage of opportunities if it's economic things. Right. But there's going to be natural disasters. You know, I live in Florida, man. There's going to be some hurricanes. Shit is going to happen. When I lived in New York, man, we had fucking hurricanes in New York. If you live in California, there's going to be some earthquakes. Right. You think the last one was the last one? No, man. That's just going to keep happening. Like you always got to be prepared. That's not only being prepared financially, but being prepared physically. You want to take care of your health. You know, if you are in better shape, you'll be better equipped to handle it. If there's some violence going on, you want to be like strong enough and or fast enough to either defuse the situation or take evasive action. All right. But if you all fat, we're going to be able to run. Right. If there's a bear chasing us, man, I even got to outrun the bear. I just got to outrun. I run you. You know what I mean? Like you need to be prepared, which brings me to number 10. Biggest mistake. I see people make one of the biggest mistake. It's not prioritizing making money. I see people saying shit like, oh, money's not important. I just want to be happy. And that's straight up cope. Right. Because money's not supposed to make you happy. Right. Like money and happiness. They're two different things. Happiness is emotion. Financial abundance is a condition. You can be happy if you're poor. You can be happy if you're rich. I'd rather be happy and rich. Like you don't get money to be happy. You get money to take care of your family. You get money to prepare for disasters. You get money so you can take advantage of opportunities. You get money so you can live more comfortably. You get money so you can pass it down to your children so they have better lives so that you can give them the best education. Right. Happiness ain't got nothing to do with that. Like you can do it to be happy if you want. Right. But I don't think you should get money to be happy. I think you should be happy and make money. Your emotions are your responsibility, not inanimate objects like money. When somebody says, man, money won't make you happy. I'm like, yeah, it's not supposed to. That's as ridiculous as if somebody said, man, I want to buy a cat. And I say, yo, the cat won't cook you breakfast. I'm like, what the fuck? They got nothing to do with each other. Right. That's how I feel when I hear you guys say money won't make you happy. They're two different subjects. Financial abundance and happiness are two different subjects. You need to prioritize financial abundance because it's going to make your life easier. It will help you prepare for disasters that are going to come. You're going to experience a lot of disasters. It'll help you take advantage of opportunities and help you provide for your family, provide the best resources for your children, put them in a better position to succeed. You've got to take it super seriously. Don't let people minimize the importance of financial success. If you want some help with that, I got a free ebook that'll show you how to make money the way I made my first million dollars as an online trainer. And then I've helped other people build successful online fitness business to about 15,000 people. And I got a free ebook called the seven day AI action plan for online trainers. And it's going to really show you how to utilize AI in a way where you can build your personal training business more rapidly. Are you going to be leveraging new technology? And that's a free ebook. The link is in the description. Right. The link is in the description. Bye.