 in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention in attention attention difference. If you do that over a long enough period of time, you will get rich. For example, if you just put extra $2,000 a month in something simple like S&P 500 index fund, something like VOO, which has an annual average return of about 10% a year. If you put $2,000 a month in there for 20 years, so let's say you're 23 right now, you started doing that. By the time you're my age, with compound interest, you'd have $1.3 million. It's 20 years to become a millionaire, but you will become a millionaire. Anyone can do it. Now, if you want to make money faster, you have to either invest more money and or pick an investment vehicle that will give you higher returns and higher dividends. The three things you can invest in are the stock market or crypto, real estate, or your own business. Your own business will give you the highest returns, but it's also the biggest risk. What you want to do is make more money you spend and invest a difference. That may mean right now, what you want to do is you want to track all your spending. You can use something like Monarch.com. They do not sponsor this. We need to reach out for them. I've seen they sponsor other people's shit, and we just shouting them out for free. I'm about to come collect. Don't have me show up at the office. Because the way I'm looking at it, y'all owe me about $7, $8 million from all the shout outs I gave y'all. Anyway, Monarch.com, you can hook all your accounts to it, and you track your spending. And once you start seeing your spending, you can go back in time, like the last three months, and you see what your unnecessary spending is and cut that shit. Cut as much of it as possible. Maybe you're spending too much money going out. Maybe you need to cancel OnlyFans subscriptions. Some of y'all are going to save thousands of dollars a month just by canceling OnlyFans. Porn is free, bro. This should be enough free porn for you to do what you need to do. Motherfuckers out here paying for porn like it's the 90s. Y'all got all this free porn and you out here buying it. You don't know what it's like going into one of them porn stores, being all ashamed, hoping no one sees you come out of there, man. You got to run out like you just robbed a bank. You just squandering it. Cut the OnlyFans, bro, and invest that money. And then you might need to work more, right? So you can make more money than you spend. You need to get a second job, a weekend job, another part-time job. You can drive Uber on the weekends, right? Do whatever you need to do to make more money than you spend. So you got to lower your expenses and increase your income any way possible and invest the difference either in your own business, real estate, or crypto. The next thing you need to do, you want to get to the point where you can invest half of your income, right? Because again, remember, the way you get rich, make more money than you spend and the best of the difference. If you are investing half of your income, then you'll get rich faster. You may be thinking, man, I'm barely getting by. Hey, man, you need to make more money, motherfucker. That's what you need to do. You need to get another job. Let's say you're barely paying your bills right now and you work 40 hours a week, then you need to work 80 hours a week. This is what I did when I was in my twenties, man. It was during the recession of 08. I couldn't get a good job, even though I had a college degree, because unemployment was at 10%. It was the highest it had been since the depression. The global economy was collapsing. Lehman Brothers, all that other shit. It was a very difficult time to be alive on earth. And I just worked a bunch of jobs, man. I woke up at 4 a.m., trained people, showered at the gym, then I worked curating at the product store for eight hours. Then after that, I worked for a moving company. And then I was the weekend manager at a restaurant. And this was like two years of that shit. But guess what? I was saving half my income, saving and investing the rest. Guess what? I wasn't broke. No more. I outworked the recession, kept my expenses low, income high. And then I was able to start my first business. You know, my first business was online training, right? It was way more difficult back then. It's a lot easier now, especially because we have AI. If you want to know how you can grow your online business business using AI, I'm doing a live training on Sunday, March 1st, where I'll show you exactly how to use AI to grow your following, get more sales, more clients, and how to train your clients so they get great results. It's way easier with AI. And I'm going to break the whole shit down for you. 100% free is going to be live. The next thing you need to do is practice delayed gratification. I really believe that the ability to delay gratification is a sign of maturity. For example, if you ever run a baby, soon as that baby gets hungry, it's going to start crying, whining, right? That's the only way it can communicate. You know, then toddlers, you're trying to teach them to chill out, man. We get it when we get home or you can get that toy later, or we can't buy all the toys or whatever the case may be. As you get older, you're supposed to be able to delay gratification more. If you can't do that, you need to grow the fuck up. It's a sign of immaturity. You're acting like a child. So you want to delay gratification. And a lot of that is going to come down to the first thing I said, you know, if you can delay gratification, that's going to allow you to make more money than you spend and invest the difference instead of just spending the difference, right? Back when we was hunter gatherers or shit, the first motherfucker to ball was a motherfucker who found some seeds and said, you know what? I could eat these seeds today or I can plant these seeds and then I'll be able to eat off these trees forever. Some other motherfuckers was looking at him like, look at this nigga, man, putting the seeds in the dirt. Dumb ass nigga, man. They was laughing at him. He's like, look at this dumb ass nigga burying his seeds. But guess what? Joke's on them because down the line, this motherfucker had a whole orchard of fruits and shit and he didn't have to fucking be a nomad anymore. Instead of eating all the motherfucking animals, he started domesticating them bitches. That motherfucker was the first baller. He started civilization. Shout out to that brother. You need to be more like him. All right. Don't eat the motherfucking seeds. The next thing I would do if I was in my twenties or thirties right now, I would invest in myself heavily. It's like the homie Ty Lopez said, the more you earn, the more you sperm or something like that. That's why I like, like I've read these books. I've read more books and I have more than this in storage. That's not even counting with some of my Kindle. You know, there's been years I spent like over six figures on my education with his mentors, mastermind groups, things of that nature, because sometimes I'll read something or learn something and then it can change my whole business. You know, you always want to stay abreast of the new shit. You always want to be learning the new things because it's never over. You can never learn too much. Everybody I know who's super successful, who's not an athlete or entertainer. Most of them read pretty prolifically. It's very rare. I meet somebody who's rich, who doesn't read. I haven't seen many examples of it. You want to always keep learning. Even after school, always be reading, studying, joining masterminds. I still buy people's courses. I remember when TikTok came out, I bought some kids TikTok ads course. It wasn't very good, but I learned the basics of TikTok ads and I made millions with this motherfucking kids bullshit course he put together, but I'm always learning. I'm not, I ain't got no pride about it. Next thing you need to do is learn how to focus deep work without your phone. When I'm putting in deep work and I'm planning something, I'm working on a project. I make sure I put my phone away because it's a big distraction. Your ability to sit down and focus for hours is what's going to separate you from everyone else. I mean, I know a lot of people work on their phone, but a lot of times you got to put in some deep work. So there's a great book called Deep Work by Cal Newport. That book like really changed things for me. I started making way more money once I read that book because it was just all about learning how to focus and have uninterrupted work. If you can do that, you'll be way more productive in less time than most people. But speaking of the phone, you need to learn how to use your phone as a tool and not just as entertainment. A lot of y'all just use your phone as a GPS slash goon device, a goon entertainment system, but you want to use it for productivity, whether it's building your social media, using social media as a creator instead of a consumer, you know, researching or studying, you want to use it as a tool to help accelerate your goals. It can be very powerful, especially now that we got AI, you know, you got Gemini, Chad, GBT, unlimited knowledge at your fingertips. You need to be using this to learn. You need to be using it to study. You need to be using this to go accomplish your goals. It's very important. Not using it as an entertainment goon device. Another thing I would do, I didn't have this problem in my twenties because we really have social media like this, but yo, you guys got to stop mindless scrolling on the internet, man. That shit will fuck with you. Sometimes people tell me, man, I ain't got enough time, man. How do you get enough time? How do you get more done? And if I'm in person, I always say, man, pull up your screen time. And I see how much time they spend on TikTok, Instagram, and all that. I'm like, bro, you got four hours a day to be on this shit, but you ain't got time to work on your business. And they're always like, yeah. Matter of fact, do it right now. Do right now. Look at the screen time on your phone. You tell me if you got some more time to invest. It's super important, man. Stop fucking bullshit scrolling. Schedule your days the night before. I been talking about this for a decade, at least. A cheat code in life is to plan every hour of every day in your calendar. And you should do it the night before. This way your day is choreographed. You can't be just freestyling your days, right? You got to choreograph. And what's two things going to happen when you start scheduling every hour of every day in your calendar. One, you're going to get way more done. You don't know how much potential you have. You haven't began to bring a fraction of your potential to the service until you start planning every hour, every day in your calendar. Here's what my calendar looks like. Every hour is accounted for. I'm not out here fucking around. I'm not out here freestyling my days, hoping shit happens. No, you're going to get way more done. And you can also, you can plan your recreation. You can plan time with your girlfriend, your family, your boyfriend, if that's what you went to. You know what I'm saying? No diddy. But if you want a diddy, that's your thing, you know? Next rule is to do something hard every day. Pause. A lot of people, you know, they let fear or challenges keep them in like a kind of a bondage, right? But if you start doing difficult things every day, it'll be easier to do things that are more difficult over time. And your tolerance for difficulty will increase and you'll be more resilient and tough and you'll be more willing to take on even bigger challenges. So every day, man, you got to challenge yourself in some capacity. Another thing I would do, I would work out every day. This is what I've done. I work out every day. Some people say, oh, what about rest days? Well, you don't have to live weights every day, but even days I don't lift weights, I'm doing some sort of cardio. Even if it's just running around with my son, you know, we might get on the bikes and we ride around the neighborhood. We might ride out, you know, or take my niece and nephews to the trampoline park or to amusement park or something like that. I get active with them. You know, I ain't out here just one of them fat dads who sit around. Next thing I would do, track your calories and macros, man. All your fitness goals would be fucking easy to accomplish if you track your calories and macros. I started testosterone to therapy right before I turned 40. You know, every guy's natural testosterone shots are drop at age 30. Mine was where it was supposed to be for a guy who's almost 40. That's kind of low. It was like 500. But in my twenties, that shit was like a thousand. So I just wanted it to be like I was in my twenties. So that's where my testosterone is now. But here's the thing. Before I started taking TRT, people thought I was on steroids. People made videos about it, YouTube videos about it. Nah, man, I just fucking work out every day for almost two decades since I was 17. And I tracked my calories and my macros, everything I ate for like over 15 years, even before we had smartphones. There's videos I have on YouTube, right? You know, when, before my fitness pal was out, I'll keep a little journal with me, a food journal, a food log. I'm telling you, if you track your macros every day for a significant amount of times and you hit those numbers, I promise you, you do that shit for a decade, everybody is going to think you're on roids. A cheat code would be the next tip to eat the same meals most of the day. Most of the people I know who are in like phenomenal shape. They almost eat the same thing almost every day. You know, they'll, they'll change if they go out or something, but they have like their staple foods and they'll get away from it when they go out or they go somewhere. It's not like rigid like that, but for the most part, they eat the same things over and over again. The next thing I would do, I would really up my caffeine dosage. Okay. This is not advice. You don't take as much as me, but since I was like a teenager, I've been taking like a thousand milligrams of caffeine a day, even not just to work out, but sometimes just to work. Caffeine is a potent nootropic and it makes work more fun and enjoyable because it affects your dopamine receptors in a positive way. You don't have to take as much as me. I took a thousand milligrams a day. My heart health is perfect. Everybody's different though. Some people die if they eat a peanut, but I've had EKG recently, blood work, everything's perfect. Cardiovascular system, perfect. Heart health, perfect. Your mileage may vary, but you know, Andrew Huberman, my favorite white science man, he was on Theo Vaughn's podcast. He said he takes 800 milligrams of caffeine per day. Let's up your caffeine dosage, man. You'll get more work done and the work will be more fun. The next thing I would do is what I did read for at least an hour every day. If you read for an hour every day in your field, after a few years, you will know more about that topic than almost everyone. You will literally become an expert in your field, just an hour a day of reading. And now things are moving so fast that now you need at least some reading every day just to fucking keep up. And reading is better than YouTube videos. Reading is better than podcasts. And the reason why is because it's curated knowledge. Like people took time to write these books and they're experts. Podcast motherfuckers are freestyling. YouTube videos, motherfuckers will say anything on YouTube to get the views. I'm going to be real with you. I know. Ask me how I know. Readers are leaders. Next thing you need to do is learn sales. No matter what business you're in, no matter, even if you just have a really learned sales, sales will help you in so many aspects of life. It's going to help you in your dating life. It'll help you with your, with your kids, right? Sometimes I have to sell my son on shit. I could just tell the motherfucker to do something, right? Instead of forcing him to sell him on it. And then he's excited to do it. It makes it easier for me to force him to do things. I sell him, right? It just makes your whole life easier. And my dad told me this a long time ago. If you learn sales, you'll never go broke. Every organization needs good salespeople. If you are a good salesperson, you'll always find work. In fact, people will compete to hire you. If you're really good at sales, like the best salespeople I know, never have to worry about money. Never have to worry about employment, learn sales. And if you have your own business, you definitely need to learn sales because if you're not making sales, you don't have a business. You got a hobby. Next thing you need to do is learn marketing, learn marketing, especially if you don't have your own business. So marketing is sales to many and it's, it's different, right? Cause you're not always going for conversions when you do marketing, marketing. A lot of times it's awareness and then the sales bring it home, right? But you need to learn how to market yourself, marketing your products, your service. If you're good at marketing, you could sell a bad product and still be all right. I'm not saying you should do that, but I've seen it happen. Remember Beats by Dre before Apple bought that company, those headphones sucked. They were bad. Somebody like who's done audio engineering, they just weren't very good headphones, but when Apple bought them, they're good now, right? But at the time they suck, but they were, they sold so much because they had good wet marketing. Apple computers weren't even fucking great up until the M1 chip came out. They were running on the same processors as PCs. They were charging people like twice as much and most of buying it. Cause the marketing was so good. Now there's some advantages to Apple with Apple Silicon, but you get what I'm saying? Marketing solves a lot of problems with business, being really good at marketing and being good at sales takes it to the next level. Next rule you need to follow. M O B. If you're a man, that stands for money over bitches. If you're a woman that stands for money over boys. That's what I'm gonna be telling my niece when she gets older, you know, man, you can survive without a relationship. Like you can live life sucks, but you can live without a relationship. You can live without having sex with somebody the way the world set up. You can not live without money. Like you can't stay alive. You know, food, shelter, cause money, clean water, cause money, but you can survive without a relationship. And if you got enough money is either get another relationship. One of my boys, man, his girl just left him one day. A month later, he was engaged to another better looking chip, right? He's super rich in the Bible. Open up your Bibles to Ecclesiastes 10, 19. It says a feast is made for Mary drink is made for laughter, but money solves all things. We're not gonna argue with the Lord. Are we money over bitches, man. And if you're a girl money, money over boys, women come and go relationships come and go, but you cannot live without money. Home next tip. I wouldn't take advice or criticism from people who I wouldn't trade places with. You get to say if somebody hasn't accomplished what you want to accomplish, why would you take advice for them? But also remember, why would you care about their criticism? They're not where you want to be. So who gives a fuck? A lot of people are worried about what other people want to think, man. But if you wouldn't trade places with them, man, fuck that shit. And definitely don't take advice from them. How are they going to tell you? You wouldn't hire a home to success coach. You wouldn't hire a fat personal trainer. You wouldn't hire a plastic surgeon with an ugly wife. Like, motherfucker, why can't you fix this bitch? If you want to do something, you should take advice from someone who's done it. If you want to learn to grow your online fitness business, I was one of the first people to have successful online fitness business. I was in the class people who started online training and, you know, one of the first people to do online training like 2010. And I've taught over 15,000 people to grow successful online fitness businesses. I'm doing a free class, free training on March 1st, Sunday at 2 PM, where I'll show you exactly how to grow your online fitness business using AI. I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually grow your following. I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually get more leads and more clients. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so they get amazing results. Hit the link in the description and sign up for that. You don't want to miss it. All right, let's get it.