Yo, what up? What up? It's your man be Brandon Carter about to do three books, three new book reviews. You know, I do that from time to time. I'm going give y'all three books that uh I think are really good or three books that have impacted my my life. I've read hundreds of books. I'm certified speed reader. Uh so yeah, here are three books that I feel will make you a stronger individual. The first one is a is actually it's not a diet book, but it's kind of about nutrition, but it's uh it's called diet cults. Actually, like it's pretty funny. Uh the guy he talks about like just a lot of different uh schools of thought that and how they're like some of them are a bit ridiculous. or he talked about like uh a lot of uh things that maybe people consider bad but he did a lot of research and went into the science about how these things are not necessarily so harmful like caffeine for instance he talked about how there's how sugar is beneficial in some in some uh capacity especially for athletic performance he's actually a marathon runner himself I don't agree with everything he says in this book right I defin there's a lot of stuff I disagree with but here's the thing like listen I don't have to agree with every part of of a book to think it's a good book. That's too high of a criteria. That's like having to agree with uh everything a person thinks to to think it's he's a good person. He or she's a good person. It's like no, man. Like it's not that's too high of a requirement, you know, for anything, you know? So, like, yeah, there's a lot of [\h__\h] that I I didn't agree with. And that's cool, man. You know, I do that with all books, you know, like might not as long as you can take one or two things from each book, then it was worth it. Anyway, Diet Cults, I I recommend you reading it. is it's a good book. You know, you're not going to agree with everything. Some of the shoes is going to make you mad, especially if you like the paleo diet. That's probably the funniest chapter, but it's good to get some other opinion. Say what up to George, everyone. Follow George on Instagram. Mix Poppy. He's doing his thing. All right. So anyway, here's another book I on sales that I read when I was I I read this when I was a sophomore in college. I had just finished a sales internship with uh Avid Laboratories over the summer and I was going to work with them again the next summer. So before I read before that that summer uh the second summer internship started, I read his book. Man, it's one of the best sales books you'll read. It's it reads almost like a novel a little bit because he tells a story about how he was a [\h__\h] loser. a [\h__\h] failure loser. And he he this is basically how he got what it says, man. How he raised how he raised himself from failure to success and selling and he was um he used selling being a salesman as this tool to just become a successful person. So like this is even if you don't want to be a salesman, this is probably a good book to read just like if you're at a low point, man. If you're just like at the if if the pendulum is on the downswing in your life, if you're going through one of those troubles and times, man, we all go through them. We all go through them. It's good to hear stories about people who fought through those circumstances. And this is one of them. And you're also going to get some great sales techniques and tactics if you are interested in sales. Um, and you should be though, man. No matter what job, even you don't want to work in sales, you're still gonna have to sell people. Like if you're at a even if you just work a regular uh salary job, you're still going to sell people on your ideas or like sometimes it's good to know sales so you're not sold too. Like see so people don't sell you [\h__\h] that you don't really want, right? Cuz you want to you want to be aware of the tactics. Same goes with marketing to you, you know. But anyway, this is a great book. Another one, this is a little off topic. This is uh writing better lyrics. Leon know I used to be signed to uh uh Sony Records as a as a rapper and and I've been making music since I was a kid man. I play guitar, drums and keyboard and uh uh all my life I kind of thought I was going to be a professional musician and I kind of changed my mind after uh I got dropped from Sony when they merged with BMG and uh I kind of like lost my desire to to to try to make money from music, right? That's a whole another story, but my desire was lost out of that experience. But I still was putting out music like for free, just giving it away. And it became more fun that way. And I came across this book though, man. I came across this book. Uh it was recommended to me by uh I started taking guitar lessons again cuz I just by somebody who was better than me and uh he was just teaching me some more advanced guitar techniques, you know, and uh he recommend he strongly recommended this book and it's amazing. Like [\h__\h] you you didn't even think of, you know, it doesn't matter if you're a rapper, if you're R&B singer, country singer, especially if you're a country singer. Uh, man, it's just so many like tactics and just things that it just I can't even explain you how much this is gonna make you a better writer. Like after I read this, man, I' I've written like I've written whole R&B albums for like uh for like uh different artists that I was working with like and and I I would produce the albums too and uh make all the beats and and I would write the lyrics, man. It was because I read this book, man. It's writing better lyrics. If you're in music in any capacity, whether you're a producer, a writer, artist, this is a mandatory read. And if you're not, then that's cool, too. You know, then, you know, it's not applicable to you, but it's a good book. Anyway, so those are three books that have impacted me. Um, maybe I'll put a link to some of my one of my songs. Everybody asks, that's all. I'll put a link in description or something. You can hear me spinning that real [\h__\h] That real kitten [\h__\h] That real It's that real cat music. Fam, say goodbye to everyone. George