Summer's fast approaching and some of you guys are fat as you going to be swimming at the pool or the beach with your goddamn shirt on cuz you don't want people to see them titties you got. Let's fix that today. In this video, I will break down three best ways to get ripped this summer. How ripped you will get will depend on how fat you are right now. If you a big whale mother, you may not get ripped by summer, but you can definitely lose a ton of weight between now and the summer and that's going to be great for you. But if you are just like a little fat, 10 20 pounds of fat and you want to get shredded, this is the best video you're ever going to watch on the subject. If you follow these steps, I promise you, you will get ripped this summer. And the last one is the most important one. Make sure you watch this video. If you can't watch a video about getting ripped, then you you are destined to just be a fat boy indefinitely. And it's only going to get worse. As you get older in order, you're going to get fatter and fatter. And then you're going to have to find another big fat mother mate with you. Then you're going to have kids with each other. And they gonna have childhood obesity. Kids gonna make fun of them cuz they fat. Then parent teacher conference. You and your fat ass wife going to show up there and the kids going to get made fun of cuz they got fat parents. Man, don't let that happen to you. I go to my son's school. Kids want to touch my muscles and and I say, "No, I'm not Drake." The first thing we need to do is you have to do the one thing that most people won't do. I hear mother tell me all the time, "Man, I've been trying to lose weight. I've been trying to get in shape. Nothing works. I've tried everything." No, [\h__\h] You ain't did the one thing that will work. You have to start tracking your calories. You have to track your calories and your macros. This [\h__\h] will work. I don't care if you're [\h__\h] paleo, vegan, carnivore, whatever. It's still calories in, calories out. To lose fat, you have to burn more calories than you consume. We need to track how many calories you consuming. Now, I'm going to show you exactly how to do that. But first, I want to show you this study. It was done by Duke University. And what they did was they had a bunch of fat boys track their calories for three months. They didn't give him no diet. They didn't tell them to do [\h__\h] snake diet, keto diet, nothing. They didn't even tell them to be in choric deficit. They gave them zero plan, no instructions. Just say, "Hey, fat ass, just [\h__\h] track what you eat instead of putting every anything in your mouth like a [\h__\h] The way you've been doing your whole life, fat boy." Guess what? After 3 months, on average, they lost 5 lbs. Right? Some lost more of but on average it was about 5 lbs. Now 5 lbs in 3 months if that was one of my clients I'd be disgusted with them. I like [\h__\h] you ain't even trying cuz cuz it doesn't sound that impressive until you remember they did not give them any [\h__\h] instructions. They had no plan. All they had to do was track their calories. If you want to improve at anything, all you had to do is start tracking it. And what happens is people become more mindful of what they eat and they start to actually see how many calories they're eating each day. My girlfriend, she started tracking her calories and she couldn't believe how many calories she was getting each day. I've seen this with tons of clients. They have no idea how many calories they're getting each day. They think they're eating healthy. I eat healthy. I eat good. I eat this. And then when we start actually tracking, they're eating way more calories than they think they are. You have to start tracking. For every pound of fat you want to lose, you have to burn 3500 calories. Let's put that into perspective. If you were to burn an extra 500 calories per day for 7 days a week, at the end of the seven days, that's going to equal 3500. You can lose a pound of fat a week. And you can take that up, right? If you put yourself in 1,000 calorie deficit every day, which is not extreme, you'll burn 2 lb, right? 2 lbs of fat per week is like normal. Totally fine. It's normal, right? You have to burn 7,000 calories in order to do that. If you're not tracking, you have no idea what you're doing. So, we need to start tracking both the calories we consume and we want to get an estimate of how many calories we're burning. The way we get an estimate of how many calories we burning is we have to wear we wear some sort of fitness tracker. I use the Aura ring to track my how many calories I burn each day, my total caloric expenditure per day. You can also do it with an Apple Watch, Fitbit, or Whoop, they're fine devices for that. Now, they're not 100% accurate, but it it will give us a good estimate. And then when you start tracking it, what you want to do is you want to start tracking your calories. And what I do is I use a a spreadsheet. Okay. So, how many calories should you get each day? Take your body weight in pounds. Multiply that by 10. That's it's aggressive, but that's how many calories you should get. Don't go over that. So, let's say you weigh 200 lb. Boom. You're trying to get ripped. Boom. All right. So, we're going to get 2,000 lb per day. 2,000 lb per day. Now, that's pro that's that's probably enough to get you in a deficit right there. But, we're going to take it up a notch later when I give you some more tips. Now, how many calories you going to burn? We're not We're not even going to get crazy aggressive, right? We're going to say 3,000, which is not like insane. You know what? Let's say let's say less. Let's say you a lazy [\h__\h] right? And you can if you have a Apple Watch, uh this this data will show up in your health app. If you have the Whoop, it's going to show up in the Whoop app. This total calories per day, not just calories while you working out. It's it's very important. Total calories. You got to wear it 24 hours a day. I never take my ring off. I wear it when I'm working out. I wear it I wear it in the gym. I wear it in the plane. I wear it when I'm when I'm having sex. So, it's always on. We run a 500 calorie deficit each day, right? Boom. 3500 calories. We should lose a pound of fat per week with that. Now, you can alter this by changing the variables, right? We're going to talk about how you can burn more calories per day later on in this, but this is the baseline. And the important thing is you track it, right? So, I have a spreadsheet like this. It's called the victory vision planner. The link is in the description where you can plan like all your goals and there's a habit tracker in there. And in the habit tracker section, there's a place where you can put your calories that you burn each day. So, that's step one, tracking your calories each day. Then two is we're going to increase the cardio. Before I get into the options of cardio, it's important you understand that cardio alone is not enough. The diet is more important than the cardio. I've helped people lose weight without doing any cardio. We just kept their calories low enough. However, you're trying to get as ripped as possible by summer. So, we're going to actually increase the cardio to make sure this happens. Right now, you have some options. If you don't have a lot of time, you can do what's called highintensity interval training or hit cardio. You you do short workouts, 15, 20 minutes, maybe even less. They're intervals, so you go you go you go super hard for for 30 seconds to a minute, rest for 30 seconds to a minute. Not rest, but then you go you light work for 30 seconds or a minute. If you want to know some good options on hit cardio workouts, you can check my YouTube. Just search Brandon Carter hit cardio, right? Matter of fact, you should try this. I challenge all of you guys to do this. So this this is this one right here. This is a 4minute workout, but it's so difficult. This meant we did this. We thought, "Yeah, we got this. We We came up with this workout because we're both trainers and it's so intense." By look at look what we're doing by the end. Look at this. By the end, is it over? We were [\h__\h] dying. I could probably do it now cuz I'm I'm more trained, but this is so difficult. This is the most difficult exercise workout I've ever seen. All right, try that one if you only got four minutes or you I have other 15-minute workouts, 25 minute workouts. tons of them and they they all have like millions of views. People love them. The beauty of HIT cardio is even though it's a short duration of training, you start burning more calories after it because your heart rate is elevated. So, you burn calories even after the workout. Now, I stopped doing this as much because now I'm old. I was 32 when I made that video. Right now, I'm 42 and the joints ain't the same. Father time is undefeated. So, now I do slow cardio. So, what I do is I'll just get on I like the elliptical machine, the exercise bike. I have several of those in the house or or just walking. But the cool thing about slower cardio is I can do it for longer and I can do other [\h__\h] while I'm doing it. So, I have a few desk bikes in the crib. So, it's a bike with a desk attached to it. I can work while I'm at the desk bike or dyke. While I'm on the dyke, I could actually be doing like slow cardio while I'm working. So, I can do other [\h__\h] If you're doing hit cardio, you're only doing hit cardio. That's where the trade-off is. The reason I like slow cardio cuz I can do it throughout the day. And I can do it for long periods of time and I can burn more calories throughout the day. You want to make sure you're burning more total calories throughout the day, not just when you're working out or not when you're in the gym. The reason why you want to do there's something called non exercise activity thermogenesis. But when I'm cutting, I'm always looking for additional ways to burn more calories throughout the day. Whether it's walking more, taking the stairs instead of the elevator. If you're parking somewhere, get a parking spot that's far. Get some extra steps in. Go for a walk with your kids. You can walk your dog. You can walk your girlfriend. You just always want to look for more ways to burn calories throughout the day. The desk bike is a cheat code for me because I have a desk bike. I'm able to burn when I'm really focused on cutting. I burn between 3500 and 4,000 calories total per day. That's because it's like hours of slowly pedaling right while I'm working, while I'm doing other [\h__\h] Especially if you sit down all day. This is very important. It's something that will help you. If you don't want to do any of that, just walk. Go for walks. Go for a 30 minute hour walks a few times a day. Walking is great exercise because you burn more calories, but it also you also will retain more muscle because um you're not burning off glycogen. You're not really working the muscles a lot, right? So, you want to aim for every day at least 20k steps if you're serious about getting really ripped, right? You probably won't need to do additional cardio throughout the day. You can, but 20k steps per day is fantastic. Now, let let's put that into the stop being a fat ass. Let's say we're burning like way more calories. Let's say we stepping this up, right? We burn extra thousand calories based off what I just told you before, which is not unreasonable. It's not crazy. But the key to burning this many calories is not try to do it all in one session. You want to use non exercise activity thermogenesis, meaning you want to burn these calories throughout the day. So, while you're doing other [\h__\h] just think everything you're doing, think, how can I burn more calories doing this? Do you play with your kids? Get active with them. Start running around with the kids. Don't just sit down on the bench like the fat dads. If you're with your girlfriend, do some [\h__\h] where y'all got to walk more. Take her to an amusement park. Take her to a museum where y'all got to walk around, right? Don't just go to the movies or the dinner. Go somewhere where you have to be active, right? You know what I'm saying? If y'all having sex, man, don't let her get on top. You can't do cardio in her vagina. You're not going to burn enough to really take it to to the to that level in one cardio session. For example, the average person only burns 100 calories if they run a mile, right? 100 calories, that's nothing, man. It's like a banana. A handful of nut, a handful of nuts is more than 100 calories. You got to get tons of cardio throughout the day. And only way to do that is to bake it into your lifestyle so you're burning more calories all day long. Now look at this. This guy burns an extra,000 calories. Boom. An extra,000 calories on top of what he's already doing. Now he's burning that's like that's like that's like 3 lbs of fat, right? That's per week. It's not crazy. Now step three is you want to keep as much muscle as possible, right? You don't want to lose muscle while you're doing this. There's a few things you need to do to make sure you retain as much muscle as possible. Number one, you have to lift heavy. Honestly, when I when I'm cutting, I might take my reps down to like six or eight. And I lift heavy, right? So, it should be impossible for me to do more than eight. And that's going to encourage your body be to retain more muscle because you're showing it that it it needs it. You're using it. It's kind of contrary to a lot of advice you'll hear. If this is your first year working out, you will be able to build muscle during the cut, but only if it's your first year working out. After that, if you've been training for more than a year, like for real, this is not muscle building time, right? I have a whole another video on how to build muscle and burn fat simultaneously, and watch that video for more insight. But if you've been training for longer than a year, you're not going to build muscle this time. It's okay. We're not trying to build muscle right now. We're trying to retain as much as possible. Everybody loses some muscle on a cut. We want to just mitigate that as much as possible. Very first thing, we have to lift heavy. The next thing we need to do, this work is difficult. We want to get one gram of protein per pound of body weight. I know that, you know, there's lots of studies saying that you don't need that much protein. You only need about se or8 g of protein per pound of body weight. I believe all that stuff. I'm not trying to say that's not real. What I am saying is that those studies were done by [\h__\h] scientists and they were done in in perfect conditions. They had to have the conditions perfect for it to be accurate. No matter how accurately you're tracking, it won't be as 100% accurate for us because the FDA allows food labels to be off by 20% in any directions. So, if you're eating something and it says 10 g of protein, because of the FDA allows labels to be 20% wrong, it might only be 8 g of protein, might be 12. You don't know. So, we want to air on the side of caution to make up for the potential 20% that the labels may be wrong. I'd rather you have more protein than you need than not enough because if you don't get enough, you will lose more muscle. You don't live in the same laboratory conditions that those studies were made in. We live in the [\h__\h] real world, not a [\h__\h] lab, right? So, we want to lift heavy. One gram of protein per pound of body weight. If you do that, you should be able to retain a significant amount of muscle and you're going to get ripped. You're going to get ripped as hell. That's going to be more difficult than you normal because you got to keep your calories so low. So, you're going to be eating high protein. I like to do with the ketogenic diet. You don't have to do keto, but one of the reasons we might find keto effective here is because there's three macronutrients, carbohydrates, protein, and fat. We got to keep the protein high. In order to keep the the calories low, we have to either cut the fat or the carbohydrates or a combination of them. The reason you might want to consider cutting the carbohydrates, some people cut cut the fat, whatever. Problem with cutting the fat is it makes the food gross, right? Imagine you eating a potato. You can't put butter on it or you got to eat pasta with no sauce. [\h__\h] gross. The flavor comes from the fat. This This may be a personal thing. It tastes better. Also, fat is more satiating, meaning you will be less hungry if you consume more fat. However, carbs actually spike the hunger hormone uh ghrein and leptin, right? So, they are addictive, especially simple carbohydrates like sugars. There have been studies that show that sugar can be as addictive as certain class A narcotics. You could eat the carbs, but now you got to fight cravings. If your fat is high and your protein is high, it it's known to lower hunger. And there's studies that show that people who follow the ketogenic diet, it actually blunts hunger. And you can do whatever you want. It's just a suggestion. You don't need carbohydrates to live. You do need fat and protein to live. There's essential amino acids which are protein, essential fatty acids which are fats. There's no such thing as essential carbohydrate. It's not a thing. I still eat vegetables like green leafy vegetables, spinach, kale, broccoli, [\h__\h] of that nature. And that way I still get the fiber as well, right? So now I'm getting fiber which is also filling and I'm getting fat which is filling. It's just a suggestion, right? You can do whatever you want. I've seen people get ripped eating tons of car carbohydrates and keeping the fat low. You got to cut one of them. Here's the bonus tip. No cheat meals during this time. I'm not saying this because the cheat meals will negatively affect your process your your progress. It's what you do habitually that counts. So if you fall off once, it's not a big deal. It is a big deal cuz it might not be just once. After a cheat meal, we've all had this. Have you noticed that you crave the foods that you cheated with the next day? Because you probably cheated with the [\h__\h] you love the most, the most tasty foods, right? And it spikes dopamine and now your body wants it the next day. However, if you were to stay the path, you get used to it and all those cravings will go away. I noticed this when I had my last cheat meal in 2023. I just noticed for the like almost a week after that, I was fighting cravings and I had to use discipline not to cheat again. But after a while, those those cravings went away. I don't need discipline to stick to my diet anymore. It's that's because abstinence is easier than moderation. This actually goes for anything you're trying to abstain from. Absinence is easier than moderation. So, if you just fully abstain from it, after a while, the cravings go away. I'm telling you, this makes it so much easier. I used to be a big proponent of cheat meals. I used to do a big cheat meal every week. I've had epic ones. I've had videos about it. This is a new thing I discovered when I quit smoking cigarettes, cold turkey, lost a craving. But drinking alcohol like 10 years ago, cold turkey, I have no cravings. I can be around people, they're drinking, but you have to get there. If I was have drinking every once in a while, I would still have the cravings. You also got to remember the contrast. You you ever you ever go somewhere it's real hot and then you go into the air conditioning and then it's like [\h__\h] cold. Then you get used to the coldness of the air conditioning and it's normal. Then you go back outside, it's like it's almost hotter, right? If you would have stayed in the heat, you would have acclimated to it and it would have been okay. But the contrast made it seem worse. That's what happens when you have a cheat meal. You eat this delicious food, then you go back to the [\h__\h] you were eating before to get ripped. It's going to be worse for you with anything. If you get [\h__\h] drunk, you're trying to quit drinking, you get [\h__\h] drunk one night and you have to go out, oh, I'm not going to drink again. It's going to seem less fun than when you were drinking because of the contrast. You You trick your brain into not liking it anymore. You like, I'm going to a Heat game tonight. I'm going to sit courtside. What do you think it's going to be like if I have to sit the next game I go to, I'm in the [\h__\h] stands. But if I was in the stands before then I go to the [\h__\h] uh courtside, it's going to be better, right? And that's the problem with cheat days. It makes it more difficult for you to stay consistent. Hey, let's say you get in great shape and you want to start helping other people get in shape. A lot of people do that. That's why one of the reasons I started training. I have a free ebook called The Ten Commandments of Online Training. And it'll show you how you can start your own online fitness business even if you don't have a big following. Even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a lot of experience. Click the link in description. You can get it and it'll really give you the game on how to grow your online fitness business. And if you follow all the steps in this, you can have a good before and after and you can use that as marketing to get your first clients. This way, you can get ripped and you can turn into a business. I think you'll be more motivated to stick to the plan if you know you'll be able to make money off of it. That sounds interesting. You download the free ebook, Ten Commandments of Online Training. It give you the whole game on how to be an online trainer. All right. Heat. Heat.