 lo-2-carnit-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2-2 like these powerful kind of tactics. Just start the video like, only use it for good because you want to be a good person. Listen, man. I ain't going to tell you that. These are some powerful tools I'm going to give you. I'm going to give you a different warning. The warning I'm going to give you is if you get too good at negotiating and getting what you want from a deal, you'll still end up losing because there have been times that I've negotiated so well because I had been studying negotiating and sales and marketing and manipulation tactics for like decades. And I got so good at it that I would make deals with people and I would get everything I wanted and they would get almost nothing out of the deal. And as a result, I didn't get their best work because they weren't incentivized. So it actually worked against me. Being an amazing negotiator worked against me. So the warning I'm going to give you is to make sure that the person is still getting a good deal. Right? You can't just get everything you want from the person. They still need to end up being happy with what they got. Please. It should be win-win and not on some moral shit, not on some be a good person, be a nice guy. Even if you are a goddamn scoundrel, a career criminal ass nigga, even if you are a fucking villain, when you're making deals in negotiations, is very... The best thing to do is to make sure that person is getting things they want out of the deal. The best thing to do is to make sure that they are benefiting from the situation. Otherwise, you won't get the best out of them. That's happened to me a few times when I got so good and negotiating and manipulating that there's no incentive for them to work hard. So, it was like, fuck, man. I got... I wound up getting 80% of nothing when I could have went 50-50 and made a lot of money. You get what I'm saying? So, that's the warning I'm gonna give you. It ain't on some moral shit. It's just on some... Hey, man. You still gotta do the fucking deal. Right? And people wanna do... Also, one more thing before I get into it. People need to want to do deals with you after that deal. Right? So, you don't wanna get a bad reputation because it's very difficult to rebuild that if you out here almost ripping people off or manipulating or getting to the point where you're just making bad deals with people. People won't stop doing deals with you. Right? So, even if you are a goddamn villain, scoundrel, it is... It's best to make your negotiations win-win. They need to get something out of it. And, more importantly, they need to feel like they won. This one, you... This one, you on some masterful shit. When they feel like they won and they really did win. That's the key. keep your ego out of it. They need to feel like they lost. I mean, they need to feel like you lost and they won. Alright? And there's three tactics I'm gonna show you. Three tactics I'm gonna show you. The first one, I call extreme nose. Extreme nose. And I don't mean nose like nose in between, in the middle of your fucking face. I mean, extreme nose, like N-O. You've heard this before. You ever been in an argument with a girl and she says something to you like, man, is this what it's gonna be like forever? Is it gonna be like this forever? Is this what's gonna happen every time we do this? Right? They all say this because they're asking you an extreme question, a wild ass question that almost forces you to say no. You know what I'm saying? And I don't think she's doing it deliberately. It's just, you know, it's just women it's in their DNA. It's in their DNA to be mental terrorists. They ain't have to watch no YouTube videos to learn how to terrorize you mentally. That's in their DNA. And I know we're not supposed to negotiate with terrorists, but we have to if if we wanna have sex with them. Yeah. When Bush said we don't negotiate with terrorists, he wasn't trying to fuck Al-Qaeda. Yeah. That's the difference between America not negotiating with terrorists and us having to negotiate with women aka mental terrorists. I digress. She says that and it's a powerful tactic because it almost forces you more onto her side. That it can be used as a close or it can just be used to push you in the direction of her side. Like, she's steering the ship. You know what I'm saying? Is it gonna be like this forever? Nah, baby, it ain't gonna be like this forever. Right? She's steering you in the direction she wants you to be in because the question is so extreme. Of course, bitch, it's not gonna be like this forever. Most people have most people have made less than five decisions about things they'll do forever in their whole life. Less than five. You know what I'm saying? Even fucking marriage. 50% of those people get divorced, right? Less than five decisions that are gonna last the rest of your life. But she's gonna talk about it over some dumb shit, right? So it's extreme. Or you can use it as a close. For example, before I started flying first class, I used to stand, I used to go sit and coach and shit, right? And the plane waitress would come through and she'd be giving everybody these fucking bullshit cups of water, bitch giving me a shot of water when I asked for it. And and I would know she would pour it from a big bottle of water and I'd be like, listen, after I asked for my water and she wants to give me that shot, I'd be like, listen, would you like get fired if you gave me that whole bottle of water? And she might laugh a little bit and say, nah, nah, nah, nah, I won't get fired. Let me get that water, bitch. Maybe I won't say that. I'd be like, oh, can I get it? Can I, can I add it? I got that whole bottle of water every time. And that's just an example, right? That's how it would be used as a close. Or it can be used to nudge someone in the right direction. Let's say you're on a sales call and the person says, oh man, I just need to think about it. I'm like, cool, man, no problem, man, how long do you need to think about it? Two, two days, two weeks, two years, right? They might laugh and be like, nah, nah, I don't need two years, right? Two years was extreme or we're moving them back. We're just kind of nudging them in the direction we wanted to go in, you know? Or just say, ah man, that's a lot of money, man. I just don't know if I got to, I don't know if I can do it. I got to check my accounts, blah, and you can say something to the effect of, yo man, let me just ask you, man, if you did spend the money on this today, like, how bad would it be? Because you sound stressed out, like, would you be out here, like, would you have to be out here snatching purses from old ladies or sleeping under the bridge eating a can of soup? I mean, the bridge? Like, how bad is it going to be? And they'll be like, ah, nah, it ain't going to be that bad. It's just going to be like, oh, I just, things might be tight, right? So, it just moves, just nudging them in the right direction sometimes. Sometimes it's straight for the clothes, like the water on the train, right? And I'll use extreme no questions throughout the, the, throughout the, to the, the interaction. You know what I'm saying? Like, extreme, extreme no questions. I think they're more powerful than what people typically teach is to get the person to say yes. get them to say yes, get them to say yes, get them to agree with you, get them to agree with you. I think it's more powerful to get them to say no, but it's still moving you in the direction. It's still moving them in the direction where you want them to go, right? You're still steering the ship because no feels like you have autonomy. if I force you to say yes, it feels like, it kind of feels like I'm twisting your arms. Like, like, you can see why this is a good deal for you, right? Right? It seems like I'm trying to convince you. But if I say, now, is this the kind of thing that you definitely wouldn't want to do? Like, there's no chance of you ever doing something like this? Like, no, no, no. I mean, I can see myself possibly doing, right? You say, you feel like you have more autonomy and I feel like I'm less pushy, right? I feel like I'm less needy when you, that's the amateur shit when someone's always trying to get you to say yes, always trying to get you to agree with them. It's amateur shit and people can feel that and they don't like it. They may not say nothing about it, but they don't like it. But if you can get them to say no, they feel like they have autonomy and you seem less motherfucking thirsty. You know what I'm saying? And a lot of times you can make jokes with extreme no's. Like, man, would you be sleeping under a bridge or what, bro? Like, you can add some levity to the situation. All right? Extreme no's. You can use them at any point in the negotiation or in the encounter. You know, or you just be, you, sometimes I do it just to be silly. You'll talk with my girl and be like, oh, so we just not gonna eat dinner tonight, huh? We fasting now? Is that what's happening? And I'll be jumping like, she'll be like, no, I'm cooking, you know, or no, I'm bored or something, right? You can use it. It's a powerful one. All right? Extreme no's. The next one is gonna call the decoy method. This is when you present and the reason this works is because things look different when they're by themselves in isolation than they do in comparison. right? They look, they, they, they, they, they appear different. For example, it's like 66 degrees right now. If I was in New York right now, probably, we'd be like, super excited about the weather because it's, it's, it's winter, right? Or yesterday was the first day of spring, whatever. we had a pretty harsh winter. So motherfuckers would be super excited about 66 degrees. However, in Miami, in my fucking Miami, 66 degrees, we all wearing coats talking about it's freezing, right? Contrast plays a role in how things are perceived. You get what I'm saying? Like you may think you got a bad bitch until you bring her to Miami, right? or the bit, or the bitch may be, you know, you live in the middle, you live in Ohio or something. You got the baddest bitch in Cincinnati. She is a 10 in Cincinnati, a Cincinnati 10. When she comes to Miami and not the same, right? You know what I'm saying? She might not, she's a motherfucking Miami six, Miami seven, right? But it's all about contrast. You get what I'm saying? It's all about contrast. So the decoy method works as a way for you to manufacture the contrast. For example, me and my girl was talking about going on vacation and she wanted to go to Hawaii. She ain't never been to Hawaii. I ain't want to go to Hawaii. One, one, because when I travel, all my travel, first class flights, fucking hotel suites, I don't pay for none of that shit. it's all Amex points, right? But that was going to use a lot of fucking Amex points, a fucking 12 hour flight, first class, that's a lot of fucking Amex points that I did not want to spend. And then I didn't want to be in Hawaii because fuck Hawaii. Like, yo, the Pacific Ocean, the water is fucking cold. I'd swim, I'd snorkel. You know, I like the Atlantic Ocean. Okay? The Pacific Ocean is all fucking, it's freezing. It sucks. And, and, I don't like to be on West Coast time because the world runs, like it or not, the world, the world runs on Eastern Standard Time because I still work when I'm on vacations and shit, right? So like, fuck that shit. I ain't want to do none of that shit for all those reasons. Most of all, the fucking 12 hour flight from Miami. Yeah. but if I just said, no, let's do something else instead, it would, it would have seemed, uh, I wanted her to pick. I want her to, to pick. She said, I wanted her to feel like she won, right? So I'm like, I bet we can go to, we can go to, we can go Hawaii. We're going, we're going to spend a lot of our points, right? We'll spend a lot of our points. So for the same amount of points, we may not be able to get the coolest suite, you know, or say at the best resort with the amount of points I want to allocate to this trip. We can go and we might not be able to stay on vacation as long because you got to think it's 12 hour flights back and forth. That's a whole day. So we have to cut a day out of our trip. Like the actual vacation time is going to be one day shorter because we're going to spend a fucking full day traveling like on flights. And so we can do that. And I'm, I'm down to do that for you or, or, or we can just go to Barbados a 90 minute flight and say we can, we can, we for, for less points, we can fly private. Okay. Say at a doper resort with the same amount of points and stay longer and do cooler shit because, you know, we have a better budget or the money will go along further with our, the money and the points will go further with our budget. But, you know, you do, do whatever you want to do. Well, what do you think, baby? It's your world. It's your world, baby girl. And we live in Barbados. Right. And she picked it. Right. So it's, it's positioning one offer that's like not desirable. One or many are, are many that are not desirable against ones, against the one you really want them to pick, which is going to, which is desirable by itself. It's desirable. Right. Who don't want to fly private, private to Barbados and say in the dopest resort. Right. It's desirable on its own, but it looks even more desirable in comparison to all the fucking bad parts of going to Hawaii. Does that make sense? I hope I articulated that. Right. Another thing, you know, real estate agents will do this shit. Like they'll be trying to take, they'll be showing you homes and they might take you to a fucked up crib first. Some shit that don't meet your standards. Some shit that's like super underwhelming. You're like, oh man, this ain't really for me. Then they'll bring you to some dope shit. Then they'll bring you to some dope shit. And the dope shit was dope shit on its own. But in comparison to the shit you just saw, it's way better. You know what I'm saying? It's, it's contrast is a super important tool you can use in your arsenal when it comes to manipulation. But, because things are different when they're compared to other things. than, than in, in isolation. You get what I'm saying? You can make, you can make things seem less desirable or more desirable by what you compare it to. And that's everything. Like that's, that's a life lesson, right? Where they say comparison is the thief of joy because your life could be great. Your life is great. Your life is fantastic. Yeah, even you in the projects. You living in the projects watching this, bro, you living better than kings did 200 years ago. You hear what I'm saying? Kings, they motherfuckers ain't have AC. They ain't have no entertainment. They ain't have no TV. No, no, no motherfucking cellular phones. No internet. No, they, they had, they wanted to goon. They had to use their imagination. They was gooning. Kings had to goon to their imagination, right? Or maybe they had a home or some shit, but you know, you got to deal with a bunch of bitches. Right? You living better than the motherfuckers. You got AC, you comfortable, you can get delicious food whenever you want. If you want to get in, if you want to be entertained, you ain't got to call the court jester to dance for you. You got unlimited, unlimited entertainment options, right? But you might be comparing yourself to someone else and it seems, and it feels whack. You get what I'm saying? It's all, like contrast is such a powerful tool and the, the decoy method allows you to, to weaponize contrast to your advantage, all right? As opposed to it being weaponized against you your whole fucking life, you know? Fun fact, real quick, just on that shit, you know, your girl, if you guys got a girlfriend, you know, the relationship advice, man, only beat off the girls who look like your girlfriend. You know what I'm saying? Because if you start beating off the girls who look different or better than your girl, it's like, ah, man, now that you, you're doing the contrast negatively. You know what I'm saying? Or girls who look uglier than your girlfriend. So now you appreciate her more. You got to manipulate the contrast, baby, to your advantage. This is all a mental game. All right. And the third one is called the red herring. So this is when you're making a deal with someone or a negotiation with someone and you make a big deal about a part of the deal, a huge deal about some part of the deal that you don't even really give a fuck about it, but you just make a big deal about it and then you and then you can give up on that part as if they won in exchange for something else. For example, I don't want to use a real example of this because I don't want to get myself in trouble using some examples I've used. Most of us will be watching my videos, right? But let's just make one up. Let's say you had some season tickets to the Heat, right? The Heat season tickets over there at the Keisha Center, right? And you was trying to sell it to me, right? And I know I know that maybe you live next door to me. You live close, all right? And I'm like, you need to sell them because you need some money quick, right? So you're eager to sell. And not everybody got fucking 10 grand or whatever for season tickets. I mean, it's probably depending on the seats. It could be more than that, right? But you're trying to get rid of them because you got to move some money or some shit fast, right? And we negotiating and I'm like, yeah, man, yeah, I'll buy the seats from you for the 10 grand. However, however, you got to let me park in your building's parking spot. Every game and then I'll do it. And like, nah, man, you can't probably about parking spot. And maybe we just go back and forth about this shit, right? Because maybe you live in one of these buildings close to me. Right? No, you can't, man, come on, man, you didn't do that. Hey, man, listen, you want to sell these tickets or not? And we go back and forth and I'm like, all right, listen, listen, listen. Listen, I forget about the parking spot if you can, if you can put it down to like eight grand. And he might feel like you made a concession. So he's like, oh, all right, cool. You know what I'm saying? Like that shit should be happening. Right? Because now he's not looking at the deal in isolation. He's looking at it at the deal as tickets plus parking lot. because I made a big fucking deal about the parking lot. Right? That's just an example that I made up right before I said it because I didn't want to give you a real example. There's a red herring. So you make up, make up some shit to go along with the deal, make a big deal about it and then say, you know what? Listen, I'll give up on that if you like take your price down or something or if you add something else, you know, then, and then they feel, they might feel like you made a concession and they might feel like they won. You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? That's, that's the red herring. Right? Those are just three. I can fucking, I can teach a, a, a five, four or five day seminar on negotiation tactics. Those are just the three I wanted to share with you, you know, uh, but yo, you ain't got nothing to negotiate if you ain't got no business. Right? You got to have a business that has something to negotiate in the first goddamn place. So, uh, I'm doing a live training where I'll show you how to grow your online fitness business using AI. All right. I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually grow your follow. I'm going to show you how to use AI to get more online clients. And I'm going to show you how to train your clients with AI so they get amazing results. If that sounds interesting, you click the link in the description. All right. I'll holler at y'all. Peace.