Yo, what up? What up? It's your man the granny Carter. Today I want to give y'all three tips that going to help you put on more muscle mass faster. Keep going. Keep pushing. All right. So, with these three tips, we're going to focus on building bigger biceps. These tips will work for all muscle groups. But we're going to focus on biceps because I got a new book called bicep bible dropping on February 7th. If you want to know more about that, go to bicepbible.com. Link is in description. All right, but let's get into the tips. All right, so the first mistake I see guys making is just lazy reps. Lazy reps. They're just lifting. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Getting swing. Look at me getting swole. for no muscle. No, no, no. See, when you lift the weights, you want to contract at the top and then lower. All right? So, you want to get that contraction, that squeeze at the top. You see? Yeah. Look at me. Yep. And I've got to contract at the top to really make that muscle work, really make the bicep work or any muscle you're training because that's really going to put the tears in the muscle fiber that you need and your body will respond by getting stronger and bigger. Another common mistake I see guys making is just lowering the weights too fast. Like check it out. Yep. Yep. Doing curls. Do it slow. Nope. You lift, contract, and then lower the weights. Control. Lift. Contract. Lower the weights. Control. Now, what I like to do is power up. Like I go up almost as fast as I can with control, right? Always with control is paramount because when you lift the weights faster, you actually have to recruit more muscle fibers. All right? So, lift the weights fast, contract, and then lower like about two seconds. Count one, 1,00 2,000. So, bam. You don't need to accentuate it too much, right? You're lifting weights, not lowering, but you definitely want that control negative. That's going to make it more difficult and cause your body to respond by growing. The next mistake I see guys make is probably the biggest mistake of all of them is they're not lifting with full range of motion. This is probably the most common, right? So, for example, that's lifting up. Yep. Lifting. Yep. Doing the rip. And you're only like going a little bit. You going You want to go up, but you want to with biceps, you want to extend. I like to pretty much extend my elbows. Come up, contract, lower the weight. Cuz when you do the full range of motion, makes it more difficult and you recruit more muscle fibers causing your body to grow. When you're doing all these things, you're going to notice, "Oh, I can't lift as much." Yeah, it's not about how much you lift. It's about how much you lift with the right form because that's going to give you the progress you want, right? Unless your goal is just to lift as much weight as possible, right? That's okay goal to have. I'm not hating on that. But if your goal is to put size and you need to follow these rules that I just laid out, if you want more tips on how to build big biceps, check out my new book coming on February 7th called Bicep Body. Click the link in description if you would like more information about that. And make sure you leave a comment. Let me know what you think. Let me know what other videos you want to see on this topic or any other topics. Hit the like button if this was helpful for you. And I'll holl at y'all later. Peace. Heat. Heat.