Your habits will shape your life and it will determine how rich you become, how successful you become, or how broke, stupid, and ugly you remain. So, if you wanted to have a great life, you have to have amazing habits. And in this video, I'm going to break down seven of the top habits of seven and 8 figure entrepreneurs. These are habits that I use. These are habits that my rich friends use. I have a lot of friends, man, who have a lot of money to help us get to the bag. You might have seen some videos on this topic. Here's some habits of rich people. Wake up early. Set goals. Make your bed. It's like it ain't going to be no basic like that. These are extreme habits. And some of you guys are going to see these habits and you'll be like, "Oh man, that's too much for me. I can't do all that. I'm a bitch." Uh for you, man. I thank you, man. I thank you for like really understanding who you are and what you're capable of. Somebody got to drive the Ubers until we get the robot. Somebody got to do all the regular [\h__\h] and that's you. But for the rest of us, here are seven extreme habits of sevenfigure entrepreneurs. I think I might have eight. I might get I might throw I might throw a little extra in there. Habit number one, something I'm calling neural cycle scheduling. This is designing your workday around your brain waves and not necessarily the clock. What I mean by that is someone like Hermosi, the big homie, he schedules his day into four, threehour blocks. The first hour day is him like doing stuff to promote stuff. The second block of the day is him building stuff, actually doing work. And the third hour day, the third or fourth hour day is some [\h__\h] I forgot. I follow a similar schedule. So for me, in the morning, I do the boring work, the boring business operation [\h__\h] you know? I wake up early and I get a bunch of [\h__\h] done that I [\h__\h] hate. I subscribe to the theory of do the worst first. You know, [\h__\h] that I have to do but I don't enjoy. Accounting, responding to emails, [\h__\h] like that. At afternoon, I'll take my meetings. This where I have like meetings with my content team, my operations team or any other meetings that I schedule. I schedule like midday, mid-afternoon, right? Afternoon is when I do more creative work. This would be like writing scripts for like short form or long form video or even like creating long form video. Like this is where I do creative stuff cuz I find that me personally, I'm more creative when the sun starts to set. I don't know why. And then I go to sleep early so I can wake up early and do the boring [\h__\h] again. I'm not the only person to do this. It's not just me and and Hermosi. homie Jack Dorsey. He started Twitter and Square and you know he does [\h__\h] in the morning where he has like you know his morning routine where it's like cold plunges, meditation. He does that [\h__\h] all before the sun rises and then he goes into where he starts doing like his creative work like writing product design. A lot of people like creative work in the morning. That's not my thing. You got to schedule it based off your circadian rhythms and the [\h__\h] that works well for you. But this way you're not fighting your biology. You sync your productivity with your biology. Now, if you got a job, a regular ass job, then this is not something you'll be able to do every day. So, you got to do what what's best for you around your schedule. When I had jobs, I would wake up early or I'll work on the weekends, 12 hours on Saturdays and Sundays. So, whatever works best for you. The next habit is something I'm calling brutal feedback loops. Meaning, I'm always looking at what I've done and having my team look at what I've done and not just tell me what I did good or try to kiss my ass, right? But I want to know how we can improve. And a lot of it is based off data. So, for example, Nema, he's he's kind of in charge of the YouTube, he'll look at the actual data and say, "Hey, when you did this kind of video, it performed better." When you make the short form video, when you're standing with your shirt off talking about food, those videos seem to do better. That's real [\h__\h] that he said. So, we look at the data. We got that feedback from the market and we started making more serless pool food videos. It's like that with everything. So, I really asked my team, "Yo, what can I do better?" So, you always want to look for like these feedback loops in a good way. So my my homie uh Derek Moneyberg, every time we do an event, I've been friends with Derek for like I don't know 11 years now. A lot of times we'll do speaking events at the same time. First thing he'll ask me is like, "Yo, what could I have done better?" Eric got more money than me. He still looks at me say, "Hey, what can I do better?" I got more money than Nemo, I think. But I still like, "Yo, man, what can I do better?" And and I give him the power to tell me what to do even though I'm the boss. It's almost like I hire them to tell me what to do, but based off feedback. So Ray Dalio, big homie Ray Ray. He built the biggest hedge fund of all time, Bridgewwater Capital. He has something in his organization called radical transparency. And this is a system where every employee gets to rate his decisions, including the ones that call him out. So all his employees can rate his decisions, right? And he goes back at that feedback and then he makes better decisions as a result. Ray Dolly are one of the richest people on planet Earth. You know, it makes a lot of sense for you to do. How do you implement that in your life? Well, one thing you can do even if you don't have outside forces, right, when you're doing something, look at the results you're getting. Look at the data. Okay, am I getting the results that I want, right? If not, then I need to change some of these variables. And if you can have outside people, coaches are great for this. If you have a coach, then it makes it a lot easier. A coach or a mentor or someone, hey, I did this, this will happen. What can I do better? And that's going to make it like significantly better. Or you can ask employees or people you trust or people whose opinions you respect. That feedback can be super valuable. The next habit, I'm calling it rejection training. You know, learning to get comfortable with rejection. And this is very important if you're somebody who has to deal with sales. If you have to do sales of any kind, and if you have a business, you got to make sales in some capacity. So, this is where you actually seek out rejection in a in a way where it you become immune to it. I see a lot of people when they get into some sort of sales position or they have to sell their own product, they start talking to me and they'll say something like, "Ah man, I couldn't close this deal because of blah blah blah blah blah blah blah." And you know, I want to look at what they did, what they what they could have did better. But at the same time, I'm like, "Wait a minute. How many sales calls you had this week?" You're like, "Oh, just one." I'm like, "Oh, man. You tripping over one." Like, nobody has 100% closer, right? You got to get comfortable with that no with that rejection. And the more comfortable you get with it, the fear of that will actually go away and you'll perform better cuz you're not scared of rejection if you're used to rejection. Sarah Blakeley, she was the founder of Spanx. That was the really first famous shapewear com company where women would like buy this [\h__\h] make them look less fat. You know, man, she's a successful woman, but she's doing devil's work. She's a billionaire off shape shift and panty hoes and leggings, right? But she said her father used to do some [\h__\h] He would help have her make a list of her failures every day. She said it reprogrammed her brain to not think about failure as rejection, but think about failure as growth as opposed to shame. Because you kind of have to fail a little bit and get rejected a little bit to become successful. Probably a lot. If you could reframe that rejection as, okay, I learned what didn't work. Now I can cross that out. I can try another way. You know, you might have to like just start cold approaching chicks or something. Don't be weird about it, but just, you know, you're going to get rejected a lot, and if you get comfortable with it, you'll be cool. The next tip I'm calling adversity simulation. So, this is training for chaos before it arrives. Getting good at handling chaos. A lot of people do things like um extreme sports, cold plunging, fasting, anything that's like difficult. But once they've been through that difficulty, then regular business [\h__\h] won't seem as insurmountable cuz they went through something else. This is not something that I had to practice. I think just growing up in Chicago. I grew up on the south side of Chicago like twice. I saw dead bodies on the way to school. Like [\h__\h] got shot. One of my teachers got beat up by another student in fifth grade, you know, like we had metal detectors in middle school. Grew up in a gangfested wasteland. That kind of environment um presents a lot of opportunities for misfortune. Once I've been through that, like this the business world didn't seem as stressful to me. How you could replicate that in your life, you know, if you grew up in a nice comfy environment, that's dope. Maybe you had to do some [\h__\h] like cold plunge every day or run a [\h__\h] marathon or something. Something to put yourself through something difficult. I really do think it's it's helped me going through that adversity. I I I really do believe it's helped me in business or even in trading, you know, cuz you know, I've been trading for like 5 years and one of the main things that'll [\h__\h] you over trading is fear, greed, and emotions. I think I handle it a lot better than most people would because, you know, I've had like guns in my face. So, I I really believe that's going to help you out a lot. simulate adversity in your life. So when you that's more extreme than what you have to go through in business because when you go through those business extremes, they won't seem as difficult and you'll become less fragile. You know, a good example, it's kind of like the calluses on your hands. If anybody's been lifting weights without gloves, anybody's been with lifting weights without gloves, you have calluses. And I have a ton of them, right? So it it's when I first started lifting weights, it hurt. But now it's nothing. Like I don't even I I forget that it hurts some people's hands to lift weights now. [\h__\h] 26 years of of of calluses. It made me tough or even playing guitar. I had these calluses on my fingertips from playing from years of playing guitar and it's so much easier. That's what you're going to be like. You're going to have like mental calluses if you put yourself through adversity. So, when you go through the regular [\h__\h] is nothing. I mean, the next habit is something I'm calling extreme self surveillance. Treating your life like game film. what you need to be doing, especially when you're first starting out, record your your sales calls. If you're doing sales, like if you're doing public speaking, go over your speeches. You're making content, go over your content or even film your workouts or film your body language, however you can. What this is going to do is you you'll notice certain things about yourself. It may have slipped past you. I edited the first 1,000 videos on this channel, and when I was editing those videos, like, oh, I need to learn how to speak better. cuz when you have to edit out all the ums and filler words, I didn't want to edit that much. So, I I had to develop a way to stop saying um as much. I'm not saying I'm the most eloquent person in the whole world, but it's way better than it was when I first started. And that's because I observed myself. And you can do that with anything, man. Anything you want to get better at, find a way to film or record yourself doing it and really study that game film. So, for example, someone like Kobe Bryant used to spend hours a day looking at his own footage, obsessively fixating over micro movements that, you know, you and I probably wouldn't even have noticed. That's why he's one of the best ever, you know, and all. That's why he's a legend. See what you can learn and what you can improve and then take that into your next endeavor. The next habit I'm calling total calendar domination. You guys probably knew this was coming. This is where you plan every hour of every day, including your rest, workouts, meals, and even thinking time in your calendar. I use Google calendar, but you plan every hour of every day, and you leave no space for distraction or chaos. If someone said, "Hey, yo, Brandon, give me one tip." And it would be this. Plan every hour of every day in your calendar. This is the cheat code to success in any endeavor. Everyone I've ever mentored who actually did this, within 90 days, they was unrecognizable. They were in better shape because they started planning their workouts and their meals or when they were going to go to sleep. They all made more money because they started planning when they were going to work on certain things in their business. What you notice is two things happen. One, you realize, man, I've been wasting a [\h__\h] ton of time. And you'll start to get so much more done each day. You do this [\h__\h] for a month, 3 months, 90 days. You will run circles around competition. Everyone you know will look at you be like, "Man, this [\h__\h] is different. What have you been doing? You locked in. Plan every hour of every day in your calendar." Second thing you'll notice is almost all your bad habits will be gone, right? Because you're not going to plan getting high smoking weed unless it's a priority for you, right? If smoking weed is a priority, then yeah, put it in the calendar. If you're trying to quit video games, don't put it in your calendar. You have your calendar filled up with other productive [\h__\h] So, there won't be no time for video games, recreational drugs, alcohol, gooning, all the bad habits you have, it'll kind of just disappear. You won't have to do no wild extravagant thing to quit these habits that you won't have time for. Your cognitive would be locked out every day. Like when I quit smoking weed and drinking alcohol, it wasn't even like, man, I'm going to quit smoking weed and drinking alcohol. I didn't have time to do it. And then [\h__\h] year went by, I was like, oh [\h__\h] I ain't really drank this year. I haven't smoked weed all year. Like, if you get fooled off healthy food, you won't have to worry about eating junk food cuz you'll be full. You won't even have a desire instead of just trying to deprive yourself and replace it with other stuff. is a super effective way to quit any bad habit. Now, you're still an addict. So, when your calendar is not filled, you're gonna fill that time with something and it's probably going to be weed smoking video game gooning. But if you do this, man, you'll be so productive. I'm not even the only one who does this right. Elon Musk schedules his life in five minute blocks, every meeting, workouts, when he's going to eat his food. It's all in his calendar. This is how I can manage multiple billion-dollar companies and have like 13 14 kids while being a ketamine addict. You know what I'm saying? I don't know this. Don't sue me. I don't know this. Allegedly, you can't do that without a schedule. You can't do that. You can't be that prolific. So, what you going to do is stop managing time and start weaponizing the time. Put everything you do in your calendar. Put your sleep. If you got a job, put that in there. Put your commute. Choreograph your days instead of freestyling them. This one is kind of unique to me. I don't know if I have a lot of examples of historical figures or famous people who've done this, but this really helped me a lot. I call this glucose mastery is when you manage your glucose levels to be more productive. So, a lot of you guys, you'll eat food and then you slow down. You won't be as productive after you eat. There's a few reasons for that. One, sometimes your body uses energy to break down the food. But one of the major reasons is y'all eating sugary candy and [\h__\h] or refined carbohydrates, [\h__\h] that spikes your glucose levels. So here's the thing. When you're eating carbohydrates, especially simple carbohydrates, they convert to something called glucose or glycogen. When your blood glucose levels go above 110, your pancreas secretes a hormone called insulin. insulin's job is to flush out all this excess glucose in your body so you don't die. Your pancreas sees all that glucose as a [\h__\h] emergency. is going to really spike your insulin levels and flush out as much glucose as possible. Here's a problem with that. It overdoes it. It overshoots it and it takes away a lot of glucose from your brain and your brain is running on glucose. So, you get [\h__\h] tired and sleepy after that [\h__\h] To combat that, what you really need to do is manage your [\h__\h] glucose levels. I I learned this when I first started doing intermittent fasting. Like a long time ago, maybe like 15 years ago, I was intermittent fasting. And I noticed that once I got used to intermittent fast and I had so much energy during the fast, I was so productive during the fast. And then when I broke that fast around 3 or 4, it was over. I had to get all my work done before 3 or 4 cuz when I broke that fast, it was a wrap. And when I went through the ketogenic diet, I noticed, oh man, I had energy all day. And it's because my glucose levels stayed level. Actually, they stay like super low, which was fine because when you're on a ketogenic diet, an absence of glucose, your liver produces something called ketones. And that's a new fuel that your body runs off of, right? and that's more stable than glucose. I digress. You don't have to go keto. What you do do need to do is make sure you monitor your glucose levels. So, one thing you can do to keep your glucose levels in check is to stay away from sugar, man. You don't need to eat sugar. You ain't no [\h__\h] child. You ain't a baby. This ain't preschool. This ain't a playground. You know what I'm saying? Eat like a man. And a man should be eating protein at every meal. So, even if you eat carbohydrates, don't eat your carbohydrates by themselves. Stay away from sugar. Just stay away from sugar and eat your carbohydrates with protein. Right? And if you can eat your carbohydrates with protein, what happens is it mitigates the glucose spike so your body doesn't produce as much insulin. Another you can do is after you eat, especially if you're eating carb riders, go on a little walk. That'll stabilize your glucose levels as well. Another trick you can do is before you eat something that you know is going to be high on a glycemic index, eat some cinnamon before, like take a cinnamon pill. And cinnamon before meals keeps your glucose levels more stable. I don't know why. So, these are things you can do. But for me, I just I'm just keto, so it's not something I have to worry about anymore. I do keto for this reason. People always ask me about carnivore. Carnivore and keto are not the same thing. They're like cousins, right? Cuz if you're doing a carnivore diet, you're probably going to be in ketosis. Carnivore diet is just like, okay, I'm going to focus on one food group, meat. And with ketogenic diet, it's about your macronutrient ratio. The keto macros, you can do you can be vegan and and do keto. You have more diverse food choices, right? However, you'll probably get similar results. That's what I'm talking about. If you wanted to do car carnivore, you can do it. I'm going to give you an eighth tip. Perpetual learning. Every rich dude I know is always learning something or reading. I get with some of my rich friends and we start talking about our favorite books. I was on a private jet with my homie uh Bulletproof John. We were geeking out on each other's Audibles. Like we we were looking to see what books we had on Audible, you know, and uh we were giving recommendations and we were buying the books immediately. You know, my boy Jeremy, Jeremy makes a lot of money, man. He's recommending books. Like, we're talking about book recommendation. I recommend a book to him. He'll buy it like on the spot. Same same with me. He recommended like five books last time I was at his crib. I just bought them all on the spot. This is like normal at the highest levels. For example, Warren Buffett, he spends 80% of his day reading. Now, he's an old man. [\h__\h] else he going to do, right? Him and Bill Gates, they interviewed like years ago, maybe 10 years ago, and he said, "If you could have one superpower, what would it be?" And they both said to read faster. I I don't know any super successful people who don't read a lot. I've heard some of guys say that to say they don't read. I've heard some guys say that like these books ain't decoration. Like I've read more books than you see behind me. Like I have twice as many books as this in storage. And then that's not even counting what's on my Kindle or my Audible. Every time I'm in the gym when I'm working out, people are always asking me, "Oh yo man, what do you listen to when you work out? What's your what's your gym playlist?" I listen to audio books. People think I'm listening to Lil Baby or Kashi69 or something. It's like, "Nah, man. I'm listening to Brian Tracy, man. I'm listening to Lil Tracy cuz I just always want to be learning. And the more you learn, the more you spurn, man. You want to know some of the best books you can read to make money? I got a video all about that. Go check that out. And it's a really good video because I'm If I tell you a a book is good, it means something. I've been reading two books a week for like 15 years. Go check that video out right now.