If you're trying to lose weight, here are eight [\h__\h] myths that are keeping you fat. See, I used to think you being fat was your fault, man. But you've been lied to your whole life. You focusing on this bull instead of focusing on the [\h__\h] that's going to help you accomplish your fitness goals. You can stop being fat and your kids can stop being getting made fun of. Make fat dad and moms come to the parent teacher conference. See, stop giving a about these eight things. The first thing you need to stop giving a [\h__\h] about is eating after eight. I hear this all the time, man. Yo, man, you can't eat after 8 or you get fat. But people ask me, man, do you eat at night, man? Like, like that's the thing. Calories don't know what time it is. Fat cells don't have a bedtime. There's some science behind this. This is study done in 2002. It showed that eating later shifted the metabolism slightly. Did people work night shifts, but it it wasn't enough to to make a big difference. Like, it was neglig almost negligible. The main thing you should concern yourself with when it comes to losing fat is total daily calories, not so much meal timing. And here's a study right here. All right, meal timing. It just it didn't make a big difference. You can read the study on your own if you don't or you just [\h__\h] listen to me. I'm not fat. So, here's what you should do instead. You got to focus on your total calories throughout the day, your total caloric intake. Cuz here's the thing. My biggest meal is always at night. I eat like a goddamn king at night. And there's a few reasons I do that. For me, it's because I I eat less throughout the day because I feel like I have more energy when I'm when I'm I'm light. When you eat a lot of food, it's just kind of heavy on your stomach and at night, I get full. So, I backload all my calories. It doesn't matter if I do that or not. It's all about total caloric intake. So, what you need to start doing is tracking your calories. If you're serious about losing fat, and it doesn't matter when you eat, you eat right before bed. You can eat in the bed. As long as you are tracking your calories and you're in a caloric deficit, you will lose fat. I like aggressive cuts. You want to get aggressive. Take your body weight in pounds, multiply it by 10, that's how many calories you need. You start eating that many calories and and not a calorie over that. You will lose fat. Guaranteed 100% of you. Don't don't sweat the schedule of eating. You know what I'm saying? You're going to be all right. Another thing you need to stop giving a [\h__\h] about is avoiding seed oil. And I'm not saying that they're great for you. It's really major in the minors. 1500 Americans die every day of obesity related diseases. Right? To put that in perspective, 3,000 people died on 9/11. So obesity in America is it's like a 9/11 every other day, but it doesn't get the kind of national attention because it's gradual. They're not getting fat and dying because of seed oils. You're getting fat and dying because the calories, calories in, calories out. And I'm not saying seed oils are great, but it's major in the minors. Get skinny first, then worry about seed oil. Right? If you need to lose a lot of weight, one step at a time, fat boy. First, focus on losing that fat. Then if you want to worry about seed oils like a Whole Foods yepy, then you can do that. that you and your girlfriend can go to [\h__\h] Trader Joe's and look for all this [\h__\h] without seed oils in it. But it's not a big deal. Here's a study from John Hopkins University showing that moderate consumption of seed oils is is it's not a big deal, you know. And this is this the study came out in 2025, right? And this is they just go well into it. John Hoppers University, man. And there's another study from the British Journal of National Reviews said there's no strong evidence that vegetable oils promote fat gain, right? It's really all about eating too many calories. Now, I'm not saying that seed oils are great for you. I'm sure there's other reasons to stay away from them outside of body composition, but you got to understand those reasons have nothing to do with body composition. But also, most studies show that normal consumption of these oils is not a [\h__\h] big deal, man. Another thing you need to stop doing is [\h__\h] detoxes and cleanses. All that [\h__\h] is [\h__\h] You can forget about all that detox teas, detox juices, cleanses, flux toxins. Yo, it doesn't work. Right? So, here's a review in uh in the Journal of Human Nutrition and saying that no evidence that detox diets improve fat loss, your liver and your kidneys may detox your body, right? All this detox teas and detox juice, it's [\h__\h] It's all marketing. If you care about detoxification, make sure you get enough sleep. Make sure you stay well hydrated. If you're well hydrated, your kidneys will function better. You know what I'm saying? And eat nutritious, nutritionally dense food, man. These kind of things will support your your body's natural uh detoxification. You'll stay healthier without any goddamn gimmicks. Right? This is one that's going to be controversial. All the yepies are going to get mad at me for this. Somebody's going to be listening to this at a Whole Foods or a Trader Joe and they might throw their phone on the floor or start crying because stop worrying about organic versus non-organic. Most of that organic [\h__\h] is a scam. Let me tell you why. You are allowed to put organic on your food and sell it in the grocery store. You can give it that label as long as your food was not produced with synthetic pesticides. Those foods, almost all of them still have pesticides. They're just using natural pesticides. That word is used kind of loosely. And there's studies to show that those natural pesticides are often times just as carcinogenic as the synthetic ones. So you paying more for a different version of the same [\h__\h] cuz it still has pesticides. 100% of the [\h__\h] you buy in the grocery store has pesticides. If it's not synthetic pesticides, they can call it organic and charge your goofy ass twice as much for it. There's also a study in the Journal of Clinical Nutrition. There's no significant fat loss difference between organic and conventional diets once calories are controlled. From a body composition standpoint, if that's why you're buying organic food is useless. Now, if you want to do it for other health benefits or something, yeah, you probably just getting scammed, bro, cuz they definitely still have pesticides. 100% without exception. You're paying more for nothing. Here's a one more thing. I'm making all my white fans upset with this video, but I I love y'all. Artificial sweeteners. You can stop giving a [\h__\h] about that, man. Sucrossse is probably the most studied compound in history. And all the evidence shows that if you eat art, if you consume artificial sweeteners in normal dosage, I'm not telling you to drink 25 diet cokes today. It's safe. These compounds are not new. Like they've been around for a long time. There's a large meta analysis saying there's no evidence that shows that for weight gain. There's no evidence that shows for weight gain that that they have any effect. artificial sweeteners and actually help reduce your calorie intake and support fat loss because there's no calories. So, I drink Coke Zero multiple times a day. I I probably drink three, four Coke Zeros a day. I put Splenda in my green tea. I drink green three green teas a day. Real sugar is far worse for you than artificial sweetener and it's not even close. I have a whole video about how bad sugar is for you. You can check that out. Sugar is awful. mainly because it has a lot of calories. And when they people say, "Man, I'll take some natural sugar over artificial sugar." Yo, man. Hable sugar. You don't know how it's made. If you think that's natural sugar, it starts off as sugar cane and that's processed into molasses. That molasses is processed into brown sugar. That brown sugar is processed into table sugar, right? So, it's been processed four times. If you think that's [\h__\h] natural, you out your goddamn mind. Right? The the the closest thing to natural sugar is the fructose that you get from fruit. That's way better if you're eating whole fruit because it has fiber in it that mitigates a lot of the negative effects, but it still has calories. Still just calories in, calories out. Man, all my pre-workouts probably have artificial sweetener in it. And I drink a lot of green tea. I consume a lot of probably an above average level of artificial sweetener. My health is literally perfect. I'm in better shape than you. Haven't been sick in 8 years. But then again, nobody in my family has cancer. Maybe if cancer ran in my family, maybe I take more precautions with artificial sweetening. Small amounts of studies have shown that there could be a link. The rats that died that got cancer from Sweden low, they had like their body weight in Sweden low. I don't think it's going to kill me. Another myth you need to to forget about is people think that sweating equals fat loss, right? People really believe that like you're sweating out the fat. Doesn't work like that. You you lose fat when you're burning more calories than you consume and your body will use those your fat cells for energy in the absence of adequate amount of calories to sustain itself, right? That's what your fat cells are for. It's they're you store fat as a way to is a your body's defense mechanism to use in times of famine. Sweat is a whole different process. Sweat happens when your body overheats and your sweat glands secrete sweat and to to cool your body down because your body cools down as the sweat evaporates from your skin. Human beings, we have very sophisticated sweat glands. Dogs, they don't have sweat glands. Even though a dog doesn't sweat, it pants instead of sweating. A dog can still get fat and lose weight without sweating at all. Fun fact, human beings have sophisticated sweat glands. That's why 100 humans would beat 100 gorillas. The gorilla one, he's full of fur. He going to get hot as hell. He don't have the same kind of sweat glands we do. So, he would overheat and [\h__\h] die in in the heat of battle. Now, the first 20, 30 humans, they're gone. Another myth, this one is I don't think people still listen to this, but this was big when I first started working out is you got to eat six small meals a day. There was a study came out in 2015. So there's no difference between three meals and six meals when protein is matched to increase frequency on fat oxidation and perceived hunger. There was no difference. And then there's also a study that came out in 2025 that showed that three meals a day can help regulate hunger better than six meals a day, meaning the people were more satiated. So yeah, man. You don't need six meals a day. I don't think people are still believing in that, but sometimes I meet somebody my age who still like, "Yeah, man. So I got to eat six six small meals a day." Here's the thing, though. There may be a slight anabolic benefit to doing that. Like if you're trying to if you're trying to gain muscle, as much muscle as possible, probably better to get protein around the clock. How much better? I don't know. Last thing you don't need to worry about when it comes to fat loss is worrying about caffeine spiking your cortisol. I've hear people say that lately like it'll spike caffeine spikes your cortisol level. There's a study that showed up that came out [\h__\h] 20 years ago and and it showed that caffeine temporarily raises your cortisol levels, but research showed that it had no long-term in impact on fat loss when calories and exercises are controlled. I believe that caffeine is a necessary part of your fat loss arsenal. Caffeine is a potent appetite suppressant, meaning you'll be less hungry, so it's easier for you to control the amount of calories you consume. But you'll also have more energy, meaning it'll be easier for you to burn more calories. Lose fat, you got to what? Burn more calories than you consume. Caffeine helps you do both of those things simultaneously. If you are serious about losing fat, I got another video you should watch right now that'll really put you down the path of losing the most amount of fat in the shortest amount of time. Go check out that video right now. All right. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.