I'm about to rank my current favorite AI tools. Let's start with getting the worst ones out the way. Apple Intelligence, that's Booty. Microsoft Copilot, Booty. Don't waste your time. Then we got Gronk. If you really like to goon, like if Gooning is one of your favorite things, then this is a mustave. It specializes in that. Otherwise, it's pretty mid. 11 Labs lets you clone your voice, but you can also make video avatars with it now, too. So, I'm going to go with solid. Many chat. This can automate your DMs, and it has some AI functionality. I'm going say this is a mustave if you're trying to make money on social media. Notion, I organized my whole life with notion and the AI functionality in there really took it to the next level. This is going to be a mustave. Chad GPT, everyone knows what that is. It's solid. Perplexity is similar to Cad GPT, but it's a little different and it shows you all the sources it got it from. I mean, it's it's just kind of mid. Agent allows you to make video avatars as well. I'm going to say it's solid. The script, this is a video editing tool that uses AI to help you edit videos a lot faster. This is solid. Fireflies is what I use to record all my meetings and my Zoom meetings and sales calls for my team. It gives you AI summaries and transcripts of every meeting you take on Zoom. I'm going say this is a mustave. So is the best AI music making platform. When I need to make some music for my YouTube videos and I don't want a copyright strike, Sunno is where I go. This is a mustave. Adobe Podcast Studio. Listen, if you got some trash audio or if it's windy or if it's a lot of noise, this will get rid of that and make your microphone sound like you recorded it on a $1,000 mic, even if you just did it straight to your phone. This is a mustave. Open Claws, the new kid on the block. This can actually turn your computer into a real employee. You can actually go out and do stuff for you. But because of the safety concerns, I'm just going to put it at mid for right