This video we're going to rank the best marketing strategies for online trainers. The strategies I'm going to talk about can be applied to any business, but I'm just wellversed with online training because I built a multisefigure online training business and I've helped over 15,000 people grow their successful online fitness businesses. I have a large sample size of what works for me and my 15,000 students. Let's go rank them. Uh cold callin. Let's just get this off the board. This is D last, right? Online training is mostly on the internet. So, we're going to this buying followers. This has got to be D tier. And the reason buying followers is bad is because the way the algorithm works. So, the way the algorithm works is when you post some content, it's going to show it. This is a piece of content and this works on on on Tik Tok, Instagram, YouTube. When you post some content, it's going to test it. Test number one on a small group of your audience. If they engage it and they like it, then you move on to test number two where they're going to show it to a a larger group of your audience, larger test size. And let's say you pass that test, like meaning that people engage with it. Then they're going to show it to your audience and they're going to start mixing in some people who do not follow you. They're going to start testing it on people who don't follow you to see how much they like that content. You pass that test, then you go to number test number four. still some of your audience, but now you're going to a lot more people who don't follow you. We don't know how many tests there are, but it works like this. And then you pass this. Now you're sending to a lot of people. This is when you start to go viral. When people who don't follow you are getting recommended your stuff, this is when you start to go viral. And your your followers will still see it, too. But now you'll be more new people than old people. Now, here's the reason why buying followers is bad. If you buy followers and they they don't engage with your stuff, you won't make it out the first test and you damn sure won't make it out the second. So, you'll never get to the part where your stuff can go viral. So, buying followers is easy way to kill your account. Radio ads, we're going to put that on D. Like, [\h__\h] you doing, right? Um, newspaper ads, D influencer shoutouts. This is not bad. This is actually not bad. You can pay for shout outs. I wouldn't start here. If you're already making money, I'll put this at like B tier. if you're already making money and you can make you can make this work and some some followers especially if it's targeted pages. So if you're a fitness influencer, you get some some big random fitness pages to shout your stuff out to shout you out. In fact, we did this with the homie Splash, man. He had like an athletic clothing line that he was starting and we got some athletic pages to shout out his stuff and he started making sales and we coupled that with some retargeting ads. This is back when he was in high school, man. And I was helping him make 10K a month. Let's go with uh affiliate programs. Now, this doesn't work that well for online trainers, but I've seen it work really well for other online businesses. I've never seen it work for online training. But for other businesses, this works really well. This is when you get you hire other people to promote your product or service, you don't even hire them. Like, they promote your product or service. The revenue that comes from their followers, they get a commission on. It's like ads. You only pay for what you get. It's different than ads because you're going to a warm audience, but it's somebody else's warm audience. You could piggyback off the trust they have with their audience. So, this can work. I haven't seen it work for online trainers, but for other business, I've seen it work really well. Even for like my businesses, I've done it done affiliate deals with other influencers, other businesses. It brought me in a lot of lot of money. I've done affiliate stuff with other people where I promoted their stuff and mutually advantageous email marketing. Man, if you can get this down, this is S to it, too. This is S to it. Like online trainers, they just ignore email marketing. It's perceived as difficult to set up some sort of CRM. If you can just [\h__\h] sit down for a weekend and set up a CRM where you can start, you know, collecting emails and then start emailing your list, you can make a lot of money. I've made millions email marketing. Literally millions. People think that email marketing doesn't work. Listen, go to Target, they're going to ask for your email. Why is a multi-billion dollar company asking for your email? You think they doing this [\h__\h] cuz it don't work? Cuz it don't make them no money. You don't think they tested that [\h__\h] I bought my girl something for Victoria's Secret. They asked for my email. I'm like, "No." But why you think they're doing it? Money to be made. Email marketing. I'm telling you, it's S tier. Organic content. When done right, organic content is S tier. This is It's probably the foundation, especially if you're an online trainer. If you have the right organic content, you got to really know what you're doing. I got a free ebook, link in description, called uh the ten commandments of online training, and it'll show you how build your whole online fitness business, but we talk about building organic content that actually brings you in sales and makes you money. Click the link in the description to check that out. Uh, but or organic content and this is how I made my first million. There's organic content with the email. These two together help me make my first million. Cold DMs. I'm putting this at E tier. You should never be sending cold DMs. Never. You never want to do that. It does not work. Paid ads. This is a tier. If you can figure it out, if you can do it, this is a tier. You'll make a lot of money with paid ads. But most most online trainers, they don't do it. And if they do do it, they just hit the boost post. That [\h__\h] don't work. You got to really go into the ads manager, the meta ads manager. You don't hit that. Don't ever hit that boost button on Instagram. That was designed to steal money from people who are too lazy to learn how to really run ads in the ads manager. Hosting challenges. Okay, this works for a lot of online business. I've seen this work. These challenges work for a lot of people. Online trainers, it only works for women. So, I have a a lot of data to support this. It works really well for women doing challenges, fitness challenges, but for men it almost never works. I don't know why it's like this, but this is something like we told all the men in a high ticket trainer, that's my group. I teach people how to grow their online fitness business. We told all the men, hey, you guys can confidently stop doing challenges, but women, y'all should keep doing it. And this would be like you let people in the challenge free for free or or cheap and then you you give them some sort of protocol everybody some sort of protocol and at the end you sell them into your training. There's a certain way to do that that we teach but it works really well for women. For men not so much. Webinars. Webinars work great for most businesses. They're not great for online training. So I'm going to put it at B tier. They're really good for a lot of online businesses but not necessarily for coaches. They're they're really only good if you're selling a course. But if you're selling like real coaching with someone, webinars aren't always the best way to do it. Podcast appearances B tier cuz it really depends on the podcast, you know. Now, if you if you can get on Joe Rogan, then it's S tier, right? But the majority of podcast ain't Joe Rogan. So, I'm going to put it at the average SEO like SEO [\h__\h] This is like C tier. Maybe this is like people writing blogs and [\h__\h] This was cool like maybe 10, 15 years ago. People are doing less searching on Google now and more searching on chat GBT. Even Google has AI mode, right? You seen that [\h__\h] People are searching with AI more than they are on Google. So, your [\h__\h] ain't going to be ranking like that anymore. Uh, building a community. This is Btier. I I tell all my trainers to to to build some sort of community maybe in, you know, for other business. A lot of businesses do it in school. I tell my trainers to do it. Build a Facebook group or something. It's Btier. It's fine. It's not great. It's good though. This is a term I coin called lead to like this is S tier. If you're any kind of coach, especially online trainer, what I say when you're first starting out, you're posting content, anyone who likes one of your posts, anyone who comments, anyone who follows you, you should DM them. And it's better if you do a video. So, if somebody follows you, you I want you to break out your phone, be like, "Yo, what's going on, Demarcus? Thanks for the follow. Let me know what help you need, you know, getting in shape or what, whatever you do, like really connect with everyone." Somebody leaves a comment. Yo, Lorenzo, thanks for commenting on my post, man. Are you trying to build muscle or you just enjoying the content, right? Say something like that. or if they just hit the like button on your [\h__\h] you should DM them. Yo, Jaquan, that's a lead. The reason you want to send a video so they know it's not automated and it's more personal. And then start a conversation with them. If they say they just enjoying the content, then say, "All right, man. Thanks, bro." Right? If they say they're trying to lose fat or whatever, whatever you help people do, you get into a conversation with them, talk to them a little, get them on a sales call, sell them your package. I've seen trainers in my in my program they have like a th00and 2,000 followers 10 20k a month just from doing that. Mo most people they get 100 likes on a post and they're like oh man only got 100 likes like [\h__\h] that's 100 potential leads right there but people don't think about it like that but if you do you can make a lot of money we call it lead to like any engagement you have this is how you make money with a small following and then create a lead magnet lead mag this is S tier one thing I tell my students to do is to create what we call lead magnets so a lot of times people don't want to sound salesy they're afraid to to come off like spammy or sleazy or whatever one lead to like helps with that because you don't even have to [\h__\h] pitch anything. You could just give some good advice, [\h__\h] lead a like on everybody who comments with them and now you selling them private. A more proactive way is you have a lead magnet. What that is is you put together some sort of free pamphlet, video training, ebook that helps them accomplish their goals. You say you give it to them for free. Let me show you an example. That's her. This is Jennifer. She made over $100,000 her first five months in my program, High Ticket Trainer, and she helps moms get in shape, right? So, this is just a post. So, all she's doing is giving advice. Giving advice, giving advice, showing a workout. Boom. At the end, she says, "Download my free fat loss guide for busy moms." Boom, boom, boom. Comment fat loss and I send it to you. Boom. Fat. Look at all these people comment fat loss. These is leads. These are leads. And then her lead magnet is is designed not only help them with whatever problem they have, but it also there's tons of testimonials from her clients. So, it's it's a sales letter as well. It's helpful, but it's a sales letter, right? But it's more helpful than the sales letter. Like even if somebody reads it and they don't hire her as a coach, they'll still be like, "Man, that was some good information. I'm glad I had that." You don't want it to just be a sales letter. It serves as a way to help sell her product. And this is a way that you can covertly sell. You want to write something good, but you don't care if they read it or not. And most people won't. What happens is you just want permission to DM them cuz now you can start a conversation with them. And now you got a new lead. This is one of the the cheat codes. This works really, really well. And then you couple that with the lead to like strategy, you should be able to book a ton of calls with people, even if you have a small following, man. And then the beauty of having a small following is that people will feel like it's more personal cuz it is. So this is the tier list, right? So you can ignore everything in D. You can ignore everything in C. B is cool. This is stuff you can do after you made some money. A is stuff you can do after you made some money. These are the ones you want to focus on first. And lead to like and lead magnet, they're probably the best ones. But focus on all these before you start doing ads, before you start looking for shoutouts, affiliates, start making some money doing that. In fact, I tell my students that I don't want them to run ads until they're making 10K a month organically. Cuz if you're leading a like, you you can get to 10K a month even with a small following. Even if you're only getting 50 likes a post with online training, the way I teach it, say you're charging $80 a week, which is not a lot of money, $80 a week. If you have 25 clients, you charge them $80 a week for 52 weeks a year. You keep an average of 25 clients for 52 weeks, you'll make $104,000 a year. You don't need paid ads to get 25 clients. All you need to do is [\h__\h] lead the like. But you got to know what to post. You got to have the right niche, right? You got to have the right target market. And you got to know how to post in a way that's going to get you clients instead of doing what what have you been doing that's not getting you clients. If you want to learn how to do that, I got a free ebook called the Ten Commandments of Online Training. show you exactly how to do it. The link is in the description.