This stuff's obviously a lot more natural, so they actually help benefit people, get them better. So, they don't really like that in the what we call the big pharma world because it's not insurance based. So, they're not getting their kickbacks. You know what I mean? Got it. Tell us about peptides. Like, tell what are they and how can they make be a better version of me? So, the beautiful thing about peptides really is just they're they're a series of amino acids almost like a chain linking everything together. So, let's say for instance, when you work out, most people know what branch chain amino acids are. They're the building blocks of protein. Most people take their amino acids every day before they go to the gym to help them break down protein to turn that into muscle. Well, peptides are kind of they're different, but they are they are synthetically derived, but they're naturally already in the body. And what they do is they're called sacritog. So, peptides boost or upregulate what's already in a sense functioning in your body. So, obviously, you've got oral peptides, you've got injectable peptides, um you know, but they're not say steroids or anything like that. Uh, so the big difference there, you know, for the people out there that don't know too much about it, like steroids have what we call a negative feedback loop. When I mean steroids, I mean like, you know, testosterone. So say if I'm taking testosterone and I start taking it, well, my body is going to send signals and say, "Hey, we're getting plenty of testosterone from an outside source exogenously." So your brain will signal your, you know, testicles to stop making your natural testosterone. So then obviously if you quit taking it, boom, you're shut down. They call that hypogonatism, you know, in the male TRT world. So, that's obviously a bad thing that obviously your libido is going to have issues. You're going to gain weight, things like that. Well, peptides, the awesome thing about them is you can take peptides and again, they're going to boost you from your natural level of good up to what we call superhuman. Come on now. And the cool thing is if you quit, if you stop taking them, you don't crash out like testosterone and go to zero. You'll just slowly come back down to kind of what your natural level would be. But again, most people that take them, you're still going to keep all of the muscle that you gain, the fat that you lost, you know, whatever peptide you're taking, you're going to continue to see those benefits for a pretty good while. And these are legal, right? Correct. So, like obviously they're not FDA approved. Okay. And obviously now, you know, we got uh the new president coming in. They're going to kick back everything that, you know, the previous ones did to kind of in a sense shut that down cuz everybody in the healthcare industry, you know, they want you to just use insurance. They want you Oh, really? Yeah. drug after drug, treat symptom after symptom, next thing you know, you're on 10 medications. Well, you know, this stuff's obviously a lot more natural. So, they actually help benefit people, get them better. So, they don't really like that in the what we call the big pharma world because it's not insurancebased. So, they're not getting their kickbacks. You know what I mean? I mean, I think let's say just for instance, most people out there like cancer. I mean, it's like a hundred billion dollar business a year. They've been coming out with a cancer cure forever. You know what I mean? If they come up with a cure, a true cure, and they have it, they're just not letting people take it because if they do, they've lost all that money. My boy uh Dr. Dominic D Augustino, he does he cancer research, right? And there's studies that publish he put people on keto and it kills the cancer cells. Yeah. Cuz so it's like but then there's a bunch of guys out there that have different research doing whether it's keto or like a full vegetarian style diet with just, you know, fruits and vegetables that Yeah. same thing. Kills cancer cells because obviously it grows more based off of your processed sugars and glycogen. So yeah. Yeah. It needs glucose. So if you starve it out, you're going to kill the cancer cells. That's the most simple thing in the world. The matrix don't don't want us to know about these peptides. Exactly. All right. So So there's peptides, correct, correct me if I'm wrong. There's peptides that can help you get bigger muscles, help you lose fat, but there's also peptides that help heal injuries, help mental clarity. What What are some of the stuff that So you've got subsets. Yeah, there's all types of different peptides. So like I said, they're kind of the chain of amino acids, which just like when you're a kid putting Legos together, you can make all kind of [\h__\h] So it's, you know, you can put all these different peptides together. They've researched a lot of them for different benefits. The most popular one out there, I think in the world, we sell the most of it, is our BPC-157 and then TB-500. Those are two different ones, but in combination, they really it's it's the wolverine peptide. Like I said, Wolverine can't die. You can stab him, you can cut him, you know, other than just probably chopping his head off. He can't die. You know what I mean? So, it's like they call it the wolverine peptide because it's incredible. I mean, it heals up injuries. So, let's say you you went to the gym tomorrow and you tore your meniscus in your knee. Well, we could start doing BPC TB injections in the knee. More than likely four to 6 weeks later that injury is going to be healed up. Rotator cuff tears. And well, how long would that take without like not if you just like So a lot a lot of the time they would need surgery. You can even avoid surgeries. Yeah. A lot of guys with meniscus need to have microscopic surgery. My dad's an orthopedic surgeon. They'd go in and obviously like scope it, debreed it, which means kind of clean the area up, get the debris that tore off out of there so it doesn't catch. You know, you would need at least something like that. And a lot of time you can Yeah. do BPC TV 500 together for a certain amount of time and they get healed faster. Exactly. I mean, I tore my uh my quad about two years ago on the side. I mean, black and blue. Hey, yeah, it's a stage two tear. Doesn't need surgery, but I mean, it's if this is a natural muscle together, it's torn almost all the way kind of the edges. Not fully apart, but like right hanging on the edge, you know? They're like, "Hey, 3 to 6 months to be 100%." I mean, I was back in the gym doing 135 squats in 4 weeks. Four weeks and I was injecting in the peptides every day. So, let me ask a question. So I used to do a lot of like calisthenic stuff, you know, like bar stars and like a lot of that stuff. And so I muscle ups. Oh, like kills the elbows and wrists and joints. And then I had got kind of heavy, you know, like I I put on a lot of muscle and I was and I was showing off. I was doing the human flag where you grab a pole and hold yourself sideways. And I did that like this and my [\h__\h] biceps tweaked it, bro. I I went to the emergency room. Yeah. I thought you tore it or something. Yeah. I didn't tear it, but it's never been right since then. So you're telling me if I take this stuff it'll it it'll heal up? Yeah. Exactly. So if you've still got some residual issue damage, scar tissue, it can kind of help. Number one, the biggest thing with that would be getting rid of the pain. If you're still just having daily pain when you train, you know, it's discomfort more so I had I had stem cells, not stem cells. It was the other thing. It's like stem cells, but it's not PRP, but they they couldn't get the the actual stem cells. So it was something else. And they and they they they put that in there and it was better, but it's not healed. But yeah, exactly. I mean the the BPCTB combo. So I mean you know the biggest benefits from it is going to be you know if you have cortisol damage or adrenal insufficiency which means your adrenal glands control some of your blood sugar sleep regulation how tired you feel. I mean it heals that up. Gut damage pain obviously tendon damage panacea. Yeah it's just it's just all again wolverine peptide it's going to just heal you up. It has a ton of benefits but I mean the biggest realistically in my opinion none. I mean overall generally peptides just like if you took a supplement too much I mean potentially over a really long time you could have a little bit of issue with your kidneys you know if you're healthy you're drinking water you're eating proper things like that you're not really going to have any negative side effects the biggest negative side effect from some of the peptides would be just when you do your injection you might get kind of flushed feeling with something like the CJC-1295 mix you'll kind of just almost feel like you took nice and you'll get kind of a little tingly feeling almost like you take pre-workout I'm You get that nice and you get that feeling for four or five minutes. That's how you know you took it. Oh yeah, let's go. So kind of leading into that one, the CJC if a Morland is an awesome one. We got we got we got we got the the BPC-157 TB-500. That's again that's a combo blend. It's two different ones, but again synergistically they're amazing together. That's Wolverine. The CJC-1295. These who comes up with these names the R2-D2. Like you said if you start calling out the chemical names they're so long and you know that you're just like what? Most people layman's terms aren't going to know. TJC 1295. And what does this do? And that one again, there's a DAC version and a NO DACK. So ours is a NO DACK. It means it's it changes the halflife. If people know what halflife is, how long it's in your body or i.e. your bloodstream before it gets out. So like what's what's the purpose? Purpose of the CJC 1295N mix is going to be to me that's the end all beall peptide. If you're a starter, you want to start with a peptide. That's the one for growth hormone. So it's a growth hormone sacritog. So it's going to increase growth hormone levels which is going to help with deeper rim sleep, better recovery, obviously better workouts. Huge thing is going to be hair, skin, and nail health. Massive amounts of collagen produced. So it's going to really obviously reverse the aging to an extent. So So it's anti-aging. Exactly. So CJC Morland in my opinion is kind of the end all beall if you're starting boom. That's the first women taking this women. Yeah. It's safe for men and women. Incredible for them. Again, same thing. No. So people So I I would imagine there's some people taking that one just for like beauty stuff. Exactly. We we have one specifically formula I told you about earlier we'll get into. It's like the end all be all for anti-aging. But yes, a lot of people take the CJC Morland for just the women love it for the anti-aging and fat loss obviously. Oh, so how how long would it take you to start noticing the effects? Now again, I can't speak for everyone's product because of obviously quality, potency, purity, things like that. Yeah. ours. I mean, uh, this, um, fitness influencer pro bikini, uh, woman the other day, she purchased a bottle. She' taken peptides in the past, you know, she was using literally like this, the CBD, all kinds of supplements to sleep, okay? Just to go to sleep at night. She took the CJC 12.95 every morning. I said, "Look, the first night, don't take any of those other supplements you were taking. Just do the peptide cuz again, it helps you get into rim sleep, deep sleep, all that." She took it. I mean, she was like, "Dr. Russ, that was the best sleep I've had in like 9 years. Incredible. I woke up. I feel amazing. So again, you're going to notice results from these peptides almost immediately with a lot of them. Wow. Um that's what I love about them. I mean, you just, you know, like you said, you inject the CDC, you're going to get that flush feeling. You know it's working. And then obviously you take that one before bed. You know, we recommend taking you could do it pre-workout or before bed. Depends on kind of the program that wherever you're getting it from, whichever doctor's prescribing it, etc. How you tailor your program. It's going to be a little different for everybody. But yeah, I mean, at night, it's incredible for sleep. You don't really get any negative side effects. You know, for me, I've tried CBD, Del. I don't like the the the body experience I get or just the groggginess the next day, you know, things like that. I I remember, man, I [\h__\h] my back up and and then I was at some fitness expo and I met this com these people who had like a CBD company. They gave me some drops and they gave me the the thing to rub the cream. Yeah. The topical. Yo, the next day I felt perfect. So, it's like they do it can work, but you're saying this works better than that and has more benefits. Exactly. In my opinion, it does. And like I said, it depends on what you're really therapeutically wanting to use it for. Obviously, CBD locally on an injury site or like you said, taking it to sleep's good, but you're getting a plethora of benefits from, you know, the peptides. Like I said, it's not just one thing. Like you said, you're getting sleep. You're getting and collagen. So, like, how long does it take people to start looking older? I'm getting old, man. I want I want I want to ride out this influencer [\h__\h] as long as possible, man. Would this slow down my aging even more? Oh, big time. Yeah. And like I said, we can actually reverse it. I know a lot of people, you know. Oh, [\h__\h] Really? and it's testable to show it and there's no side effects for this [\h__\h] I don't want to guarantee that. Everyone's a little different. Like you said, obviously, obviously, if you already have if you got cancer or if you have a kidney disorder, something like that. I'm not saying that you wouldn't potentially have problems with it. But if you're a healthy individual, there's next to no side effects. No worse than taking a bunch of oral supplements or something else over the counter, Advil every day that's damaging your liver. It's definitely no worse than things like that. Cuz again, most people get scared of it because they're like, "Oh, it's a peptide." You got to inject it. There's not enough research and you're injecting. Inject all these, right? Exactly. It's a subcutaneous injection with a little bitty insulin needle just like if you had diabetes and you're injecting your insulin. So again, it's like a mosquito bite. You don't feel it. But yeah, people sometimes get kind of thrown off by that and they're like, "Well, it's injectable with there's no way it can be safe." And I'm like, "Okay, you know, but and some people are just scared of needles, you know, and so there is obviously oral versions of certain peptides, too." So that's an option for the the goers that don't like needles. Oh, give me give me some more peptides and some more [\h__\h] Our Tessa Morland is one of our other top sellers, obviously. Really good product. So what is that? It's similar to the CJCForin but the tessamorin again another growth hormone secrettog but it specifically targets the atapost tissue or the fat cells in the abdominal area. So again when you inject that one it's going to burn fat specifically around the abdominal trunkal area. Oh well I I've always heard as a trainer my whole life that you can't burn fat in one spot. I mean not naturally but when you take yeah the tesimorin is it's dude it's crazy. is one of our top sellers. But yeah, it's going to it targets the fat cells in the abdominal area. And the thing I like about it for like bodybuilders or big guys like me or you, you know, we love to walk around having that pump feeling filled out cuz again, you're keto, you don't eat carbs. So for you, it's a little harder in my opinion, I think, to get pumps in the gym cuz you don't have as much of that glycogen storage, but you want to get that in the gym. You want to look pumped up all the time, veins showing. So Tesla is incredible for that. I mean, the pumps are out of this world. I mean like people who take preworkouts and all these citrine, lcitrilline and arginine, they're trying to get their pumps in the gym because obviously the more blood flow to the muscle tissue. Yeah. The more it grows, the more nutrients it gets. So the Tesamoin is like the king at that for pumps. It's incredible. You inject fat loss. Fat loss and pump. So again, it's huge for muscle building. To me, it's like it's like one of those it's 50/50. It's like 50% fat loss, 50% muscle building. Oh, it helps you build muscle, too. Okay. Incredible. Yeah. All these growth hormone and peptides are going to help you put on lean muscle mass, burn body fat, but just like I said, certain ones are, you know, obviously synthesized to do certain things. So the test is hugely for the abdominal body. Is there anything to help with like mental clarity andor intelligence? Can you make me smarter with a max se MAX that peptide? I mean, they they have a bunch of studies on it. Yep. It's for cognitive ability. It can help fight Alzheimer's, dementia, things like that. Pretty awesome stuff. uh even Parkinson's a little with with things of that nature. Again, they're still doing a lot of studies on these peptides. I mean, there's ongoing research every day. I took it. I mean, it's like taking Adderall. I've taken almost every peptide test. You said it's like Aderal. Yeah, the Seax. I mean, I had to take half dose. Now, the negative side effect on that one, I would say. The only thing I notic is I get a little bit of a headache with it, but I think it's because it's so strong. I mean, it's like making your brain better. Yeah. It's like mental clarity, uh, cognitive abilities. Definitely super focused. Like I was saying, taking a fedin, you know, and caffeine. jacked. We're counting the wrinkles on our steering wheels. So locked in. It's that feeling and it's a peptide. Um but obviously much healthier for you. Are there people taking it for like just work like stock brokers or [\h__\h] traders and Exactly. You can take it almost like you said more therapeutically. You may not necessarily need it cuz you're not old like me. You just want to function more efficiently and have top of my game. Exactly. Yeah. You wake up in the morning, boom, take your smacks all day long. You're locked in. You know what I mean? Making money, coming up with new ideas. It'll make you more creative. I mean, it's the one I'm most interested in. The smack is pretty awesome [\h__\h] bro. It's It's fire. You just got to be careful with it because it is really strong. How long? Like I just took half a dose. I was doing the full dose. It was too strong. Too strong. Too much. Because I'm really sensitive though, too. I don't do caffeine and things like that. Oh. So, you know, so you probably be fine with the full dose. I take like 1,000 milligs of caffeine every day for fun. I could take two 300. I'm I'd be jumping out of the building right now. Oh, those rookie numbers. You got to pump those numbers up, man. Yo, listen. Where can people find out more information about you, brother? So my handle's druss obviously you click my link tree I've got my website for my peptides which is vitalps.com if you want to go to one of my clinics let's say you wanted blood work we can actually we have concierge philotamist that literally come directly to you at your business or your home that's vitalforceal.com um we're actually in the process now I've got contracts waiting attorney stuff we're trying to get another clinic open down here in Florida so we do tele medicine out of Florida but we don't have an actual location So, I'm doing the peptide company obviously more wholesale online and then uh you know more tele medicine down here. That's why I moved down. But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're we're we're basically spreading out this year. We're scaling now. It sounds good, brother. Listen, man. This has been another episode. Y'all make sure y'all tap in to the homie.