Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter and be Bella. Beautiful Bella. Uh, check me out. I've been back on my fighting [\h__\h] right? So, I'm taking lessons boxing and kickboxing from this dude. He's he's like actually a real fighter. His parents own a goddamn dojo. He's been fighting all his life. He's got some fights coming up, like some real MMA cage fights. And so, I've been training with this dude. This session we worked on kicks, you know, kickboxing. It was more a kickboxing session. Oh, but before we get into that, let me show you some of the testimonials I got right here, man. I got this dude sent this to me on Instagram, DM me. He lost over 30 lbs with the quickness. We got this dude, man. This dude, this dude got ripped fast, you know, quick, fast, and in a hurry. If you're serious about making transformation this year, click the link in the description, brotories.com/trformations. We got all the tools you need to make this year the best year of your life as far as fitness is concerned. Anyway, make serious change. Anyway, let's get into the workout. Bella filmed the workout. And so she was laughing at me while I was doing it cuz I So first first thing he did, he kind of was showing me how to wrap my hand. When I used to box, he wrapped it around my thumb. He says they don't do that no more. So he kept the thumb and he just wanted to protect this area and he made like a little pad. So he was just showing me that new technique that I was aware of. Then we jump rope for a while. We were doing it for rounds and he showed me how to do the cross cuz I didn't know how to do it. I got it a few times then. But then I kept [\h__\h] it up. Every time I dropped it, he made me do push-ups. If if I dropped one handle, it was 20. If I dropped two, it was 40. And then, so we did that for a few rounds, rounds of three minutes. That was kind of intense within itself. And we worked on footwork. It was me jumping in and out the box, going forward, then doing the shuffle in and out the box. And he said, you know, that's that's the beginner stuff. As we advance, I'll do more advanced stuff. You'll see me getting better, man. My footwork ain't nice right now. None of I'm not good at any of this [\h__\h] right now. But Bella's going to be filming it all time. And she also takes snaps on my Snapchat. So, you follow me on Snapchat, Killer Carter 187. Uh, you'll be able to see the progression. I'm in there a few times a week, man, working on my kickboxing. Then, we worked on kicking. So, just a standard kick. It's different. The way he has kick is different than what I learned when I used to do kickboxing. He says, "Lift up on this leg and then turn and kick with this leg. What I used to do is my my old teacher told me to step forward and like turn this foot in." And then, so he has me trying working on different techniques. So, it took me a while to to kind of get it. And I think I was starting to get it at the end. a little bit. He also had me do it with the left leg too and with the bit I had to switch, learn how to shuffle and then do the same thing. And once I started to get it, he had me doing pyramid. So I had to kick one, kick it twice real fast, then kick it three times real fast, then kick it four times real fast, then kick it five times real fast, and then back down the period, then kick it four times real fast, then kick it three times real fast, then kick it twice real fast, then kick it one time fast. We did that with both legs. All right, then. Oh, then he strapped that [\h__\h] thing. Oh yeah, that resistance band to my ankle and I had to kick with that with some resistance. So that was kind of cool. That was interesting. I never done that before. So we were doing that with both legs. Then we did it with the knee. Then he had me doing it on the dummy on the wall. Then his student came. Remember his other student. Mhm. This dude is older. You wouldn't think you think nothing. Just a regular guy, office guy. Yeah. Then they showed him how how good he can kick and that [\h__\h] looked like it would punish you. So, I mean, listen, I know you guys are watching this and you think I suck because I do, right? I used to do some of this [\h__\h] when I was younger, but I'm rusty, so I'm just trying to get back in it. I keep doing the progressions and Bella's there filming and she's also taking the snaps. Uh my follow me on Snap Killer Carter 187. Follow Bella on Snap. What's yours again? Bella Rabbit. And Rabbit, it's spelled R A H B E K. Uh she's on the she's a Brolabs team athlete. You know what I'm saying? So, you'll be seeing a lot more of her going forward. A lot of people ask I I trained fasted like I hadn't eaten anything. All I had was water and then but before I had some Revolt BCAAs to prevent the breakdown of muscle. This is a new product made by my company bro Laboratories and T-Rex extreme for energy and to burn more fat. If you want more information about these products, go to bro Laboratories.com. That link will be in the description as well. Again, if you're trying to get ripped this year, take the transformation challenge. Don't [\h__\h] this up. You know, I got aggressive goals this year. That's why we going so hard. That was that was my second workout that day. But I did three workouts that day. I worked out when I first woke up. I did that workout in the middle of day. Then I lift the weights at night. I'm going [\h__\h] hard this year. And you ain't got to go that hard. But you know, you need to take your goals seriously. If one of your goals is to get the best body of your life this year, then click the link in the description and we'll give you all the tools you need to accomplish that. All right. Peace.