I'm in Washington DC now with one of the leading YouTube fitness instructors, Brandon Carter. We went for lunch on Ust Street where we had some sandwiches and coffee. And after a short walk, we're now in Meridian Park, which you can see in the background and the fountains and such. And I just wanted to meet with him today just to ask him a few things. And one thing I wanted to start off with is you may not know Brandon Carter used to live here. He used to live in DC and can you tell us a little bit about that? What were your experiences like here? Yeah, man. When I was in DC, I I uh graduated from uh school. I graduated from school in uh 2004. So, that was like, you know, over 10 years ago. And uh my time here though, it was a little different, right? Because Howard University, there's at there's at least when I was there, they were saying it was like 12 girls to every guy. And that was like a big reason why I chose that school. I got accepted into other schools, like good schools, Depal University. Uh I almost went to Michigan State. I was excited about that because they won the final four that year. But I said, "Nah, man. 12 girls every like those odds." That's why I came to DC. It's a lot different now. It's like it seems uh safer. It's like before I remember I remember like going outside and it seemed like homeless people would rush me like it was a [\h__\h] blitz. It's like I'm goddamn like I'm uh Aaron Rogers and I'm trying to like avoid getting sacked by some homeless people for money. And I haven't seen that too much. It's a little different. Less homeless people. One thing that has changed since I've lived here, I've been away for about 6 years now. Is that there's a lot of corporate chains. I see a lot of Whole Foods, a lot of Starbucks. Do you think that has changed the character of the city? Yeah, it's definitely changed. It's all right. I I I see it as good and bad. Like it's good as far as bad. Like it's safer. It seems safer around here. Like I my car probably got broken into on a monthly basis when I was here. And it seems like it's probably not that's probably not the issue now. But now it's more like it's more corporate, you know, and like mainstream and less like it's not we were talking about earlier, it's not as hip, you know what I'm saying? It's more like it's just it's more cookie cutter now, you know? It's a lot more cookie cutter now. And uh before it had a little more little more character, uniqueness, you know, you know, it's not it's not the same DC I I remember. Now this is like just any town USA. So I know that you live in New York City right now. What would you say are some of the differences between DC and New York? Well, the main difference I would say the main difference is just New York is more densely populated, but like there's also like hotter chicks just walking around. And that's because a lot of that's just because New York is like the hot literally the hottest women in the world come to New York to be famous or models or whatever, you know? So, there's a lot of that, but it's just it's just density, density, size. It's like you it's just like we on one of the busiest streets and it look it would be like a you'll never see like Manhattan look like that, you know. Do you think there's a kind of character or personality of man who chooses to live in DC versus New York? Is one city better for a certain type of man compared to the other? DC is a little more laidback. You know, New York is kind of I like it because I'm I'm kind of type A a little bit. So, like I like to feel that little stress and intensity. But I mean DC is expensive though. Like there's people who are like go-getters and stuff like out here too, but you can go out into like Maryland or or Virginia where things might be a little calmer. Uh but New York's New York's more intense. But you know, but if you're going for like but as far as like games concerned, if you're going for volume, there's no city better than New York except for maybe like London maybe for volume, you know, like just sheer volume. What? I don't know. Maybe. But in New York, since it's more expensive, do you have to work harder? Yeah. Yeah. It's expensive. So, like if you don't if you don't Yeah. I guess it's the personality, man. You got to you got to either see me, I found a loophole. I work I work for myself and I I have online business exclusively. So, like I don't really probably work as hard as like the average guy 9 to5 is probably killing them. But I found a loophole. So, like I don't know. But even still, if I live somewhere else, I'd get more for my money, you know? So, if I live like s in the south or Texas, the middle of nowhere, Texas, you know, I can do some I'd probably have a bigger, better house if that was the goal. So, you've had the opportunity to travel a lot due to your fitness jobs. And what do you think is the best city for guys? Is there one that really stands out? You know what? I had a lot of good experience in Atlanta. Atlanta. It's weird. It's weird just because but I think it's cuz like or this is like a weird race dynamic, but like it seems like the they were a light-skinned black guy like it's still like that slave mentality like you're like the [\h__\h] still in Atlanta. No [\h__\h] No [\h__\h] So like like the like like black girls think like you're the [\h__\h] if you're like so that that but that's in particular to me New York and just in general just for volume just like you can just get the volume in New York like you can't you get volume in New York like you can't get anywhere else if that's your and I feel like no matter what kind of skill you have you you can speak on this whether you have skills or not if you're if you if you go after the if you go after the volume you'll be successful but I like I mean I You know, I've only lived in big cities, man. So, New York, Miami. Atlanta's the smallest city I've ever lived. But is Atlanta a dark city? Is it a lot of black people? Nah. Nah. I mean, there's a lot of white girls in Atlanta, too. Like, like, you know, I'm pretty popular. I I did I did well with white girls, too, you know. And is there any cities that you want to check out that you've heard some good things? The cities you talk about? You know what I'm saying? The things you go to uh the Eastern Europe and stuff, you know. All right. Now, let's get into some fitness. What do you think is the biggest mistake that guys into bodybuilding, into lifting weights are making right now? The the main mistake I see is all right. So, there's a few, but lot the main mistake is them not getting into a program at all. Like, they're just going in there, h let me lift some do some [\h__\h] curls or some some some shrugs. It's like especially the kids, the young high school kids, they love shrugs, man. They're always doing dumbbell shrugs. I'm like, I don't know. All right, man. I mean, I guess they the curls and shrugs. They love them. So, like I can tell they're just in there doing random [\h__\h] you know? And they're not following a protocol. Like, there's a reason like you want to follow a a proven protocol. You know what I'm saying? Like, you don't want to just go in there and try to make [\h__\h] up or you try to figure it out. You don't have to cuz it's been laid out for you. Someone has done it. do what's worked for some people or at least try it. You know what I'm saying? Try try something instead of that's I think that's the biggest thing. They just go in there doing random [\h__\h] and random random actions get random results. Yeah. Now, a lot of men they start their bodybuilding program with either starting strength or convict conditioning. Do you think those are good starting points for men? I love starting strength. I feel like everybody that should be like men should have to read it, have to go through go through the program in in a high school or something, you know, like that's the barbell bible. Like even now I refer to it when I like. So I love I think those are really good like especially basic programs or kind of the conditioning I'm not as familiar with, but I I would I know it's a it's a body weight type of uh protocol. So I mean a lot of guys start with body weight, especially if they don't have access to a gym. So, anything's better than nothing, you know? But at least it's a protocol and that's better than just doing random [\h__\h] Is there an alternative maybe beyond those two books that you think would serve men better? Or is Starting Strength really the best option that men getting into fitness have? I think Starting Strength is is good for a lot of guys, you know, because it's it's it's accessible. You can get it the book for cheap. It's has a track record. Uh but it depends on what your goals are, right? If your goals are to lose fat, then you might want to do something else. Like I I I I have a program called Full Body Blitz, you know, but I'm not just trying to pl plug my own [\h__\h] but it's a good place to start, man. Or or whatever. Like I have a book on Amazon. It's 99 cents. That's the cheapest. They'll let me put it on Amazon. Basically free. And it's uh Ultimate Cuts if you're trying to lose weight. Or I have another one for building mass. It's on Amazon. Ultimate Mass. And it's 99 cents. It's like I'm not trying to like make a bunch of money off it. It's just, you know, that's what it's 99 cents. And I think those are good starts. But it doesn't matter. I mean, if you want to do P90X or uh goddamn uh Insanity or [\h__\h] uh six-pack six-pack shortcuts, whatever, Mike Chang, whatever. Whatever you want to do. It's like anything, even a bad program is better than following no program at all. I I really believe that. You know, what are some of the new trends that are coming out? Because one thing that I got into in the past few years is intermittent fasting and that was a new thing for me to get into. Do you see anything on the horizon? What's the next big thing in bodybuilding? When I first heard about intermittent fasting, I was reluctant to even try it, you know, right? Cuz I I come from the old I'm I'm older. I come from the school like, yo, six meals a day. And I thought it was just a fad. But then I just decided to just give it a shot and I I started getting good results with it. And I I I I liked it as far as my pro my productivity increased like dramatically and I found that food slows me down a little bit even even my brain or and there's science behind it like the different nervous system works sympathetic nervous system and I don't want to get on into all that but there there's a science behind it you know and but anyway what I've been experimenting with I don't know but like more uh this is stuff that Greg Pit Plit used to do I don't know if it's new But he he he recommended uh he eat he only ate like two meals a day. He didn't do inter but he and but he ate drank like liquids all day. Like he did juicing and he did uh like different shakes. At first I thought it was [\h__\h] cuz he's sponsored by Metrics and Oh yeah, Greg says drink metrics all day every day. Huh. Yeah. All right. Sounds legit. But I started giving it a shot and I was like, "Oh man, I I I I mean I don't know if this is a good protocol or not. I'm still experimenting with it." I think it's important to try to see what works for you. But so far I like I feel like I'm getting a little stronger and I'm so I'm drinking like mostly like shake a shake in the morning before a workout, a shake after then maybe drinking some uh some juice like uh juice and green vegetables and fruits and drinking a few of those during the day then maybe one meal later in the day and then more shakes and then I haven't figured it out yet. But when I I feel like this liquid [\h__\h] man. It's like it's the same thing with like the it's the same similar to intermittent fasting. What I like about intermittent fasting is like the food slows me down. You know, my people call that the itis and you don't get that with the liquids. I don't get that as much, you know? So, it's like it's similar. Some of the guys, they want to gain a lot of mass. Do you think the liquid shakes will help get them there? That's what I'm saying. Like so what you do is you make the liquid I make the what I've been doing is I've been making the liquids very calorically dense but it's like because it's liquids my body doesn't have to sometimes like beef and stuff your body has to has a hard time digesting them. That's why you get tired cuz your body's using a lot of energy to digest it. But I I make the shakes more calorically dense right with uh I'll put like almond butter in them like two tablespoon almond and then like like maybe two three tablespoons of coconut oil. Now the shake is like almost a thousand like you know 700 500 calories, you know, up to you can make it a thousand each shake if you want. So I feel like I'm getting more calories now cuz food Yeah, cuz the the the the shakes are so dense and I can just chug them. I think this is going to be better for guys who have a hard time if it works. I don't know. I'm still experimenting with it. But I think it'll be better for guys who are hard gainers because it's they can drink the calories. You can drink more than you can eat, right? But I don't I mean I don't have no science or any data or I don't even know that it works. I was hesitant to even say it but because you asked and uh so I I'll report back to you in a month or two. You know based on gaining mass what are some of the best supplements out there that you think are most effective. First of all I just want to perfectly like you don't need supplements that like supplements are there to supp like the name they supplement your diet right diet is the most important thing like by far. You can't you can't outsupplement a bad diet. So if having that said though, just make sure your train is right. I feel like it goes like this. Training is most important. That's paramount. That's like that's it's uh it's imperative. You get your training right and you get your your then you get your diet right and supplements should be the very last thing a guy worries about worries about, right? Cuz you can get you can get it without supplements. But then once you have everything right, then you start worrying about supplements. A lot of guys, the first thing they do is go to GNC when they don't even know what kind of work. You know, they have all this they're eating all this [\h__\h] but that it doesn't that is they say, "Oh, this doesn't work." But it's because no, man, your program doesn't work. Your diet's you can't outsupplement a bad diet. So, what you want to do is not good. What you want to do is uh the supplements that I I feel are good. I think protein I mean, I take protein powder, right? But it's not like magic, right? protein is basically it's it's a whey protein is is a it's a byproduct of the the dairy, you know, the cheese making. Uh so it's like it's [\h__\h] dairy, right? It's just it's basically and it's not magic. You can get your protein any way, right? So, but I take it just because it's easy way to get protein because I'm not going to walk around or I drink a bar take a bars with me because it's easy way to get protein. I'm not going to walk around Manhattan with a bunch of steaks, you know? But uh so I like protein. like uh creatine has been shown to work. Creatine has been shown to work and it's been shown to be pretty safe, you know, like uh and you know what, man, I like caffeine, man. Like caffeine before like training like I I I feel for me it helps me a lot, man. It's like uh there was a time where I was just drinking like black coffee before a workout and that was it. That was like all I took, you know, and I and I made progress with that. Now, actually, you sell a supplement. What are the ingredients in this supplement and what are some of the effects that it has? Does. All right. So, my company uh Pro Laboratories, we have two uh products right now. We have other the whole line is in development, but right now we started with we have a a fat burner and a pre-workout. The the pre-workout is new. It's called Rebellion. And it has about it has a lot of caffeine about four like the the uh it has as much caffeine as about four shots of espresso. That's not for everybody, man. That's not that's that's for I mean you got to if you're an extremist, go for it. If not, then maybe you can like take half a dose. Also has a bunch of amino acids and like these are and these certain amino acids such as uh beta aline, citrine, they help you get that pump, you know that when when you're lifting. So, you know, when you're working out and you get, you know, that's the pump is not the biggest thing in the world, but it's it helps it helps something. I don't even know if it helps you get bigger, but it it's psychologically it helps, you know, and and the caffeine helps you just get a good workout. So, you don't need you don't need it. It's just for me it gives me a edge, but it's I'm not gonna sit here and say you need it's not a magic red drink or anything like that. It's it's just it gives me a little edge, but you can definitely get big without it, you know. Can your supplement help me before I gain beautiful women in Eastern Europe? Will it give me that edge that I need? I think it will. Does caffeine help for you? Help you become more talkative and affable and socialable? If if caffeine helps you then or just getting like a a rush, staying up like late at night. I've taken uh pre-workouts before I I went out, you know, and it's it's helped me. Now, a lot of guys use alcohol to help them in social interactions. It helps to increase their confidence and makes them more social. Does alcohol have that same effect on you? I think alcohol makes me do everything a little worse. like just me, you know, like so I I don't even drink that much like when I'm like I just don't like it as much. When I was younger, I used to like, yeah, let's get [\h__\h] wasted and and but now it's I don't know like caffeine is I like I like alcohol is a downer, you know? I'm more in I like uppers, you know? So caffeine is like I think I think it helps a lot more actually. To see part two of this video, click the link below.