Tell me about Ozimpic. What are the pros, the cons, the benefits? Cuz people ask me about Ozic all the time. I'm not familiar with his you are. Yeah. And let's keep it simple. A lot of people out there just look at one thing. They want to lose weight. You listen to anybody and it's all the rage. Look, everybody's taking it out. But you got negative side effects to everything you do. So again, in my personal opinion, the Oympic, let's say me as a bodybuilder, big guy, I did want to get cut up. It's not going to be my first choice of drug to lose weight. But I would say if I was going to do another competition and I'm the last 6 8 weeks that I'm just eating my damn hands off like I can't control it cuz I'm getting super low calories, no carbs. Oimp could be that drug for me where I could micro dose it daily and it would just help me curb my appetite so I can actually sleep at night. It actually does have good benefits that it reduces kind of inflammation and swelling in the body. It has good benefits and obviously it helps with weight loss too. From what I understand, the only way it really helps with weight loss, it just makes you less hungry in layman's terms. Yeah. I mean, the biggest thing is that it just suppresses the appetite big time based on your dosage obviously things like that. Not again there are that 1% of the population out there too that like a GLP-1 or the GLP-1 mixed with a GIP1. What's the GLP-1? So the GLP-1 is like the Osimpic. That's what Osimpic is. Exactly. And then you have like its big brother which they call it their zeppatide which is a GLP-1 and a GIP. So they just hit different receptors and different things. We won't get into like the scientific portion. No one's going to really understand that. But it's like it being as twice as strong as yellow. And then there's like retride which is like a three in one. So it's super super powerful. So is not even the strongest [\h__\h] So yeah like like your simlutide which is kind of the street name layman's terms that most people understand were oyic. Yeah. The main things it's going to do is suppress appetite but that 1% of the population a lot of people don't know won't react to it at all. Oh really? We have patients come in and they do great on the simagluters oyic. they'll lose 15 20 pounds and however long and then they'll want to switch and get something strong. Trerside does nothing for them. So just so you guys out there know again just like anything else some people react well some people don't react things. Now I heard that people also lose a lot of muscle when they take old. Exactly. So that's that's kind of that thing that people don't want to talk about. A lot of the studies out there and I know we'll put one up later. You know the true study is either one of those drugs you take for 52 weeks you can lose about 15% body mass. And that's how they word it. body mass. So, you're looking at overall weight is what your body mass is. Let's say you're 300 lb and you want to lose 60 lb. You probably lose 60 lb in a year. But how much of that was muscle? How much of that was fat? And how much of that was water? You're going to really lose mainly muscle. You lose ma mostly muscle when you take Ozic. Well, like some people on Ozic, they look uh kind of funny. I'm calling like they're like shriveled up prunes. Yeah. You know, they say that something called the ompic face where you all the muscle in their face. Yeah. Cuz you're losing you're losing muscle. you're not really losing the fat. So, you almost the skin gets saggy and loose and yeah, the tone changes. But again, we'll touch on later. I'll hop into it. There's an awesome drug and a huge study they came out with that looks very promising. They're doing it with rats right now. It's a drug called Bolstatin or I say drug, it's another peptide, but it's a proteinbased. You can take that with, you know, these GLP1s, GIPs, and you can actually lose fat with it and put on muscle. So, it's they're synergistic together. Incredible. So, this is this is something new coming out. You know, it's almost like they're creating all these designer drugs. You know, anabolics and stuff, we're going to get into that later, is almost going out the window. It's like old school [\h__\h] We're starting to just completely get away from that here in the next, I'd say, 2 3 years. If you're bodybuilder, testosterone, maston, all the derivatives of testosterone, those are going to be a thing of the past. We're going to have something else. We're not even going to use that [\h__\h] anymore. It's just going to be obsolete cuz there's too many negative side effects. Yeah, that's that's the direction they're going with all these new designer drugs and peptides. Who is Ozic for and who's it not? That's not something I can directly answer. Yeah. You know, as a doctor, I think it can be for everybody, but like you said, it's the application of it. So, like it's not something that I want to take or I've ever thought about taking, but like I said, if I did a bodybuilding show, I would use it to suppress my appetite a little bit. You know, a big time calorie deficit really more for me not to lose weight or lose fat, just to suppress my appetite. Okay? Because the thing is, if I'm bodybuilding, it's a great drug to utilize for its purpose for me. I know I'm eating all my protein. Let's say I weigh 250 pounds right now. Well, I'm getting 300 grams of protein in a day. I'm doing, let's say, I'm only doing 100 carbs because I'm I'm I need to be in a deficit to lose fat and I'm doing maybe 60 grams of fat. Well, as long as I'm getting all my protein and all that, I'm not going to lose the muscle even if I use some of the semiglutide. But like I said, the lay public people, they're just going about their normal life. Yeah. They're taking this stuff and like I said, they're not exercising. They're using it as a crutch to try to lose weight and they're not eating macronutrients that they need. So then that's why they're losing this massive amount of muscle tissue. If you stop eating protein, what do you think's going to happen? Yeah, you're definitely going to lose muscle even without ozyic. But it's like that tfold because the ozic's taking away your appetite. You don't want to eat anything. So you're basically just going into starvation mode, you know. And then obviously when you come off this stuff, it's really bad cuz then you go back to eating three times as much as you were before and you're going to blow back up. Lots of inflammation cuz these people what I say is they have a mouth problem. They can't control their damn mouth. They have no discipline. So theoretically, if you took Ozmpic, but you made sure you hit your protein intake. Exactly. And you make sure you at least hit a minimum amount of calories. In my personal opinion, you would keep your muscle mass and those statistics of just 50, you know, the 52 weeks and 15% body mass, I think, would look like a whole different story. They'd have to do a research clinical trial and all that to determine it, which I think would be a good one. I got a lot of friends that take it, you know what I mean? for bodybuilding shows and they don't they don't lose muscle mass because they're micro doing it very small dose just enough to control the appetite helping with sleep cuz it does help with sleep Mhm. helps sleep inflammation. Now the other negative drawback of ozic taking it long term it does you know in a sense it can it can weaken your bone cortical bone cause osteoporosis. Oh, just like one of the other drugs that people don't know about, an astrool or a Remedex, it's an estrogen blocker. Same thing over time, damages your cortical bone. It also has a really negative side effect on your cholesterol level. So, it it'll increase your LDL and it'll decrease your HDL. So, again, if you guys out there don't know, HDL is like your good cholesterol. That's one that protects your heart. LDL is your bad cholesterol that mainly comes from the foods you eat in a sense in layman's terms. So yeah, an ashol remdex which blocks estrogen which is used in male testosterone replacement therapy with your testosterone. We see all these regular doctors giving two whole pills a week which is 2 milligs way too much. It's causing a lot of negative side effects. So they're not really building a true oneoff wellness program for each person. That's where TRT can also get a bad rap too because the docs are just here's your 200 milligrams of testosterone, shoot it once a week with a big IM needle and then here take your whole pill of anol on Monday and Friday and they give the same [\h__\h] to everybody. That's not how it's supposed to be. Everyone's hormones are different. Let's say for inance your testosterone. If you're taking a standard TRT dose, 200 milligrams, you're breaking it up into two shots a week. Yeah. And your testosterone is right at the maximum of normal a thousand. And let's say you're doing your your daily workouts, but you're only doing them four days a week. You know, your handstand push-ups, all this [\h__\h] you normally do, brand, but then you up it to you go, I'm ready to up the ante. Let's [\h__\h] train 7 days a week. And you start doing that same routine 7 days. Your testosterone is not going to be 1,000 anymore. You're going to burn through it just like if you floor your car, you're going to burn more gas. Really, your testosterone total is now going to end up going down to say 650, 700. Just, you know, in layman's terms to kind of explain the example, that's what'll happen. And you're going to have to bump your dose up. So that's why hormones and all these things with these medical doctors, it's not a one-izefits-all. Everything has to be customuilt per patient and you have to keep a hold on it. Like so at our clinic, we do labs four times a year. You get labs at the beginning. We put you on your program. You get labs, you know, about 10 weeks later. We adjust your dosages to hone it in to what's good. You've been on the stuff for, you know, 2 months. Constant nice routine we giving you. So we get a nice baseline. And then we make an adjustment to own it in 100%. And as long as you don't make lifestyle changes or exercise changes, you're good. And we normally kind of check up on that about 6 months later. If you're still good, we keep it there. If you need a little tweak cuz let's say you started, you came in and said, "Hey doc, I'm working out two more days a week. I'm feeling freaking awesome." You know, we're going, "Okay, we do labs. Probably going to need to up your dose a little bit." And then say in the winter time, which Miami there's not one, but it's, let's say you live somewhere where it's cold. That's what's going to happen. You're going to go lazier. You're not going to want to go to the gym. It's cold. You're going to hibernate. You're going to eat more. You're going to have to back your dose down because you're not going to burn through it. And if you keep taking the same dose, that's when you start getting negative side effects. Higher cholesterol, higher blood pressure, cuz your levels are going to go, they're going to exceed where they should be because where we had them perfect at the top at 1,000. Yeah. You're going to stop working out now. That testosterone is going to stay in your blood and your levels are going to rise because you're not burning it off. I never thought about it. Yeah. Yeah. Burn. It's a receptor. It binds to your receptors. You know, the different drugs do different things. Hey, hey, hey.