Yo, what's going on? So, I'm here with my man Terrell. And this dude is an expert at helping people get funding, improve their credit, and what he told me before, man, he tells people how to legally rob the bank. Tell me what you mean by that, bro. Yeah, bro. I teach people how to how to legally rob the banks, right? Really, just getting access to capital, getting access to business funding at 0% interest, right? U because the biggest thing about what people in general right a lot of time we've been afraid of credit or we've been afraid of you know access to funding because one we're not educated and two we don't understand when we don't have education you don't understand the different resources that you have and how you can use those resources to really better your life and better your business so I basically teach people how to get access to business funding in 7 days or less um 0% interest and then what happens is that they can leverage that to build their business to scale their business to grow their business or to even start a business right because sometimes you got to have a financial backing and that be the biggest thing like coming from Baltimore Maryland I didn't have a financial backing I didn't have the education and then I didn't even know about the resources. And so when you don't know about it, it's like, you know, they say if you know better, you do better. I'm older than you, right? And uh I remember when I was in college, I was afraid of uh credit. A lot of people I seen people go into debt and once I was watching MTV Cribs and it was Baby from Cash Money, okay? And he said, "Hey, well, I got all these houses and all these cars and I ain't I ain't got no loans or nothing. I paid for them all cash." And I was like, "Oh, that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to do what Baby did." So, I never had no credit up until 4 years ago. My credit score was zero. Okay? You know what I'm saying? Like, I didn't have no credits, no loans, nothing. And I had built like a multi-million dollar business, okay? [\h__\h] with debit cards cuz I was afraid of credit, you know? But now I've learned, you got credit, I got, you know, MX, all that [\h__\h] you know, and it's crazy, man. I got like 3 million MX points on me. I don't pay for flights anymore. I bought computers with [\h__\h] points. So I I didn't realize how much I was missing out by not having credit. What happens in our community like that's how we get access to information. That's how we like we grow up and watch either rappers, actors, ball players. You really become that because you basically get your information from that. That's the life that you live. But when you really think about it, we understand that like rappers are not people that should be given like financial literacy advice in our community. Yeah. I found that out later like you said by just using debit cards and not really understanding the resources and how it could benefit you. You know, had I had access to funding, I I could have made things happen faster. Once I got my credit right, you know, and we can talk about some ways on how someone can do it, especially me. I had no credit, right? So, I had to utilize different tactics to get my credit up. I was able to scale my business so much faster. For example, like just spending money on ads instead of waiting for me having the money to spend it, I can use Amx's money and then flip their money and then pay them back and build points. And like that's thing is like marketing, right? Like a lot of people that are in business don't even understand the power of marketing or even like running ads, right? Because now you can use other people's money to run the ads to number one build your brand to get more awareness, right? One of my mentors say if they don't know you, they can't float you, right? So if they don't know you, they can't spend money with you. And so it's crazy that you know you can use other people's money and you can build reward points. You can build your brand, build your awareness, build your business, and at the same time now you can be profitable, right? At the end of the day, if you can get sales and things like that, which is a whole different aspect of your business, but being able to get sales, it's like now you use other people's money to profit. Yeah. See, I don't think there's nothing wrong with using other people's money as long as you use it to make money. If you're using it for like [\h__\h] like if you buying watches, jewelry with all right, and then you [\h__\h] up, right? But if you're using it to make money, then I think it's all good. Same thing about education, right? Like what we was taught like when you think about baby, like you said, being a brat, but like nobody probably ever had the right conversation with him because imagine if he would have used credit and he understood how to leverage that. how many more properties and things he could have leveraged, right? And how he could have leveraged that even with the tax system, right, with depreciation and different things like that. So, a lot of times like when when you think about it, bro, it's just because we lack information in our community. It don't even make sense and nobody tells us about it. Break down the steps of somebody who's starting from zero, right? What would they have to do to start getting some some business credit so they can fund whatever ventures they have going on? No, for starting from zero, if you have no credit, right, the first thing you got to understand is that banks are pretty much like business partners, right? So let's say you you plan on owning a business. Your future is that you're going to own a business, right? Well, it's looking at banks and understanding that banks are businesses that have assets, right? So one of the things I did and like you know we leverage AI, right? But I went to Chat GPT and I asked Chat GBT to give me like the top five banks based upon assets. Okay? Right. So Chase was number one, right? Uh Bank of America was number two. I think Cityroup was number three. I think Wells Fargo and then there was some of the other banks right there. Right? So if it was me, I'm going to definitely set up an account with Chase. I'm going definitely get an account with Bank of America on on on that side because why? Because I understand they have the most assets which means they have the most ability to lend, right? And because I'm going to go into business at some point, I want to establish these relationships with banks, right? Then I did the same thing with credit unions. Hey, give me the top five credit unions, right? That's you know, so Navy Federal is one of them. So another thing I was I would set up a couple relationship with credit unions. With Navy Federal, right? I would call and say, "Hey, look, I my my granddad was in the military. He passed away. Um but I heard that I can still get a check in the savings account." Uh Navy Federal would say, "Cool. They'll let you in. They gave you the checkins and savings account. Right. If I'm, let's say, I'm working a job, I route my direct deposit straight to Navy Federal, right? Because you can build faster with credit unions when you have no credit. Build your credit faster. Yeah. With credit unions than you could with going to the the the national big banks. The reason I still want to have a a bank with those national big banks is because later on down the road, once I do build my credit up, now I'm going to go to Chase and I'm going to be able to get, you know, you know, I mean, 0% interest business credit cards. I'm going be able to get either the Chase Freedom, right? The Chase Elite. We'll talk about some of those cards. can get some of those cards later on down the road. So, I'm going to start building with the credit unions first. I'm going to get my direct deposit with Navy Federal. Right. So, so step one is setting up accounts with few big banks and a few smaller credit unions. A few smaller credit unions. So, now you basically starting building relationships cuz a lot of times what I see is people just go try to get access to capital and they treat it like a one night stand, right? And we've all had one night stands, but how successful, you know, is it? But if you take a girl on a date, you know what I'm saying? You do a little wine and D, it's hard to turn it into a relationship. Yeah. You might not even want to turn it into a relation. Right. Yeah. So, it's like, you know, it's like just looking at it like that, right? So, we start there. So, next step is that I would do some secured loans depending on, you know, money and things like that. I would take a,000, $2,000, and I would go to Navy Federal. I would do a pledge loan. I would go to other credit unions like we talked about. Maybe you can do a lion. Alliance is a credit, a good credit union as well. Okay. Um, and I would do like I would do secured loans with the credit union. Explain to them what a secure loan is. So, a secure loan is that when you basically you take your money like let's say you got a,000 $2,000, right? You're gonna take your money. You're going to go to the bank. You're gonna ask them to give you a loan, but you're going to basically give them the cash, right? They're going to basically in turn give you a check for that same $2,000. So, it's a loan against the money you already got. Now, what you want to do is go and pay 75% of the loan off. The rest of the loan, you want to basically do the payments over time. Because with credit, credit is built up with on-time payments over time. So, as you build up your as you as you're building up by using secure loans, now what happens is that now when you make those payments on time, you're going to now build out your credit report. Another thing that you were now able to do is you were now able to put your own limits, per se, on your credit report. So, because you went and did a $2,000 loan, let's say, with Alliant, $2,000 loan with Navy Federal, now you put your own kind of data point. Oh, so now you have, let's say you did two of those for $1,000 each. Now, you got you got your your credit limit is 2,000, but you've paid it all down. You paid 70% of it down. So, now it looks like you have a lot of available credit, but you do have a lot of available credit, and you continue to make the on time payments. Ah, got it. And then they got credit building accounts. So another good one is rent reporters, right? So let's say I stay with my or I know a mom and dad, a family member who is paying a mortgage. I go to them. I basically let them know that hey, you know, I want to basically uh report that I'm paying rent to them, right? Renters, you can go to that website. You can pay rent reporters to basically say that you're paying rent. So I would set my rent. I would say it's 2500 a month. You can even backdate it. So depending on how long they've had the mortgage, you can backdate it. they've had the mortgage for 5 years, 8 years, 10 years, however long they've had the mortgage, you can kind of backdate it. Um, and that will give you a primary trade line, but it'll give you age on your credit report. Oh, age on your credit report. Got it. Got it. Got it. Cuz that's another factor. So, so yall know, that's another factor when it comes to credit is how how long you've had credit, the age of it. So, now you got rent reporters, you got the two secured loans. It's something called Credit Strong. Credit Strong is an account that you set up and you just make on time payments every single month. M um and now you got about four or five trade lines, right, that you now have kind of established, right? And you your goal is just to make on time payment. So just pretend this person don't know nothing. What's a trade line? Oh, gotcha. So pime you have primary trade lines, which means that it's it's it's debt that you're responsible for. It's account that you set up that's in your name that you're actually responsible making the payments and stuff like that. At the same time, you have what they call authorized user trade lines, which means that if Brandon has a credit card of $10,000, he can add me on as authorized user. And that's now what they call authorized user trade line. Yeah. Yeah. So, and the more of these you have, the higher your credit goes. Yes. The more the more uh primary accounts that you have with the age, right? And the fact that you're making on-time payments now, you pretty much built out your credit report. Got it. From there, like once I do that, now I'm going to look at what they call um I'm going to do some soft pulls, right, for credit cards that do soft pulls. So, you got Capital One. Capital One is a credit card that they'll they'll do a pre-approval, right? Where you know, now you can go in and do an application, do a pre-approval, you might get approved. You got Discover It. Now, why am I doing Capital One? Discover it. Um, these are major credit cards that you want to start getting in your wallet because as you start building up, you want to have major credit cards in your wallet that give you decent limits and things like that. So, another thing is too that I see a lot of people don't know when they don't when they go in and and and do applications. Another thing that happens is that people will go in and say, "Hey, let's say at your job you're making 40,000, 50,000, 60,000, something like that, right?" Well, one of the things I tell people is that when you go and do applications, you want to use what is called a household income method. Let's say I got a wife or I got a girlfriend, right? I got to, you know, let's say even if I got some kids and they working and stuff like that, you can now basically take all of their incomes as the household income and put that as your income for uh the household income. Yeah. When you're doing the application right now, why do I want to do that? Because a lot of times we want to get access to capital, credit cards, things like that, and we go and say, "Oh, we only make 45,000 a year, but we want to get a $20,000 credit card or a $15,000 limit." Why would they give you, you know, I mean, a quarter of what you're making? Doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. So really what's very important is when you're doing applications to use your household income. Um and that's a method that you can use when you're going in and doing applications especially for those pre-approvals. Um but yeah, so that's how you would start your foundation. You would start your foundation on reporters, a few secured loans, building a bank relationship with the banks and stuff like that. You start there and make your on-time payments, right? Let me make sure I understand it so far. So first we going to get some relationships with the banks. We going to start some accounts, right? Then we going to get secured loans, you know, putting like what's the minimum you got to do? Thousand is a good minimum, but 2,000 or more the more the more money you have. more the better, right? Cuz you want to have more available credit, right? And then you said, so the rent reporters, oh rent, we said we do reporters, right? Credit Strong. Credit Strong. Some of these places where there's also secure credit cards. You recommend that? Yes and no. So if you're going to go the secured credit card route, make sure you get a secured credit card that graduates into a real credit card. Okay? Because a lot of people will go and get secured credit cards, but they don't graduate into real ones and then because you just stuck with a secured credit card, right? But the thing about the secured loans too is that if you go do the secured loans first, the reason I suggest that is because what happens is as your credit starts to build, you'll start getting letters in the mail from credit card companies throwing credit cards at you. And then also, if you do the pre-approval method and you already got the secure loans that have been reporting for, let's say, four, five, 6 months, you know, you'll start getting higher limits um on on those very first credit cards that you do. All right. So, instead of secure cards, we go get Discover it. Discover it. Capital One. Capital One. Um even Navy Federal. But once we got that relationship with Navy Federal and we got the direct deposit set up, Navy Federal also allows you to pre-qualify or get pre-approved for a credit card. And this won't affect your credit. Okay. Cuz cuz from what I understand, the things that affect your credit are length of credit, credit history, length of credit history, available credit do you have, right? So that's what the secure loans, that's why you said pay half of it off immediately. So it don't report as if your your utilization is high, I'd imagine. And then you get some more different cards cuz the number of the mix that you have and then even like a auto loan like if you're just starting out too, you know what I mean? Getting access to auto loan that's it's a it helps with your credit mix. Usually with auto loans they're a lot higher um in terms of the actual amounts. And the thing that's different with loans as opposed to credit cards is loans are meant to be paid off over time, right? So if you get a auto loan is 25,000 30,000 you're meant to pay that off over time. Now you've kind of basic boosted and opened your report, you know, pretty much all the way out, right? Then it's just understanding how to leverage credit for you to be able to make money, right? Like how can we be able to make money by having good credit? Before we get into that, all the steps you talked about so far, how long would that take? It just depends on what kind of money the person working with, right? So I would say that it could be a it could be a six-mon process, right? Um depending on like how much money you're working with because even with the secured loans, when you establish those and you make the on-time payments, you know, you want to have that kind of drag out six months. If we do the rent reporters and we backdate that age, right now what happens is that you should have like two or three years of history because it'll it'll even out, right? It'll balance out, right? Um, also you can do you can also get like maybe one or two authorized users. So you can pay that's what I did now. I went I went to this girl I knew, right? And I was like, "Yo, look look here. I need your help." You know what I'm saying? And I had her I had her put me as authorized user on a card. And then I think uh also had my girlfriend at the time she had a card and she made me authorized user, right? And then uh I had my sister do it and uh my boy uh the homie white boy Brian. Gotcha. He made me authorized user on him one of his cars. He had it for me. And that's and that's where like the other part is where you can now go to two or three people that you know and ask for free, hey, can you add me as an authorized user? But you want to go to people you know got good credit. Good credit that that ain't going to mess up the credit cards. But if you don't have those people in your network, like where I come from Baltimore, you might not have those people. So now you got to go to websites like tradinesupply.com where you can actually pay to get on get access to other people's credit cards. You don't get the card. You don't get the card. You don't get the card. Yeah. Yeah. You don't get the card, but you can pretty much pay to get access to get become an authorized user. And then from there, you know, you're pretty much your report is now wide open, right? Like now you're now you're you're good to go. How much does that cost to get into trade line? It depends on it depends on the account, right? Cuz I looked into it. Yeah, it depends on the account. But the biggest thing too that I would tell people is that when you start getting credit cards and things like that, you can now even list your credit cards on those websites as well. And that's how you can start making money, right? Because you can make money just by having good credit, right? So, let's say you do get a Discover card. Let's say it come up to $5,000. Even if you had it for a short period of time, there's people that you might know that needed need help with their credit. It's like, "Yo, look, I add you on my credit card. I'll charge you 250. I'll charge you." They don't get the card. They know they get the card. Does their credit reflect on you? Now, if I got the card and I add you on my on my card, my credit is going to now reflect on your report, not the other way around. Right. So, if you made somebody authorized user, this [\h__\h] go bankrupt, you straight still. Yeah, you still How long does do people really stay on someone else's credit card? If you're paying for it, it's like 60 It's like 60 to 90 days. And that's the thing about credit cards. Like, sometimes you get five slots, sometimes you get three. Depends on how many slots they give you, too. So it could literally be a side hustle where you know you adding people taking them off and things like that every 60 to 90 days like an extra $1,000 a month depending on Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's probably a good hustle for some. Yeah. No, it can because you're just adding people on to a card then taking them off. You know what I mean? So it's like you know a lot of times we do like you said you had four people did it for you for free. Even if they would have charged you, you know, I mean $250, that would have been $1,000 you would have paid out and you probably would have did it understanding where you at today. Oh, I would have did it for sure. My my credit went from like it was like saying it it literally said zero. I never seen that before. And then it it went up to like in the 700s, you know, and it got my first card. It was MX blue. And I went and got the the gold and the platinum. Those my main cards. I mean, now I got Chase Saf Sapphire Reserve and bunch of other like cool cars. Yeah. It's it's all about, like I said, being educated and understanding the resources. Like I think really what happens when we come from you know impoverished or certain environments you know you don't nobody even talking about credit because like they said they go to work they pay their bills but they don't really understand how to leverage resources to start businesses and really is about creating wealth and so people need to know this information because if you want to start a business grow business yeah you can do it all cash you can bootstrap yourself do it all cash get it out the money that was difficult though I was like I wish I didn't have to do it you know so how do we turn it into money the biggest thing is now we want to start the LLC so we going to go get the LLC right we want to make So it doesn't have a risky name. We want to get the e. Yeah. Risky name. So about that. So now a lot of people go it's like yo straight hustling. You know what I'm saying? Or or or like real estate or trucking or they give leeways to like the industry they they operate in. Nah, just keep it simple. So like whatever your first and last name is, it could be your first and last name initials, enterprises, solutions, global. So you want to keep it vague. Keep it very vague. Why don't you want to say the industry? Well, cuz what happens is that some industries depend on the industry is risky to banks. Ah, real estate is risky. Yeah, it creates the most millionaires or they say, right? Stocks, right? Taxes. A lot of stuff actually people make money in. But when it comes to banks and how banks view the industry is very risky to That's a jewel I never thought about. I never heard that before. If you're in certain financial industries, like let's say you do taxes and you want to set up a bank account, they won't banks won't rock with you. You said risky. I thought you was like, "Yo, man." I thought I Yeah. I thought you stacks on decks records or something like that you meant something like that. No, I mean, and that's and you know, it depends on what you're doing. Like some people like if you got a trucking company, you can have a LLC that you conduct business in in terms of your contracts and different things like that. But when it's time to go to the banks to get access to funding, no, I would I would want to keep it very very general. If anything, if if you wanted to have like a crazy name for your business or something, you could just get a doing business. DBA. Yeah, DBA, you know, that's DBA. So, yeah. So, you want to make sure it doesn't really have a risky name. Uh, we want to get a brick and mortar address. One of the ways you can get a brick and mortar address is Google registered agent in whatever state that you incorporate your business in. Ah, right. So, you can get a a decent business address. Um, get a business phone number, right? You want to get a 1-800 number for the business as well. Um, and and really, you want to have a business email atyou company.com. Yeah. Right. Cuz the biggest thing is is always about structure is like if you want to get funding like Walmart or Amazon or any of these major companies, then it's time for us to structure our businesses. Yeah. As such. Tell me what what's the best state to get corporate. I moved to Florida. Got you. And started my LLC over again. It's funny you say that. I think um you know Wyoming is good. Delaware is good. Um I think Florida's good when it comes to taxes and things like that. That's why I moved here. I think the biggest thing too is the strategy. New Mexico is decent, but it all depends on strategy because at the same time you got like Florida, we got access to most of the banks. So we got access to Chase, the Bank of America's uh the credit unions, but then it's like okay truest is a regional bank. we got access to that because they lend in our region. But if you're in Wyoming or Delaware, truest is not in your footprint, right? So it does depend on strategy and kind of what you're doing. If you're going to think about getting like maximizing capital sometimes just because you want to have asset protection and be anonymous or some of these other things, it doesn't mean that's the best thing for if you want to be able to get access to capital and be able to kind of go and scale the business too. So I always when I have when people ask me, hey bro, what's the best way? It's like look bro, what is the strategy? like what number one what industry are you operating in and what's your strategy for how you want to build and grow your business and scale cuz that also depends on that too. You can't just make you know oh I want to be anonymous or I want to protect my ass like like no because hey if you got a business that's heavy on capital you need money for running ads and stuff like that but now you're limited to only going after national banks. So once we have all this structure set up, right, we got that our LLC, we got our emails, all that. We we did we did all the trade lines, we we did we did all of that. What what kind of credit score do we want to have before we start going to try to get like real you want to have over 700 over 700. And the reason why because another thing too, right? Like you never want to make your minimums your maximums. Too many times in life, you know, a lot of people it's like they want to do the bare minimum, but they want to get the most maximum. Yeah. Let's not do that, right? If if the highest score you can have is a 850, you know, the best thing is to have at least 700 or above because anything under that now you're kind of mediocre range. Yeah. Right. And another thing I guess that you know is really important about and and it's like for people if you have we talked about people that had no credit, right? But what about the people who you had some stuff where you messed up. So the biggest thing that's important too. Yo, I'm glad you brought that up cuz I skipped over. Yeah. So the big but the thing is like now with AI like we have AI, right? And it's like a lot of times people are afraid of using AI not realizing same thing how to be educated and how to leverage as a resource. Right? So with AI now if you have negative items on your credit you can screenshot whatever the negative items are on your credit. You can upload that negative item to chat GBT. You can ask ChatGpt, hey look, this is the negative item on my credit. Draft me an aggressive affidavit as if it came from a consumer law attorney using the FC, right? draft me an aggressive affidavit using like, you know, using FC guidelines and making it seem as though it came from a consumer law attorney. Boom. Chad GBT in 30 seconds or even less than that, 5, 10, 15 seconds, they're going to spit the whole affidavit up and then you just sent that in the mail. You can even send in the mail, but guess what? Let's say you don't want to send in the mail, right? You can go to experion.com and upload your dispute before you even before you even go to experian.com. Once you have the affidavit from chat GPT, there's a website called notarylive.com. On notary.com, you can notoriize documents anywhere at any time. Right. So, you just upload your ID. Yeah. Notoriize the document. We take that document. We can upload that directly to Experian. Then, of course, you got the CFPB. You can go on there, submit a complaint, you can upload the same documents there with your ID. You can go to BBB doc. Right. Because what's crazy is a lot of times that these are businesses that look for funding and do things just like us, right? So, think about a better business bureau. Yeah. What happens is that now you can go dispute to the Better Business Bureau, right? And now this company has a it has a it's like, oh, these are some negative reports from, you know, other consumers and it's like they have to handle these complaints. So, a lot of times if you got negative items, there's so many different ways to go about it, but we can use AI to at least draft that affidavit, right? Yeah. Get it notorized notary.com and yeah, we can upload it directly to the websites themselves. If we do want to send it by mail, I suggest going to onlinecertifymail.com because now you can send it you can send the document out certified from home. Well, you don't even have to go to the post post office. Yep. 1099. Online certified mail.com. That's what's up. The thing about the affidavit is that it's an official sworn statement, right? So once you sign that and get it notorized, now it's an official sworn statement from you as a as an individual. Yeah. Right. Um and then let's say people say, "Oh, I did that and it didn't work." Okay. But now you actually can take them to court or go and sue because now you gave them an official sworn statement from you as the consumer. Got it. And you had it notorized. And then it's like, okay, they didn't follow the certain FC guidelines which they're supposed to adhere to. So now you can take them to court. And sometime people win money and sometime they kind of just take the negative item off. But either way, you we need to leverage AI to kind of get the negative items off and just be aggressive, right? Sometimes you can once you send it in. Okay, bet. It's sent in. I sent the certified. Now I know I'm going to send a certified return receipt. I know they received it. What can I do when they received it? Excuse me. Hey, TransUnion, this is uh Mr. Brown. I sent in a certified letter stating the different things that was on my, you know, that was on my credit report. Um, did you get the Did you get it? Oh, yeah. We got it. Okay, perfect. Well, I still see that the stuff is still report negatively on my credit report and you guys violated, you know, use the same thing that was in your affidavit, right? I need the stuff deleted right away. So, now you can pick up the phone and be a lot more aggressive about getting these negative that works. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had one of my uh one of my mentees just was he was you know he was on the phone with experience for an hour. See the thing about life is that like if you're if you're persistent enough and you are like you're intentional you're going to you're going to make it happen. A lot of time people just don't have intention. Without intentionality you're not going to be successful. And that's the thing about credit I think it's it's like one of them intangible things where think about it. It's like hey man I got free flights. I didn't got you know free computers. All types of free stuff. It was intangible at the time because you used to build your business debit card debit card. But once it became something tangible, now you understand how important it is. Yeah. And that's the thing I think with people is like everything if it's not right now microwave you can't just pop in the microwave and have to see successful. It's so intangible. You got to be persistent with it. You got to take it seriously. I guess it depends on how many negative items you have. But in general, how long would it take to for people to start clearing off these negative items? I mean, if you if you use those those affidavit, get notorized, you're going to see results in your first 30 days. First 30 days. Wow. You just got to be persistent. Like people just see the thing about us as human beings, we're emotional, right? And like we have emotion too when when things don't really go our way. But like if you just persistently keep staying on top of that stuff, you have everything wiped off your credit, you know, and really in no time. And I say no time because a lot of times debt supposed to stay in your credit report for 7 8 years. Yeah. Even if it took 8 months, is that is that compared to, you know, 8 years? That's not a long time. But how consistent and persistent are we about the process and understanding like it's where we're going, not what we came from. People too caught up in the past. They always look in the rearview mirror. You can't drive looking in the rear view. You got to know where you going by the windshield is bigger. There you go. Right. You got to know where you're going. So that's the thing I guess with people when it comes to credit and just their life is not like this is your livelihood. This is you being able to create generational wealth because in in our system like everybody is leveraging debt, right? The whole [\h__\h] Even the government. Even the government, right? Like oh we in this matur we still the most powerful country in in America. I mean in the world. That's a fact. But we but we still leveraging other people's money, right? We're still doing trades and barters and things like that. So, it's just like when people start to really understand the system and understand how money work, it that's the first thing that people do is is like clean their credit and work on that. And then a lot of times the business ideas and things that people have like it really would work if they had they had some capital funded. All right. All right. So, now we did that. What's the next step? Let's we get our [\h__\h] to like 750 LLC. Yeah. Got the LLC. Cleaned up our credit report. or however long that took. Business checking accounts. Well, same thing. I'm looking business checking accounts with Bank of America. I'm going to do Chase number one because like I said, they the biggest asset. I'm going to do Bank of America. I'm look at some community banks. I'm going still do some of my credit unions as well. Same thing. I'm going to do the same thing in terms of building other. So, different relation. I have all my [\h__\h] in Chase. Yeah. So, Bank of America, bro. Like, get some other relationships because think about it like you're a business owner, right? If you already like went to Chase and they gave you money. Yeah. Okay. Boom. Got you. I already had I had my knowledge 12. Hey, let me go let me go establish my relationship with them and let me start building with them and let me see if I can get some funding with them. Right. Cuz it's like and you can do this every even like every 91 days you can go and do like anywhere from three to five banks. Okay. And just establish 90 days. Yeah. And just to start establishing relationships even if you putting 2,000 25,000 in something like that. Even if you letting it sit, it's like cool. Like then you can call the bank up. You know you got $5,000 sitting in the account. Hey man, I just want to know what kind of business credit cards and stuff do you got? kind what kind of stuff do you guys offer? You know what I'm saying? And then sometimes you can play the game like let's say with Chase I got $700,000 or whatever. I got $75,000 sitting in Chase right now. You know I mean I'll move everything over. What y'all got going on? Got it. They even sell you. Oh yeah man. We got this this this this. You can move your money over for couple days. Get a couple business credit card. Get some access to capital and then it's like you can do whatever you want from. How much money would you do you need to put in the business account for them to like you know? with uh with Chase Bank America, I would say uh if you got 2500 is cool because most of them charge a $10 fee or $15 fee or something like that if you don't got 2500 more. So, at the minimum, I would start with 2500 2,000. Um and I would ask the bank like what's the minimum that you can have. Um and that's the thing that's so motivating. It's funny because you got different accounts with Chase. One of the things that motivated me with Chase was like they got accounts that you can have 100,000 minimum. You know what I mean? Like you know certain accounts they got accounts like it's it's 25 then they got accounts $100,000 minimum. And I was like, "Wow, it's crazy that, you know, dealing with money where I come from Baltimore." Like, I ain't even know nobody had 100,000 liquid. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's like, dang, it's people that like they just keep 100,000 sitting checking account, don't even touch it. Like, that's the minimum balance, right? And it's like, so that means that's broke to some people. Like, there's people out here in the world right now that 100,000 out in their account is broke. That's the thing about life, man. It's all about how many experiences you can have. I think a lot of time when people are broke or when they don't have money, it's because they don't get around other experiences with people that got money. That's a fact. You know what I mean? That's a fact. Like growing up in Chicago, I thought I was rich, right? Like in the southside, like we thought I was rich. Come to find out, I was just the only [\h__\h] with a dad. You know what I'm saying? So we had two incomes. I got sent I got sent away to military school cuz I got in some trouble, right? And then um but there was some like legit rich kids. And like so one dude I went to I went to his crib for the weekend instead of going back home Chicago. I went to his crib. It was my roommate. Got you. [\h__\h] had horses. Yeah. Like he had horses. I never seen I didn't notice it. He had a mansion. His dad was his they had like mad cars, you know, like they didn't have Rolls-Royce and [\h__\h] but they had like Beamers and and that type bunch of Yeah. They And I was like, "Oh shit." You know, "What your dad do?" He's like, "Man, you just a a doctor? What kind of doctor? He a foot doctor?" I like just a regular ass doctor. I was like, "Yeah." I was like, "Shit, man. [\h__\h] it. I'm going to go to college." That's what I was thinking in, you know, back in the ' 90s. That's crazy, bro. Cuz And what what that shows is that like you got into a different environment, bro. it showed you something different and it's like now it motivates you to want to be something that you didn't even that you never even thought about 100% cuz I'm sure you know coming from Baltimore like I'm familiar with Baltimore like like in the hood it feels feels hopeless like you can feel it right it's like tang was like a so it's no wonder you know kids get in gangs or start doing other [\h__\h] right because when I go back to Chicago I know them kids they don't think they going to be hedge fund managers or no [\h__\h] like that like for real it's like are they going to be a lie you know what I'm saying like really think about and I think Like what's so crazy is that like a lot of times just because your parents like you know your grandparents the the family it's like really you start with your family right and like most of people in our families it's like they go to work I mean they pay the bills they they honest things like that but it's like when you think about Thanksgiving and Christmas tables like these conversations is not like it's not right and it's like you know it take you going to a different type of school getting around a different type of environment and it's like damn this damn this [\h__\h] really is possible like and that was the thing for me like even just seeing that people had like $100,000 was broken is minimum like okay even at that time I was like I got to get my money up and that's the thing about money you know what I mean it's like you don't even know what's possible until you really get a chance to see what's what's what's going on out in the world and I think that you know like in in in the hood like a lot of people are sheltered you know what I mean cuz even like in the hood it's like yo I bank with Chime or I bank with you know it's like bro you get a real bank account they not I remember I don't know if [\h__\h] is still doing this [\h__\h] but I remember yo we was cashing our checks at the liquor store yo people still doing it too yeah they still doing it Like I didn't know that was thing. But I remember cashing checks at the liquor store. I remember my first one of my first checks when I was personal trainer. I was like 17 and I I went straight to the liquor store to cash that [\h__\h] You know what's funny? Shout out to my one of my guys, right? He got a uh refund check. Went to Morgan State. Yeah. Refund check, right? Um he got two of them. Like one one day was like 3500. Next day he gave him another 3500. Right. Yeah. Lie to you not. I took him to the liquor store. $3,500. He c he cashed his he refund check and it like he you know and he he took the whole $3,500 came out with his all his money in his pot and started peeling up, you know, cuz like I'm crazy that you say this, but I promise you it's funny when when you look back at like the fact that people that we do stuff and it's all based upon lack of education. We just ain't know no better, man. I I could have got a a a checking account, you know what I'm saying? Said out cash at the liquor store. Cash and you pay a fee, right, man? Like you pay a fee depending on how many I forgot how much depend like every hundred you pay a certain amount of money but you pay a fee like if you got a checking account how much do it cost to cash your check nothing you do it from your phone now. Yeah. Mobile deposit. You know what I'm saying? Like just from your phone. And that's the thing like and then we and then what happens when you do when you lack education you now spend more money. Yeah. Because you don't even had a you don't have it's the it's the ignorance tax. It's ignorance bro. It's the ignorance tax. That's that's what we paying you know. Straight up man. So now that we got the LLC Yeah. Yeah. No, that's being distracted, but I want to make sure they get the game, you know, so they know what to do. And I appreciate you like not lot sometimes people come on, especially if they they coaches. Sometimes coaches don't want to give the sauce, but you give you giving it all. And I appreciate that, man. For sure, bro. Yeah, cuz the only way that we grow in our community is if we if we impart the wisdom and the knowledge. It's up to them to go and execute. And that's the biggest thing that I see that even when you give game, it don't matter how much game we give cuz guess what? It's only a select few people that's going to go out there and execute. Straight up, man. And then some people, you know, that's why I tell everybody who's like a coach or anything like, "Yo, I'm going to give as much game as possible because some people will execute it and they'll just they just love you for it, right?" But there there's some people among you who's like, "Yeah, I don't want to do it." It's like, "But I I'll pay someone to do it, right?" You know what I'm saying? Some people will. Yeah. Yeah. But no, so once you got the LC, we going to establish those business checking accounts. Um, and then you want to go to you want to find relationship managers. So, even with Chase, when you set up your account, you can ask them for a private banker. Yeah. A relationship manager. Um, and then basically what you do with the relationship manager is you want to go in now, let's say you want to get a $50,000 business credit card or $75,000 business credit card. Um, when you're doing your application, right? We talked about the household income method, right? But what happens on your business revenue side? Let's say you want to get A-50,000 or 75,000 on a business credit card. Your business revenue has to be you can project your business revenue, right? But you want to project that you're doing at least at least a million or more. Okay. A year. A year in your business, right? Even if it's brand new. Right now, what happens is that if you go to Chase Private Banker and let's say you let's say you say your your your your regular income, you know, is 100. Let's say anywhere from 147,000 to 265, right? Let's just say that on a on a business application, right? So, you put that down for your your your your income, your personal income. And then for the business, you can say you're doing a million, 1.1, 1.2 million, right? Those data points will give you a either $50,000 or $75,000 business credit card with Chase and you can get that at 0%. You ain't even got to prove that [\h__\h] You don't got to you and the biggest thing about Chase is that they give up to 150,000 right now with no proof of income. Like the Chase Inc. Chase Inc. or the or or the U It could be the Chase unlimited, the unlimited or the ink. Okay. Bingo. Right. And then what happens is that now What's the difference between these two? Really? They kind of like the same card. Yeah. Cuz I got the ink. I'm like, man, do I need the unlimited as well? It's like the same card. They really do similar things, right? Both of them are 0% for 12 for 12 months. Yeah. Um what I did was I got the I had got the ink, right? And then I had got the unlimited. Um the ink they gave me 75k, 0% and then the unlimited gave me 25k. So I was able to get 100k from Chase, 0% interest. I didn't have to prove no income or anything like that. Wow. And the best thing about business credit, you can you expert like but you can run up the utilization and it don't affect your person. It don't affect your credit score. It's not even on your it doesn't even show on your personal card. You can run up to utilization. Yep. Yep. Yep. And that's why so is there's banks that you like there's business credit cards you don't want to get Capital One because that reports to your personal Discover business credit card reports to your personal TD Bank that business credit card also reports to your personal. So those are three business credit cards that you want to make sure you stay away right because you want to be able to run it up like you said and leverage it for your business and things like that. But MX is good. MX MX is great. Um that that's that's I do most of my [\h__\h] with MX but we we run some [\h__\h] on on the chase too. Yeah. Um, the thing about the thing about MX, right, is like the lounges, of course, like getting access to the lounges. And yes, that'd be the best part of the like when I when I go to the to the to the plane station, I call it the plane station cuz it's a long story, but when I go to the plane station, uh, I I head straight to the Centurion Lounge, like straight, you know, especially if it's if it's an early flight, man, cuz that breakfast be sometimes, you know, the lunch is hit or miss, but the breakfast goes hard. And then I hit the [\h__\h] when I get off the plane, right? At the next uh so I get two free meals and they they usually pretty good. And that's like that's what I'm saying. But I think that even like for fitness like so let's say you're in fitness and it's like yo you started you start your fitness brand and now you need to build you need to run ads, boost posts. You need to get more awareness. Like you can leverage American Express Gold card for 6 months 0%. Yeah. And you can run ads. You can and with the gold card, correct me if I'm wrong on the first 100 100k you get four points. Uh four times points. Four times the points. Yeah. And that's the thing like and then people don't really understand the points of the points. But now like you said, you start getting free stuff, bro. Free flights. I I don't remember the last time I paid for a flight. And I I take like I take like 50 flights a year. You know what I'm saying? Cuz uh and and first class and I I don't remember the last time I paid for one with cash. And me and my girl, we just came back. We had this uh we went to this resort in Cancun. Okay. You know, uh, all-inclusive [\h__\h] Some real nice [\h__\h] Some baller [\h__\h] First class down there. [\h__\h] suite at the resort with one of the suites with its own pool, you know, that whole [\h__\h] All points. All points. All points. Yeah. That's that's that's so that's and that's why I think like we said, man, it's just it's just once you once you once you get access to the information, like it it literally changes the situation. So, but yeah. So, I would do I would do that with Chase. I would go to American Express. I would get those cards as well. Um, I would look at Bank of America as well. Um, and then the biggest thing I'll tell you is too like you got to go to like it's different resources. So you got ibanket, right? ibanket.com where you can now look at um you can look at different banks that are pretty much in your footprint per se. Okay? And you can also start relationships or even at least pick up the phone and call and figure out what their lending process is, who they lend to. Um, and you can also ask who do they pull from. That's another thing that's really important when you want to go after business funding is because like Chase right now pulling from Experian and TransUnion, right? uh AMX is is pulling from, you know, Experian, but you got banks like Navy Federal, they want to pull from TransUnion, too. So, now what you can do is you can kind of figure out how you want to do your sequence and funding, right? Knowing what banks are going to pull from TransUnion, what banks going to pull from. Tell them why that's important. That that makes sense cuz really you want to get access to as much funding as possible. So, if I know that Troy is going to pull from Equifax and I know that Chase is going to pull from Experian and TransUnion, right? And I know that Bank of America. So, Bank of America, if it's a personal credit card, they're going to pull from Experian. If it's on the business, they pull from TransUnion. Okay? So, it's just knowing, okay, how do I access the most amount of capital, but on a limited amount of inquiries? And because inquiries like drop your credit score, they they drop your credit score as well. And briefly, momentarily, right? Yeah. And it lets banks know that you're that you're out looking for capital. Right. So, now we want to we want to play against each other basically. If I go if I go to Truis and they pull from Equifax, I'm going to go to a bank that pulls from Experian, I want to go to another bank that pulls from TransUnion. That way you can get a bunch of funding at once at one time and just understanding who they pull from. And you can also still do that play, but make sure you deal with the relationship managers. So truest has relationship managers. Every bank that you're pretty much going to deal with, they have like even private bankers or relationship managers. And then another thing I feel like people do is that people don't pick up the phone and call, hey look, you know, I'm interested in getting this. What what kind of products do you guys offer? So one thing that you do, like let's say you want to get access to funding, you pick up the phone, you call the bank, you want to know one, hey, who do you pull from? Do you transfer? Right. Another thing that you want to ask is how many lending products am I able to get on this inquiry? Right? Because with credit unions you can what they call double dip. So with credit unions a lot of times you can get a u you can get a credit card uh personal loan, right? All off of just one inquiry, right? But most banks don't allow you to do that. to most banks is like the more pulls that you do, I mean the more like uh credit cards you want to get loans, they might do a hard pull, you know, every single time. So, it's kind of understanding that, but that's why you ask questions like even with uh Senovas, you got banks like So, will allow you to we call it a multiple entity funding. So, let's say you got uh uh Brandon Carter LLC and then you got BC LLC, right? You can do one inquiry with Senovas and get a business credit card for the BC LLC and get one for Brandon Carter LLC, but it's one inquiry and SNOVA also post Equifax as well. That's what's up. So, it's it's different. It's different. It's different things to it. Um, different. How'd you learn all this stuff, man? Just locking into wanting to understand how the system works. You know, a lot of times my my pain came from I wanted to do a real estate deal and I I partnered with a guy and he and basically he was able to steal $68,000 out of the from me out of the deal. me and my mom, right? But what he knew was how to set up the LOC's and he knew how to go to banks and get access to capital. When we closed on that first property, he was able to get the 68,000. We didn't even understand how he did it. And that and that that pain was something I wanted to turn into a triumph. So that's when I just dug into everything about LLC's and fixing my credit and stuff like that and just understanding what banks pull from where. And I did a lot of YouTube University, right? There was a lot of mentors, you know, shout out to my guy him 500, you know, just even tapping into him and Reception Proof and stuff like that. But I'm somebody if you give me access to information I'm going to execute. And so that was really I think that's the biggest thing. There's so much information out here already on YouTube even for like let's say being fitness. If you want to start a fitness brand fitness coach it's so much information but people do not really tap in. They don't they don't lock in on information and then when they get the information a lot of people play around like oh should I do this? Everybody's looking for confirmation and validation from someone outside of them. Nah, [\h__\h] that. Like you need to validate yourself and go do it yourself so that way you can learn the information, implement it, execute, and you'll change your life. Stop waiting for validation, execute. I mean, and confirmation from somebody outside of you. Yeah. Yeah. That's the biggest thing. That's what's up, man. Where can people find more about you? Uh, Chief SBS, man. So, you can find me on Instagram, Chief SBS. YouTube, Chief SBS. Facebook, it's my uh It's crazy. It was It's Tyrell L Brown on Facebook. Um, Tik Tok, same thing. You can find me at Chief SBS, man. probably on all platforms. You're giving out a lot of this game on the on the platforms, too. A lot of games given out on the platforms. Uh just text, if you text free to 240 301 1188, I'll send you my free training where it breaks down how to get access to 0% interest business funding in 7 days less on how to clean your credit with AI in 4 days. Aan, I I learned a bunch of [\h__\h] that uh I'm going to have to utilize, man. Thank you, brother. Appreciate. I appreciate you, man. Thanks for letting me get on the podcast. For sure, man. Business with you. Hey, hey, hey.