 Nasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasaasa treat content like a part-time job, just a part-time job, not even full-time job. That means I want you working on content an average of four hours a day. You're not going to make money off your content. I'm assuming you're going to have some sort of business behind it. For this example, I'll use what I teach people how to do is online training, but it's going to work for pretty much any kind of business you want to start or any kind of business you have. This will even work if you sell real estate content four hours a day. What is this going to look like? So here's what we're going to do. It's content four hours a day, and we're going to focus on short form content, Instagram reels, TikTok, and YouTube shorts. The beauty of it is it can be all the same video, right? They can post the same thing on each platform. That's what the fuck I do. And you're going to work on it for on average of four hours a day. When you make the content, then you are going to start convos with people in a DM, people who engage with your content. And I'm going to break this down for you. So it makes a lot of sense. Don't worry. And then from there, you're going to get them on sales calls over Zoom, and you're going to sell something high ticket. When I say high ticket for online training, the minimum I recommend my students charge is $80 a week, which would be like the lowest tier, or $297 a month, or what everybody goes for is 16 weeks for $1,000 or $997. You can charge more than that. I have students who charge way more than that, but that's the minimum. Anything under that is straight up crackhead prices. It's like, hey, man, let me train you. Hey, brother, let me train you, man. I train you for $30. That's not what we're doing out here. And some of you may be thinking that that's a lot of money, but it's really not. You know, anytime you go to a gymnasium and you see people in the gym training with the trainer, on average, they're spending $100 per session. At some gyms, it's way more. Like Equinox is like $250 or $300 per session. You got to see that trainer two or three times a week. In-person training doesn't even help them with their diet. It's the most important part. So we're going to be, as online trainers, you track their diet to make sure they're actually hitting their macros and hitting their calories each day. Because you can't out-train a bad diet, but you can out-diet bad training. I think online training is actually a better service than in-person training because of the diet part. But anyway, this is going to work for any kind of business, right? A high ticket. Because people ain't going to hit your link of your bio and spend $1,000. Because that's what we're going for. That's 16 weeks. You know, everything else is kind of a down sale, even though it's more money per week. And ain't nobody going to hit the link of your bio or the link that you post on your fucking story and spend $1,000. I'm rich and I never did that. OnlyFans, chicks ain't charging that much. You want to do sales calls, like over Zoom, to sell high ticket things. Because when people are spending a lot of money, they got to trust you a little bit. Ain't nobody going to just hit a link in a bio and spend $1,000. It just don't work. Human beings don't behave like that. I'm rich and I ain't never did it. You know, so you can't expect the general population to alter their behavior in such a fashion. All right, let's start with the content. We're going to focus on short form, reels, TikToks, all that other shit. Here's what it's going to look like when you're working on the content. Everybody I know who posts prolifically online, they batch their content. I've never seen somebody who's posted multiple times a day, who's doing each video one at a time. Maybe there's exceptions somewhere, but it doesn't really happen. What usually happens is you got to come up with the idea and then you're going to maybe put together scripts or at least an outline. Then you have to film and you have to edit and then post or schedule. And these are the five phases of posting. So what you want to do is you kind of want to break this up into different days. So day one is when you come up with ideas. Day two, you can script. Day three, you film. Day four, you edit. Day five, you do your schedule. This is called batching. You may be thinking right now, how much should you post? The truth is there's no limit to how much you can post. The CEO of Instagram, he posted a reel. He says, the more you post, the faster you'll grow. So I have some students who are posting five reels a day. And sometimes people say, you know, quality over quantity, but I think that's the wrong way to look at it. I think that quality comes from quantity, right? If you want to get good at doing anything, you have to do it more, right? If you want to get good at coming up with ideas, coming up with scripts, filming, editing, each one of these things are skills, except for scheduling. Any asshole can do that, right? But these other things are skills. To develop any skill, you have to do it more. What you don't want to do is be all precious with your content. Focus on making the perfect piece of content. And yeah, I finally posted it and getting all crazy, getting the drones out, the 8K black magic cameras and getting all crazy with it. Because if you put all that energy into a post and it doesn't like perform well, that's going to be discouraging, right? But if you're throwing shit up, if one doesn't perform well, all right, there's the next one and another one in a few hours. I forget how much I posted today. You don't want to be precious about your content. You want to be just gunslinging, throwing that shit up. But then the thing is, you'll get better as you do it. You will improve. I'm not saying throw up trash or be out here shit posting. Do as many as you can at a level of quality that you feel like is acceptable. I know some of you guys are perfectionists. I never had that. I'm a maximus instead of a perfectionist. I just go, I'm more of a gunslinger. I just go and kick in the door, shoot everything that moves. I'm not out here trying to be precise. If you shoot up the whole fucking place, some of the bullets are going to hit the targets. So day one, you come up with ideas. I have a tool that will help you come up with ideas as well. It's free. It's one I developed just for my fans. It's called the Viral Content Architect. What you do is you go to this, you say what your niche is. We got a bunch of fitness coaching, business coaching, day trading, crypto, just tons of shit. Pick what you want. Let's say it's fitness coaching. Then you put your target market. I'm going to say busy dads. And you pick your platform. You want to focus on boom. Now you got 20 ideas. Stop using your kids as an excuse to be weak. Yeah, whatever. Cardio is a waste of time for fat loss. Just tons of ideas. And some of them you like, some of them you don't think it's trash. But you don't have to worry about how to come up with ideas if you use this tool. This is something that's an AI tool I built to help you guys with this shit. So that's you come up with ideas. And it's going to give you the outline of a script too. So you get like, maybe some points you want to hit. And then you can edit it a little bit more. You're going to do that on day one. Come up with all the ideas. It might not take you four hours to do that. So if that's the case, then you can start on the scripts. The days that are going to take you the longest, the filming and the editing. When you're first starting out, you're going to have to edit yourself. And you're probably going to have to film yourself. And that's fine. That's how I started off too. I have a team of editors. Initially, I was doing all of it. And these were the days that it took the longest. Listen, here's when it comes to editing. Don't make that shit all fucking fancy and perfect. Don't do no effects, no crazy transitions, none of that silly shit. You want to throw shit up. So you need to edit in style where you can do it quickly, where you can come up with volume. Because volume is going to be more important than fancy edits. And what you're going to film with, all you need is an iPhone and a good Android. If you've got a good Android. I'm not talking about gas station Androids. Nigga mobile. Fuck that shit, man. Any flagship ones, you're fine. Some of this shit is competitive. Like we got like, I got like $100,000 worth of cameras in here. Some of my best performance shorts were done the iPhone. I got YouTube videos with millions of views that were shot on the iPhone 7. Like no bullshit. So don't worry about that. What's more important is lighting. Like lighting is more important than your camera. The best lighting is the sun. Fucking go outside if you ain't got no good lights. Take your bitch ass outside, man. Touch some grass. Film outside, ho. Okay. So these days might not take four hours and maybe you've got a full-time job or you got a bunch of kids or some shit, but maybe you got two days off. These are the days you put in maybe eight hours, 10 hours filming and editing. And this, this, this don't take a whole day, right? But it's, you want to average four hours per day to do this. And once you're doing this, and this is how you batch your content because you have to batch. If you want to be prolific, post as much as you can per day. I'm telling you, you got to at least post every day. If you're not posting every day, you're not even trying. Like you're legit not trying. You're not serious. If you want to make money online, you got to be online, bitch. I don't know what the limit is because your feed is not in chronological order. You know, the way the algorithm works, you might see shit that people posted yesterday or a week ago. I'm going to focus on short form content and we're going to make sure we batch the content, but then how do we get sales? We're not, we're not making content just cause we're here to make sales. When it comes to sales, the first thing you got to do, the first step is to start conversations in the DMs. And you go for any product or service you're selling online, start conversations in the DM. You start conversations with people who engage with the content. So you're not strangers to these people, right? You start conversations with people who comment, like on your posts, you start conversation with them. And I'm going to tell you what that is. But before we talk about, we got to really explain what is the conversation. So you just randomly DM in motherfuckers. If they don't respond back, that's not a conversation. Some of y'all watching have DMed Sydney Sweeney, but if she ain't respond back, you did not have a conversation with her. You just another one of the weirdos who's DMing her. It's not a conversation unless they respond back. So you might have to do outreach to 50, a hundred people to get 20 conversations, right? It's more of a numbers game. It's very important, but it has to come from the content. That's why we have to be prolific with the content. Now there is a cheat code to get more conversations. And this is something I call the profit PDF. This is like a free guide that you can put together to help people accomplish whatever goal they have, right? Whatever your target market's problems are, it's a guide to help them solve that problem. So if you're making a video about the best foods to lose weight, if you want my full list of weight loss foods, type fat ass in the comments and I send it right to you. And then you DM them the profit PDF, the fat loss shit. And then you start a conversation with the, Hey man, so what are your goals? What are you trying to accomplish? And they'll probably respond. Not all of them, but some, a good amount will respond. You go back and forth. I have a whole script that I don't have time to get into right now is beyond the scope of this video, but you start talking to them using some sort of DM script and then you get them on a sales call from there. How do you put together the profit PDF? Well, this shit should only take you a minute. Matter of fact, I'm going to throw one together right now. So let's say I go to YouTube and I type, I type like Brandon Carter fat loss, probably a good ass video. Brandon Carter fat loss, huh? Not bad. All right, let's, let's pick one of these motherfucking videos. Let's say, let's say this one, this one got 400,000 views, take the URL. And then I'm going to go to Gemini. The reason you want to do this to Gemini, because what I'm about to do doesn't work very well with Chad GPT. So I'm going to post the link in here and then I'm going to write transcribe this video. Chad GPT doesn't really do this, but, uh, doesn't do it well, but Gemini is owned by Google. So it has access to YouTube shit because YouTube is owned by Google as well. All right, cool. It's giving, it's giving me the transcription. This is really a summary, not a transcription, but whatever. Write this as a five page blog post. I always say write it as a blog post because otherwise it does weird shit. It's writing it as a blog post. Now I can do some of my videos because I know what it says because I said it. So I know it's dope. If you wanted to do something like this, it's not the coolest thing to do still in other people's content, but you have permission to do this shit with all of my content, man. I got years of shit, like over a decade of shit, man. It's still all my shit. I don't care. You got permission to do it to me. Pause. So I'm a copy all this shit. If I had more time, I would edit it for the second video. I won't copy. Then I'm gonna go to another tool called gamma AI. It's another AI tool. And it's good for making presentations, eBooks, shit of that nature. And then I'm gonna hit create new paste text. Just paste that in there. Go here. Preserve exact text. It's configuring. All right. It's going to write this shit for me. Pick the templates you want. My favorite colors are red and black. So that's what I'm gonna roll with. I'm gonna hit generate. Boom. Now it's putting together the whole PDF for me. It's only going to take a second. Don't it together. Making the shit dope. It's making the design for me. This is stuff I used to have to send to like a graphic designer before AI was a thing. Boom. It's covering everything. Good formatting. It's lit. So this is a good prototype. Now I can add stuff to it. I can edit this right here. I can just do whatever I want. I can edit it. Change it from here. I can add images. Yeah. So you can add your own pictures in there. You can just edit it. This is the one I did earlier just for y'all. Add pictures. You know, this is AI images, some food. And then I can put CTAs in this too. Like I can put a CTA to book a call with me right here. To be honest with you, most people ain't even going to read your profit PDF. So you don't worry about making it perfect. Right? You just want to have one. You want to have a reason for them to engage. So if you say in your video, in your caption, a comment, such and such word, and I DM you this, right? It's just a reason to get engagement so you can start the conversations. That's the main thing. Okay. And once you have that going, then you can use another A tool called ManyChat. What we're going to do is when you get the ManyChat, you can set it up. So when people comment that word, ManyChat automatically DMs them your profit PDF, but then you want to go in manually and do the DM conversation with them. There are ways more advanced ways to set up ManyChat to actually book the call for you, or just other tools you can use to actually use AI to have a conversation with people. You don't have to do that. Right? You know, that's beyond the scope of this ManyChat. It's good enough for that. Then a good portion of these people will want to get on sales calls with you. And then boom, you know, sales calls and you do that over zoom. You want to talk to the person, they're going to give a thousand dollars to them, you know, and then boom, you close. I'm not going to go into sales. I have other videos on sales where I'm not going to go into the whole sales script and everything, but that's the structure. It all starts with the content. It's the most important thing content, because that's how you're going to get enough engagement to have enough conversation. And here's the thing. Everybody start a combo with will not book a call with you and everyone sales call will not sell. Right? So it becomes a numbers game. But remember what I said earlier, I gave the different pricing structure. All right, let's say you got everybody at $80 a week. If you had 25 people paying you $80 a week, and you kept an average of 25 clients for 52 weeks, that's $104,000 a year. All right, now you make it six figures on just 25 clients. So you don't need a whole lot. That's what I'm saying. You should be able to get that in six months. And you'll never have to work a job again in your life. If you can do this, you know, you could just work for yourself. I've told over 15,000 people this shit. Now check this out. The key where it falls apart is that you go too hard with the content, man. You want your fucking content to be simple. So one of my students, Jen Caesar, right? Her first year as online training, she made over $500,000 and her content is not crazy, right? She's not using crazy edited. Everything's done with her phone and edited herself. She doesn't have a team. She made half a million dollars as she had a full-time job and two kids. So you can do this, right? And her content is like, it's very simple. This is her phone on a tripod. You get what I'm saying? And then what she got here, she got a bunch of stuff in her caption because we, stuff that we teach, boom. And she got a CTA and this, she got a ton of views. You want to, you want to keep it mad simple. You can do this. Don't spend all fucking day making a video. And then she has, boom, DM the word plan for her profit PDF that I taught her to make. And look at all these people, right? These are all conversations. She started people, get them on sales calls, close them. If you want to learn more about this, I'm doing a live training this Sunday at 2 PM Eastern standard time, where I will show you how to grow your own life. I'm going to show you how to use AI to speed a lot of this up, right? Reverse. Use AI to help create the content. Use AI to help with the legion and the sales. I only gave you one tool. There's like way more stuff I can teach you. And I'm going to be teach you on this class. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to train your clients so they get great results. This is going to work for you. Even if you don't have any experience, Jen was never a trainer before. She's not certified to make it half a million dollars with this shit. I'm going to show you tools that you can, AI tools you can use to make the editing a lot faster. Click the link in the description. You do not want to miss out on this. All right. Bye. Bye.