 pept peptidUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUCUC with me to restaurants. I track how much water I drink a day, two gallons a day. My friends who aren't dialed in, they seem to get a lot more benefits from peptides where I notice kind of nothing. Like I said, you can look at your tail. You look super young. You take care of yourself. Everything you do is like a hundred percent. No margin of error in what you do, which nobody, hardly anybody's like. You know what I mean? I'm pretty honed in. I'm not even as crazy as you taking my scale around everywhere. You're keto too. You're just doing fruits. You're not doing a lot of toxins in your body. You're doing all organic, clean, like red meats and shit like you do. Your testosterone naturally is off the charge, probably a thousand or higher. You know what I mean? It was until I got into my late thirties because I'm on TRT now. Yeah, but like I said, that's normal because of your age. After 25, no matter what, even if you're healthy, you're going to slowly see a little bit of decline because everyone's mitochondria is not going to function as well. Metabolism can slow down, but you can keep it really, really good. So I mean, you can tell internally we know you're healthy because you haven't aged on the outside at all. My blood work is perfect. Oh, your shit's perfect. It's impeccable. Exactly. So that's why. So because all your markers are already at a hundred percent, everything's very optimum other than your testosterone and now you're on TRT, the peptides, because they just take you from, let's say you're suboptimal, a hundred percent here and you're at 50, 60, 70, it's going to bring you to that hundred. You're already here. So it's like you're injecting it, but there's nowhere else to go. So for you to really see, get super shredded, or like you said, put on some size you want to do. You'd have to just up your testosterone dose and you'd have to take some real growth hormone to really boost and pack the muscle on. We have some guys that do that and what they'll do after is just they'll follow up with a cycle of the peptides and re-stimulate the natural just to make sure it doesn't get any less efficient so you stay in that realm of you're good to go, your blood work looks perfect. So there's different ways to do that too. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. So basically what you're saying is peptides, they don't make you like supernatural. They optimize what you would be natural. What I tell people is like, look, they're optimizing you back to like when you were 25 years old and everything's at its peak. You know what I mean? You could go out, stay out all night long, go party, drink, do a bunch of drugs, not even go to sleep and go hit the gym and keep going all day long. And you never missed a beat. At 25, you can do that because all your hormones are awesome. Everything's a hundred percent. So yeah, it's like that. So what do you think about the kids taking this stuff? Like younger guys, is it really helping them? Is it just makes them regular or, or is it helping them because they're not dialed in on the other shit? They're out drinking, they're out doing other shit. That's what it is for me. I think it's a lot of these normal guys. They're not bodybuilders. They're not taking care of their health. You know, they're drinking soft drinks and all that shit. They're not unhealthy, like how they look. They're just kind of normal, average, everyday people. They get benefits because then they, they get on the peptides, they go in the gym and start working out and they'll see gains, but there's definitely going to be a plateau point when they get to where me and you are where you're like, okay, everything's pretty optimum. I hit that threshold, you know, the same thing with me. I use the peptides now more so for not muscle gaining or fat burning. I use them more for, like I said, anti-aging. I mean, I'm taking GHK, epithelon to literally lengthen my telomeres, which literally makes you live longer because telomeres, you know, you go get a telomere test and it's kind of like part of your DNA. It'll tell you your lifespan. How long you got to live. Yeah. So you can take epithelon and it literally lengthens your telomeres. It will actually increase your lifespan. Oh. So we have a combo that we use. It's, it's GHK, epithelon and MOTC. So the MOTC is like a mini GLP. So it increases insulin sensitivity, helps with appetite suppression. But the big thing it does is it produces new mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell that runs everything that keeps you from aging. It literally kills all the old ones off that aren't sufficient and makes all new powerhouses of cells. So you can make more ATP production, more energy. So a lot of guys, they'll start MOTC and they'll feel worse. Oh really? Because they don't understand it. You got to have the glycogen too to run the system. And they're like, oh, I'm going to take MOTC. I'm going to lose some weight. And they're on a really calorie restrictive diet and they feel like shit. I'm like, yeah, bro. Cause you don't understand the chemistry of these peptides and how they work. And you're just, you're doing them off some chat GPT bullshit. You have no idea. That's why you need to have medical, you know, guidance with the peptides. Medical super. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like that's what, that's where it's kind of gotten out of control. Everybody and their mother's taking some peptides and half of them are research use. Half of them have all these heavy metals in them, endotoxins, whatever. And they don't even know it's not going to hit them until later, but I guarantee you, you're going to see a spike in, in some issues with some. Cause people are taking like this gray market. Yeah. They're taking this gray market, black market shit. That's, you know, not tested properly. It almost sounds like it's going to work best for people who aren't, who don't have their shit dialed in. If someone's dialed in like, like I just didn't notice anything. Your blood works pretty good. But like, let's say the IGF, I think the IGF would work for you. I did it. How long did you take it? Oh, it was too much. It was too much. That's let's, let's run over that real quick. So I see what you're saying for sure. These peptides, again, they're not like anabolic. You know what I mean? You take TRT bro four weeks in, you're feeling like superhuman. Again, it's an exogenous source. It's bioactive. Soon as you inject it, it's going and hitting the receptor and it's creating a result. Yeah. The peptides get broken down in the body. They're the amino acids. Then they start to work. They take a much longer to see the benefit. Because like you said, let's say your testosterone was 400. It's in an acceptable range, but you take a full, a full speed like the doctor recommends, bro, you're at 2000 the next week, like Superman. Peptides don't work that way. Like I said, you know, let's say 2000 is up here. Peptides are only going to bring you to here. And, but if you stay here at that maximum level for a period of time, you will get the benefits. So I do tell people too, they're not like testosterone TRT. You're not going to be superhuman right away. But if you do, you know, I tell people in our clinic three to six months stack, you're going to see big benefits. You are going to get the change. You just didn't give enough time. Oh, at least with that one. But then I took test of more than for like six months and I noticed nothing. Didn't notice that one. You don't eat already shredded. Yeah, bro. I would never recommend test of more than for you really. Cause you're already so damn lean, bro. There's no fat to lose. You know what I mean? That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. It's one of my boys, man. He was, um, he's not dialed in and he wasn't that lean. He took test of more than he said it helped straighten him up. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think for you, something like a BPC-157 TB blend supplemented with probably the Samorlan and then like a CJC of a more than more. So those are the anti-aging, but they're going to definitely increase appetite. So you'll want to eat a little more. You're going to see the muscle gains and fat loss from those because they're more suited to your body and your lifestyle too. Yeah. I never had a problem burning fast. Maybe test of more than just wasn't the right. That's the same, bro. Yeah. You're already, you already burn fat so easy. Yeah. Somebody like me, who's a hard gainer, I get skinny, but I was never a lean. So the test of more than I can see it. I'll take it for four or six weeks and I'm like, damn, my stomach is, it's tightening up. I can feel it tightening up, like see it quick. So for you. Yeah. I think it's, we just, it was the wrong choice of product. Yeah. Cause I can get shredded. It seems easy for me. It's just math. It's like keep my calories low. Fucking hit the cardio. Exactly. Yeah. You just hit the spin bike and take a few berries out and you're getting shredded three weeks, you know? Okay. Okay. Yeah. How safe are these compounds? Me personally, I've been taking them for over 10 years. Yeah. No, actually 12 years now. I mean, dude, I'm still here. I'm still kicking, you know, here's the kind of caveat, silver lining, whatever you want to call it. So just like anything else, you get underground sources, black market, gray market, green lit API. There's different wordings for the different types of peptides. Are you getting research use? Are you getting a physician or professional use only? Are you getting it directly from the compounding pharmacy? So there's different sources that yield different results. I'll give you guys a couple of things to look out for. So for me personally, I mean, most of the research use only you want to stay away from online, but there are a few sources. I'm not going to name them here that you can potentially trust, but you got to know what you're looking for. Yeah. And I know most of the regular people out there, they're not going to know what they're looking for. They're just buying them, whatever. Anything online, in my opinion, says 99% purity. And they're claiming that on every fucking batch, everything they put it right there at the front. When you click the website, 99% purity, that's trash. I mean, I have my own pharmacy. We do the testing on these things. We use Vanguard. They're a pretty amazing company on the testing. And yeah, I mean, honestly, most of the time we'll get anywhere from 96. We can get up to 99%, 99.2, 99.3, but 99.9% on everything and shit like that on every batch. It's not that consistent. It's never going to be. I mean, but you got to think 96% pure is pretty pure. 97, 96 to 98. Like there's acceptable ranges by the FDA, things like that. But in my opinion, it's just when you put 99% pure on everything, it's kind of bullshit, you know, but you got to look for your COAs, certificates authentication. A lot of guys out there nowadays, they're faking these. They're creating fake companies or using these companies that are kind of just like, they're third party testing companies, but how good are they? Are they faking reports? What are they doing? So you got to kind of do a little research on that for yourself. For me personally, I don't put anything in my body unless on top of the COA, I get endotoxin reports. I want to make sure there's no toxins in it, no bacteria, bad bacteria, heavy metal testing. That's the big one. You don't want to be injecting heavy metals in your body. Cause here's the thing. That's, that's going to be kind of like a silent killer. Unless you do a heavy metal test, you're not going to know how much, but you're going to get a test done. Your kidneys are going to start failing, or you're going to have issues with your liver and kidneys and different things. They're going to be signs. Obviously you're not going to feel good. So it's like, you know, you can get into that realm of people say, Oh, I'll just go get them for a hundred. This was a hundred dollars over here. Here's a two nine out. I'm like, you go do that. You put that in your body. It's like, bro, I go get a haircut. Just my beard in Miami is $50 to trim this shit up. You know what I mean? I need to go get one done. But the point is like, if my beard is $50 to get trimmed in Miami and you want to put something that's 50 to $80 and you're injecting it with a needle into your body. In my opinion, that's just not smart. Sometimes you get what you pay for. Do your research guys. Or you just start injecting shit. You know what I mean? Are peptides better for younger people or are they better for older people? Or it doesn't matter. Like I mean, young people be taking it, the guys in their twenties, I think certain ones in my personal opinion. Yeah. So like, like for instance, if you got acne, you've got inflammation in your body. I mean, yeah. Products like, you know, GHK, BPC, some of those, in my opinion, those can help with acne. Yeah. Yeah. That's the same because you know, a lot of time too, when your body's inflamed, you know, you can have even, you know, outwardly expression, acne, things like that can be, you know, toxins in the body. It's going to help detoxify the body to an extent too. So yeah, just any of the more so anti-aging peptides, I think for the younger people is smarter. Really, they can be for anybody. You just need to get your blowwork done to know what you really need. That's the thing. You got all these guys, like you said, bro, they're just buying shit online and just taking it. I'm like, yeah, take the red and the test of more. It's like you, you didn't really know. And you just, you know, you tried that and you tried this. The doctor gave me like, same people get my TRT from, they looked at, they gave me. Well, we won't, we won't shit on them, but we'll just say they may, maybe they, uh, and it was expensive. I was like, geez, you know, they weren't, they weren't as locked in as we are. You know what I mean? I wouldn't have, I wouldn't, that wouldn't have been what I, what I gave. Yeah, for sure. So yeah, but again, that's the thing. Everyone's different. You know what I mean? It's empirical and scientific data versus like real world results. That's why, like for me, guys love coming to our clinic because we have female NPs that are beautiful, that love to sit down with the women that the women relate with. And you got guys like me that are a little bit more on the bodybuilder fitness side, that have muscle, that have reward applications to help you build muscle, burn body fat. And you got your regular, you know, guys in there that, you know, like I said, they just come in and they're the older guys. They just, man, I'm fat. I just want to lose weight and, you know, have sex with my wife again. I can't get it up, you know? So it's like those guys, anyone can treat those. But when you get into the, the more specifics and guys like you, they're already so locked in. Yeah. The regular doctors, even at wellness clinics, they don't know where to go with you because they've never experienced that. I mean, like, yeah, that's what I mean. If they don't, if they don't look like you, how are they going to treat you? You know what I mean? They've never experienced it. They don't know that. The data is not going to tell them that. You know what I mean? It makes a lot of sense. That's like saying, well, I can drive a race car, man. Sure. Thousand horsepower. Yeah. You have a thousand horsepower car you drive on the street. That's not like getting on the track. You know, your Lamborghini might be a thousand horsepower and you might drive it on the street in a straight line. But if I put you on a track, I promise you're gonna last two minutes, probably gonna crash. It's a different application. You know what I mean? Got it. It's the same thing. Guys. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, brother. Oh yeah. Anytime, man. I hope everybody learned a lot. I learned a lot. Bye. Thank you.