As a personal trainer for over 15 years, all right, I've worked with thousands of clients and I've seen intermittent fasting work for a ton of people, like literally thousands of people. I want to give you some quick information about why it's so effective and how you can utilize it. I've used intermittent fasting for me and my clients to help them put on lean muscle without gaining fat or to help them lose weight quickly. When you're trying to lose weight, the most important thing is being in a caloric deficit, meaning you're burning more calories than you consume. But intermittent fasting helps take that to the next level by optimizing your body's hormones naturally. Let me explain. Intermittent fasting is not necessarily a diet plan. It's a style of eating. So, the way I like to do intermittent fasting is I'll fast for 16 hours a day and then eat for 8 hours. Meaning, I wake up and I don't eat or drink anything with calories until 3:00 p.m. All right? And then I'll eat from 3 to 11. So, that's the 8 hour window. Then at 11, I don't eat again till 3 p.m. the next day. Now, let me explain to you why that's more effective than just traditional caloric restriction. When you eat food, your body converts that food into glycogen or glucose, and it uses that glucose for energy. When glucose levels go above 100, your pancreas secretes a hormone called insulin. insulin is an anabolic hormone, but it's indiscriminately anabolic, meaning it'll help grow your muscle cells, but it will also grow your fat cells. When your insulin levels are spiked, your body will not be in fat burning mode. But when you do a 16- hour fast or any kind of fasting, what happens is your glycogen levels get depleted. And they get depleted even further if you do a workout right before breaking your fast. When your glucose levels are depleted, your body doesn't have anything to run off, does it? What's it going to run off? It's going to run off your fat cells because that's what fat is for. Yeah, the human body stores fat to use as energy during times of caloric scarcity. That's the reason why we store fat. So, intermittent fasting gives your body a reason to burn the fat by using it as energy because there's no glucose available. But that's not all. During your fast, your insulin levels will drop and your growth hormone levels will rise and that puts your body in prime fat burning mode. You literally force your body to run off its fat cells because it has no glucose available. And when you're in that state and you finally do break your fast, you'll be more insulin sensitive. So when that happens, your body will use nutrients more effectively, meaning sending them to your muscle cells as opposed to your fat cells. See, that's what happens when your insulin levels are spiked all day. You become less insulin sensitive, and your body is going to store more of that glucose as fat for later. This is not stuff I just seen work for me or my friends or my team. I've been a personal trainer for over 15 years. This is stuff I've seen work for thousands of people who I've trained for almost two decades. You know, I've seen this work on a large sample size of the population. Intermittent fasting was a big part of it. It's just like it's so awesome. It's I never really could lose weight. How much weight did you lose exactly? About 25 lbs in 2 months. That's awesome. Because of you, I learned about fasting. you. Oh, yeah. Nice. Working out for you. My transformation was pretty intense. I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] how long how long was that?" That was two weeks. Friend of mine told me about intermittent fasting. So, I Googled it and you're the first name that came up. I started watching all your videos. Thanks. That probably is one of the single things that I'm most thankful for running into my life is intermittent fasting cuz that [\h__\h] makes everything easier. I dropped a crap ton of weight. How much weight did you lose? I went from 218 to 172. If you would like to have more indepth information about intermittent fasting, uh, click the link below. I have a totally free guide, a beginner's guide to intermittent fasting that will teach you everything you need to know about it. And it's 100% free. Check it out. Thanks.