I got in a lot of trouble when I was in high school and as a result I was sent away to a military school. And when I was in military school, I used to get into a lot of fights. I was just a bad angry kid. And I wasn't a bully. In fact, it was to the contrary. I used to beat up the kids who would bully the nerds and the geeks. So, anytime I saw a geek or a nerd getting picked on, made fun of, or or whatever, I'd step to the whoever was bullying them like, "Yo, man, do that [\h__\h] to me." And they be like, "Oh, no. It's nothing like that." And it's too late now. Now we fight, right? And no matter how much they tried to retreat or try to cop out, we were fighting cuz I just wanted to fight. But I needed a good reason because I think in my even though I was an angry kid, in my heart I was still a good person. So I needed a righteous reason to whip ass. So I thought, okay, I'll bully the bullies. I'll defend the nerds and that will give me a good reason to fulfill this urge I had for extreme violence that had an unintended result. Following defending many geeks and beating up a bunch of bullies, these geeks thought it was cuz I liked them, which wasn't true. I thought they were nerds, too. And I didn't like them either. I understood why they were getting their ass whipped. I just needed a good reason to fight. And they thought I liked them. So sometimes I would go to like breakfast like early in the messaul and then the nerds would like gather around me like I was their new king. Like I'm king of the nerds and and I'm thinking h [\h__\h] I don't like you. I just like to fight and I need a good reason cuz I'm a good person in the inside. And these kids would start following me around. They whatever. I wouldn't [\h__\h] make fun of them or tell them, "Hey, get away from Nerd." Uh, I would still be kind to them because whatever. Um, and what I would notice was they started being [\h__\h] dorks to people cuz they felt like, "Oh man, we got we got Carter to protect me. We went by last names at middle school. We got Carter to protect me, man." And they started kind of overplaying their hand a little bit and they started bullying other kids thinking that I would have their back. And I didn't. They ended up being victims again because I stopped. I was like, "Motherfucker, that's your fault." And then I stopped [\h__\h] with them. Next, you know, they're the bully. They're being bullied again. Now they're the victims. And that's when I first noticed something that I call the bully victim cycle where people become bullies where I'm sorry where people are victims, right? They get some power then they become bullies. They overplay their hand, end up being victims again. And this cycle probably keeps repeating itself. In fact, it does. And it happens in real life. So, what does that have to do with you? Well, let's take it to a broader scope. You guys remember cancel culture? Yeah, that was crazy, right? So, this was this period of time. it's called the 2016 2017 somewhere around that that that era uh around the the me too movement really sparked it off you know Harvey Weinstein sparked Harvey Weinstein was essaying a bunch of people and he caught a bunch of cases ended up in prison he's in prison to this day and that sparked what called the me too movement where women were speaking out saying that they were being marginalized and then a whole bunch of other groups came a whole bunch of other whether it minorities um women uh homos oh homosexuals right whatever like they were all saying man we being marginalized too we victims we need to stand up and that uh and that's fine right within itself that's fine right we don't I as a as a as a bully fighter I don't like to see anybody getting picked on or bully because they a woman or because they Asian or homo right I I don't want to see any of that. So I initially I was like, "Yeah, sounds good." And then they started saying that they started overplaying their hand a little bit. Right? They got some power. They started getting some momentum in their movement and kind of started overplaying their hand. Right? They started bringing up old tweets from people and then trying to cancel them. I remember Kevin Hart was supposed to Kevin Hart, nicest guy in the world, was supposed to host the Oscars today. Went and dug up some old ass tweets from him from him saying some homophobic stuff. and you know he he didn't host the Oscar. I don't remember exactly what happened but people were started getting deplatformed cancelled and the the former victims started to become the bullies and they started overplaying their hand. Now the people that were bullying were anyone they considered to be toxically masculine. That was a big term in those times toxic masculinity. and they started looking bullying anyone who they felt fit that mold. People were getting the the deplatform all this [\h__\h] It happened a lot and the people who felt like they were the victims under those circumstances, now they're starting to get power. They started to get some power. You know, Trump gets elected, he starts talking crazy. you know, um, Andrew Tate, who had been deplatformed. Now he's back. He's back out. He's back outside. He's back on different platforms doing his thing. Um, we get the rise of Red Pill, right? You know, Fresh and Fit, you know, all these other guys, you know, and now they start to get some power, too. You know, [\h__\h] Zuck starts shooting TRT in wrestling. Now he feels like he wants to jump on this side now. You know, he was the [\h__\h] deplatforming him. Now he's like, "No, we ain't doing on that [\h__\h] no more." You know, and matter of fact, I want to be a tough guy, too. You know, and uh uh Elon buys Twitter, starts shooting ketamine or whatever, you know, allegedly, right? Starts going nuts, says you can say whatever you want on this platform. Same thing with uh other platforms started to exist. We have uh kick. Say whatever you want on kick, man. uh Rumble, say whatever you want to Rumble. In fact, it's built on that premise, you know, and now for all intents of purposes, the the former victims are of cancel culture are now in charge. I believe we're at that point of the cycle where they are becoming the bullies and they're overplaying their hand. for example, uh, free speech is a big deal for these guys, right? First amendment. Now, I always had an issue with that because the first amendment means quite literally free speech, first amendment, freedom of speech, quite literally means you won't be prosecuted by the government for what you say. Doesn't mean that there aren't consequences, right? Just means you won't go to jail for it. You ain't going to go to prison for saying something. For example, I don't care what the first amendment says. Come into my house, call me a [\h__\h] call my girl a hoe, I'mma [\h__\h] you up, right? The first amendment ain't going ain't going to protect you from me. You know, you come in my house talking crazy. The second amendment is your only recourse. The first amendment ain't going to do [\h__\h] for you, playboy. You know, I digress. They felt like their first amendment, right? So, we're being trampled, but nobody went to jail, right? So, it's it's it's a false dichotomy. Anyway, um Elon's like, "Yo, do do say whatever you want on on Twitter, right?" But I think he's taking it too far, right? They turn they they're making anyone naked with you can you can have Grank make anyone naked, including but not limited to minors. you know, overplaying his hand. You get what I'm saying? Uh Trump, you know, it's one thing. It's one thing. It's one thing to deport illegals. I get it, right? We got laws. Every president deported people. They were calling Obama the deorter and chief. I get it. You know, whatever. It's one thing to do. It's another thing to make mean, to coast [\h__\h] making fun of the people you're you're deporting, make uh you know, making fun of families who are getting displaced and things of that nature. What what's happening is they're overplaying their hand and they're confusing masculinity with cruelty or they're trying to equate masculinity with cruelty. the anti-woke crew is trying to get you to believe or maybe they they just believe that anything that's not cool is woke. You get what I'm saying? Giving a [\h__\h] about anyone else is is is woke, right? They're confusing masculinity and anti-wokeness with cruelty. And there's a difference. There's a [\h__\h] difference. You know, when I was beating the hell out of bullies who was [\h__\h] with nerds, even looking back at that, I felt like that was a good use of masculinity. You get what I'm saying? I was defending people who felt like who I felt like couldn't defend themselves, who couldn't defend themselves. I wasn't using my masculinity to be cruel. And there's a difference. And that's where I think they're overplaying their hand. And why is that important? Because remember how the victim bully cycle works. The victims become the bullies. They over the bullies overplay their hand and become the victims again. You get what I'm saying? That's what happens, right? the the the woke crowd of 2016. Now they're the victims. Anti-canc go now they're the victims and I think the bullies in that scenario are overplaying their hand. And if you overplay your hand as the bully, you will become the victim. So when I see everyone being cruel and calling in masculinity or saying that compassion or caring about others is woke, I think they're on their path to becoming the new victims. And I'm not saying it's going to happen today, tomorrow, or even next year, but that's the path they're on. And here's why this is important. you the viewer, it's important to you, right? Because if you fall for this [\h__\h] and you start being cruel and you leave this digital footprint of cruelty, what's going to happen when the tide changes and you're on the other end of that, you'll be the victim, right? And you're going to have to deal with this. And all these people you were following who led you to believe that masculinity meant being cruel to people. Who led you to believe that making fun of others is and making them feel bad just because you can was how you become masculine. When the tide changes, you've left this digital pro footprint of carnage. For example, the kid cavicular, right? I ain't got no beef or no mollis to him. I don't know him. We got mutual friends, but I don't know him. I'm cool, right? You know, no issues. I ain't trying to diss him, right? He's like he he falls into that category like it's time to be masculine. I mean, I guess, right? His definition of masculinity and and freedom of speech, right? So, he's going around he's he's a white kid. and he's going around saying the n-word all the time, right? Because he can't. I don't even believe he's racist. Like I I I don't even believe he hates black people from what I know, from what I've seen, right? I just feel like he said, "Yo, I I'mma do it because I can. It's the First Amendment, you know, and it's like a a righteous indignation and he wants to prove that he can." And it works for him because he's a streamer, right? But let's say he's like 1920, right? Let's say he has some kids in a few years, right? And maybe he wants to send his kids to one of these big nice private schools. Well, I know what it's like when you want to send your kids to one of these nice private schools. You know, these tools is like 10 20k a year where give them the best advantages, right? They interview the kids, but they interview the parents, too. They look at what the parents did. What school is gonna let [laughter] is it in the Is it in the school's best interest to let those kids in if his parents are going around saying the N-word all the time, right? Is it in the school's best interest? Not saying is it right or wrong? Should they do it or not? Is it in the school's best interest to bring that kind of smoke towards them, right? Because all humans are going to act in their own uh self-interest. Remember that, right? So you got to you got to just try to think don't think about right or wrong free freedom of speech. I'm not saying it's right or wrong. I'm saying is it in the school's best interest and let's maybe that's not going to be his problem. Right? I'm using that example. I don't even know if he wants to have kids and maybe he wants to homeschool him. Maybe he's not worried about maybe it won't be a problem for him, right? He's making a lot of money streaming. Maybe it won't be a problem for him at all. What if you follow his lead? Are you making millions streaming off the internet? You know what I'm saying? Do you have enough money to buy yourself out of every problem like like Andrew Tate and Autos? You know, do you have enough money to hop in private jes? If not, maybe you should just be more cognizant of what you're putting out there. You get what I'm saying? And I'm not even saying what am I saying? I'm saying I don't want to get into the right or wrong and this should you be able to say anything you want or all this other stuff. You can say whatever you want but there are consequences. You know you there are consequences. You can do whatever you want. There are consequences, right? But I guess what I want to say is, do you have to? Why do you want to? Do you have to be cruel just because? You get what I'm saying? I'm I'm just using Calicular kid as example. Again, I ain't got no malice towards the the dude and I ain't got no beef with him, you know. Um he was on I I saw clipping him on Fresh and Fit, you know, and uh he was saying the N word and the black girl, she she got really upset about it, you know. She was like, "Yo, man, you can't say it." He said, "I can't say it. I can say whatever I want." And she said, "No, I can't." And he said, "I'll say it again." Then he just said it again. Right. There's a difference between freedom of speech and just being an [\h__\h] Right. Just doing it just cuz. Like, yeah, I can I can call a homosexual dude the f word or whatever, but why? Like, what what's what's what's the benefit of being cruel for no reason? If it's going to make people feel bad, why do it just cuz? Is there a is there a clear benefit for you? Right. For Kvicular, I get it. That was a viral moment for him and he went viral. Probably got him more streams, more fans. I get it. I'm talking about you. I'm not saying he should or shouldn't have did it. You know what I'm saying? Whatever. It'll put me in a precarious situation if I was there. You know what I'm saying? Because I want to respect Myin because we have uh we have a relationship, you know? But it would have put me in a position where I'd had to, you know what I'm saying? Like I'm a real Nick, [laughter] you know what I'm saying? Like for real. I'm not just saying it like they say it. You know what I'm saying? Like for real, you know? And um that have been an interesting situation that I I'm glad I didn't have to be a part of. Uh I don't I I just want to think about how you behave, you know, because we're in this we're still in the early phases of the victims of cancel culture and the victims of wokeism becoming the anti-woke bullies. We're still in that stage where they are still rising and be and be in being the bullies. They're in charge now, right? Do you have to be a bully? Right? Cuz if you cuz the bullies become the victims. Remember that the bullies always end up becoming the victims at some point. You don't have to be a bully, right? You don't have to You don't have to be cruel or inconsiderate or mean to be masculine. You know what I'm saying? You don't have to be a bully to be act a anti-woke. You don't have to be mean to be anti-woke. You get what I'm saying? I'm not woke, but I'm not an [\h__\h] either. You get what I'm saying? And you don't have to be a [\h__\h] jerk. You don't have to say things just to piss people off just because you can. In fact, some would argue that maybe you're doing that just to prove something. Maybe you have something to prove. But if you were really confident, really like secure in your masculinity, would you have to prove anything to anyone? You get what I'm saying? Would you have to diminish, demean, and belittle others for no reason if you were as confident as your hyper masculinity is meant to convey? Would that be necessary? Would that be appropriate? Now again, I'm not trying to diss Kalicular or anyone in the red pill space. I have relationships with a lot of these dudes. I'm cool with them. But you got to remember, these people are content creators. I'm a content creator. And a lot of content creators will do whatever they want to get the views, right? Because it makes money, you know? So, I'm not even saying they shouldn't do it. You know, remember, humans are always going to do what's in their own best interest. And if every time Kicular says the nword, he gets more views on his stream so he gets more money, he's being rewarded for it. So, he's going to keep doing it, you know? And I'm not even saying he shouldn't, right? It's, you know, I'm not here to make a judgment call on anyone. I'm just asking you, just telling you, you as the you as a viewer, you who doesn't get a ton of [\h__\h] streams, you who doesn't make a living as a as a professional influencer, right? Do you need to be cruel to be masculine? Do you need to be mean to be anti-woke? I [\h__\h] truly dislike that [\h__\h] I I truly dislike it. It makes me feel like I felt in high school when I saw people getting bullied and I wanted to [\h__\h] them up, right? That's how I that's that's how it makes me feel on the inside. So like when I saw Tucker Carson and it's like I ain't even got beef with Tucker Carson, right? I I I like his his Zen knockoff product better than Zen all that [\h__\h] right? I ain't even got beef with him. But when he was telling Pierce Morgan, you see that? Remember that clip he said, "Yo, man, say say the f word." I don't I don't even want to say it, right? He says, "Say the f word." And Pierce Morgan was like, "Oh, man. I I don't I can say it. I just don't want to." He says, "Say it." He said, "Say it. I just said it. It feels good." Right? It just feels good. It's like, but why? Right? If you know that it it hurts people, why do you need to be deliberately cruel just to prove that you can? What's masculine about that? What's masculine about that? Being cruel. just cuz you can. At the same time, I get why Tucker Mia did that, right? That was a viral clip. Other creators start talking about it. I'm talking about it now. Tucker is going to get more views. I accidentally shouted out his Zen product, right? You know what I'm saying? It probably made him more money. Pubans are always going to do what's in their own self-interest. So, I'm not really talking about the creators. Like, any of the creators I mentioned, I ain't got beef with none of y'all. I ain't talking [\h__\h] about none of y'all. Whatever. I I ain't I ain't out here trying to start [\h__\h] up or start internet drama. I'm not that dude. You know what I'm saying? If you know me, any of y'all know me, y'all know I'm not that dude. You know, if if I have a problem with you, it won't be on it won't nobody on the internet would know. You know what I'm saying? I can't eat evidence, you know? Uh, so I ain't got a problem with none of these people or what I'm what I'm trying to say is you you the viewer, don't let these influencers make you believe that masculinity equals cruelty because I think it's to the contrary.