Heat. Heat. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know what it is. Episode 199 of the Victory Talk podcast. got a special guest. I'm going introduce him later. I know this for like almost 10 years now. I'm super excited to have him on Victory Talk. Matter of fact, let's start the show. Enough time. Yeah. Yeah. You know what it is. It's another episode of that Victory Talk podcast. Episode 199. We got a special guest that I will introduce momentarily. But first, you know, I got to introduce myself and the team. I'm your ho, your humble and gracious host. The most humble [\h__\h] ever. I should get like a an award for humility. I never talk about how humble I am cuz I'm better than that. You know what I'm saying? But your humble and gracious host, Big Brandon Carter, BBC, King Keto, the king of ketosis, Gymnasium Jesus, Jesus de Himnazioe de la Washington Heights, you know. And I'm I'm not alone, man. I'm joined by the best the best producer in the game. The best producer in the game, man. The homie Nema straight out of Iran. Thank you. You know what it is, man. Let's go. He's like, "Man, yo, there's been a lot of good producers. There's a lot of good producers, man. Do we have the best producer in movies, Harvey Weinstein. The best producer in music, P. Diddy. And now we got Nema for podcast. You know what it is. He's out here, man. Doing it. Following a long line of great producers in every way." All right. But if not, not not I'm also joined by Movia. All right. You know what I'm saying? My girl, she going to be man in the super chats. She going to be reading your super chats, kicking out all the [\h__\h] haters, banning you, [\h__\h] You come here talking crazy, you going to get banned, banished, exiled, indefinitely. She can't wait to do it, man. She's She's Latina, right? So, you know, it's in her blood to ruin men's lives. So, she cannot wait to [\h__\h] uh uh uh you know what I'm saying? Seek her vengeance on you. You know what I'm saying? All right. Um, listen. We got a lot we want to cover today. First of all, first of all, you got the link for the for the free training in there. All right. Yo, two sponsors. One, first sponsor is me. These other [\h__\h] trying to sell you underwear, [\h__\h] high-tech mattresses, [\h__\h] salt salt drinks and [\h__\h] right? Not me. I'm my own sponsor, right? I'm doing a free training on Wednesday, tomorrow, 7 pm, uh, where I'll show you exactly how to grow your online fitness business. I'm going to break down how to get clients, how to market yourself, how to grow your following, get clients, right? How to make sales, how to actually sell high ticket to your clients, and how to train them online so they get great results. I'm going to break down the whole [\h__\h] for you, right? I've helped over 15,000 people grow successful online business, and I'm show you how to do it for free tomorrow. And I'm not even going to sell you nothing on there. I'm not even gonna say nothing. I know it's hard to believe, man, given my propensity to wanting to sell [\h__\h] to [\h__\h] But I'm not even gonna say you nothing, man. I'm just gonna give you all the game, but you got to register right now. Hit the link in the description. It will get filled up, right? So, hit the hit the [\h__\h] link now so you don't get so you don't miss out on that opportunity. All right. Now, second sponsor is, you know, this is a product. Me and Nimma, we've been working on this for a long time behind the scenes. We haven't talked about it much at all really. Um, but we've been working on it for about two years now and we're finally ready to bring it to market. Right? This is thought repellent. Thought repellent is is the easy to apply spray to keep the hoes away. Right? So, here's the thing. There's a lot of good women in the world, but there's a lot of [\h__\h] there's a lot of women who are dangerous belly mucho belly, right? And you know, they'll [\h__\h] your whole life up, right? Right. Thy repellent is genetically engineered by Nema. Help me out. He found some Iranian scientists from his home to work on it. So it's it's it's it's structured to to only work on the DNA of dots, hoes, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] holes, stank holes, skanks, jezebels, scallwags, skezers, and Puerto Ricans. And this I I can make that joke. I can make that joke. You know what I'm saying? Mucho and and it only works. The good women, they'll just be like, "Man, what is that amazing aroma?" You be like, "Yo, just stop repelling, baby." You know what I'm saying? But then, but if a [\h__\h] thought or a skank try to come next to you, man, she'll like go into convulsions or something. It'll be like a force field. They'll be impenetrable, right? You can spray this around your I spray this around my home. If I forget to do this, man, it'll be like the end of I am legend up in here, man. Except it won't be zombies and [\h__\h] It'll be [\h__\h] Only Fans hoes trying to get in the [\h__\h] p trying to get in the [\h__\h] condo. All right, so we're going to have this out by to the public, but we need your help. We need your super chats. All your super chats go for development of thigh repellent. We want to have it in in stores by this summer. The summer is close, right? That because that's the thought mating season. Right? And we want to keep you safe, man. All right. So, all your super chats go towards this. Listen, now here's the thing. The FDA says we got to say the side effects. No big deal. Small side effects. Side effects include, but are not limited to erectile explosions, Brazilian wax jiu-jitsu, off-white privilege, minor lung explosions, involuntary Wakanda accent. We have to keep the O's away. Infinity Kidney Stones, Gaza Strip Club. Nemo, I don't know if you can laugh at that. Uh, NRA memberships, Postnut Charity, Racism Flavored Tears, Saber-tooth Seaman, Kentucky Fried Chicken Pops, and No Slave November. All right, small price to pay to keep the thoughts away, right? All your super chats go towards development of Thought Repellent. Now, without further ado, it's time to introduce my guest. I've known this dude for a goddamn decade now. All right. He's He's a military officer, a decorated military officer and high performance coach. He's been taking the internet by storm lately. Right. The homie Michael Sartine. What up, man? Hey, what's going on, man? I'm excited about No Slave November. I was really I'm kind of glad we're doing that. It's about time. Yeah, it's only one month. You know what I'm saying? What are we going to do after 11 months? It's only one month. Small price to me. Yeah, it's great. So, man, listen listen, you know, tell tell the people about yourself. You know, I know I've known you for med, but how to the people who don't know know you, let them know what's up. So, so you and I actually met at uh Owen Cook. We had a dinner at um the uh Venetian. We all went together. It was like his whole team and I think you were speaking there. I think that was the first time we met. And the the whole thing the the backstory comes so I flew speech special I flew special ops for 5 years and then I did counter intelligence for two years for the US Air Force. Then when I got out I moved here um and I was still like loosely involved with like the pickup community but I was more involved in like male self-improvement. Owen went for Marsd if y'all don't know RZ Tyler Lizzy Tyler who's like big brother to me and [\h__\h] at home. Um and so I met a lot of those guys. I actually worked as an approach coach for like mystery for a little while and then I met Owen much later. I actually met uh Neil Strauss as well. And um there was this thing where it's like I I'll tell you right now the stuff that like Mystery was doing as far as the pickup artist if anybody remembers that the the book The Gang that was probably the best thing you could do in 2003 cuz there's no social media back then, right? It wasn't the guy uh with the Bugatti stealing your girl and taking her, flying her to Dubai. That what didn't exist cuz there was no social media back then. So, actually like what they were doing was probably the most optimal. And what happened over time, and it's not just pickup artists, but it was just like the whole dating community. Social media came out and for men it was actually more important than for women. Women could just be kind of all right, reach out to celebrities and then get those guys to like message back. Yeah. Men, if men had bad social media, like nobody noticed you. Like you just didn't even matter. Like how how often do you talk to your neighbors? Do you talk to your neighbors here very often? I don't I don't You don't know any of them. When I was growing up, when I was growing back back in the 1980s, I knew all my neighbors. We don't do that anymore. We we're so stuck to our phone. We we live in a very different society. Uh the malls and and uh and coffee shops are not filled with beautiful women. It's like we're we live in a very different time. And so because of that, uh a few things that happened was number one, um social media was kind of missed by the whole dating community, pickup artists. They they push way more towards dating apps, which I I have tons of stats on this. There's nine times as many guys as girls on Tinder. Really? Yeah. It's a it's a disaster. The average guy on a dating app matches with six out of every 1,000 right swipes. And 69% of men have reported having a not a a plutonic relationship from from a dating app. So, you're paying money to a dating app. Yeah. Uh and they're actually you're getting friend-zoned. Wow. Isn't that great? I would rather a girl spit in my face, honestly. That's then then get friend zone. And here's the other one. You know those super you know those roses and the and the super uh likes that you can do on those dating apps. I haven't been on one for a minute. I've had I've been I had AI been in a relationship for three years and then I was in a relationship for like two years right before that. There's a new thing on Bumble. You can pay 500 bucks a month and they'll actually let you message the girls first. Like it's But here's the crazy thing. The people who buy the roses and the super chat, their their match rate gets cut in half. So the dating apps actually have you spending more money to have worse results with women. Ain't that is some [\h__\h] Ain't it crazy? It goes 2% to 1%. Go ahead. So why is that? So you bring that up because the stuff that you teach, right, is it's is different than what Owen and and and even before that mystery. I never met mystery, man. I' only heard great things about Right. You know what I'm saying? The uh what what they taught, right? Your stuff is different. Explain how. Um, so the three things that I kind of figured out that were very different was number one, social media is the is the easiest way for you to show status with low perceived effort. Yeah. If if you were an accountant or if you're a plastic surgeon or if you were a car salesman and you're like, "Hey, we're going to not use the social media at all in order to advertise." We'd look at you like you're a [\h__\h] Like, what's wrong with you? But it's not even that it's bad advice. We would look at you like you were insane if you said that. Yeah. We're both like in our 40s, right? So like it's kind not having social media now is the way it was. Remember when people first started using email and some of us was like I'm not I don't have email. And they got to the point where they were weird. That's what you were weird for not having internet, not having social media, not having a cell phone back in like 02 03. Yeah. Like it it was it was like that. And so what happened was um a lot of uh the first thing is that they didn't understand the the main thing about social media is that you can show status while you sleep. So, for instance, if I invest in a in a if I have an investment property or I invest in a certificate of deposit, it gives me interest while I sleep. If you have if you have Brandon Carter social media, right, and you obviously you're in a relationship, but if you were single, I get a girlfriend. Yeah, you have a girlfriend. But if you were but if you were single, let's just say you bump into a girl out at some venue or whatever. Now, between that time and the first time you guys meet up for a date or hang out or whatever, she's looking at your social media and it's building attraction while you sleep. This is real hard for guys to grasp. And here's the other thing, and you probably Well, again, you're in a relationship, so maybe But I think at one point, yes, women are flakier now than they were 20 years ago. It's not even close. It's It's insane how flaky they are. I talk to I I'll be in a room, hundred guys, I'm giving a speech. I be like, "Who here's not who's here's been dating for more than 15 years?" And they'll raise their hand. It's like, "Who here has noticed women are more flaky in the last decade or whatever?" And 100% of them will see this. And the reason why is they get their validation through social media. They get their validation online. And two extreme examples, they get a validation from Only Fans. $6.6 billion dollars went to Only Fans creators. Yeah. You want to know the craziest stat? And here it's I mean, probably won't be surprised. You live in Miami, so it's it's this is the only fans capital of of the world. Yeah. There are 52 million women in the United States between like say 20 and 40. And we'll just say those the only fans years mostly, right? Maybe 20 to 35 somewhere in that area. There's a market for over 40. Well, there is a market, but but let's just say most women over 40 are only fans. Uh there's 1.4 million women on Only Fans. Wow. Okay. That means that about 3% of women or one out of every 30 women you meet in the country is on OAF. Wow. Wow. Do you Now, for those of you who are listening to this like, well, one out of 30 doesn't sound that bad. No, no. It's not the girl on OF. It's the It's the girl who watches her. So, she goes to a gym and she pulls up in a Mayback because she's making a 100K a month, right? But what does that do to all the other women in that gym? What what it does is instead of becoming a surgical nurse, finishing their master's degree, or becoming a mother, what they do is they see that and they're like, "Oh [\h__\h] 100 grand a month." And so there's downstream ramifications for all these other women who are seeing this and you're not you're doing a couple things. You're taking women who might be qualified for certain jobs like a nurse out of the marketplace. And then additionally, you're you're teaching women at a very young age to sell their sexuality before anything else instead of working on any other skill set. And so again, I'm not I'm not here Only Fans isn't going away. But what I'm saying is this is the downstream ramification. So now I'm not saying that the guys who are on these dating apps are all trying to date Only Fans creators. What I'm saying is it's the girls. It's the few derivatives down from those girls. They're like, "Well, no, I have a friend. She's going to Dubai. She's going to Monaco. She's doing this. That's what I deserve as well." And so, because she can [\h__\h] a 10, she thinks she can date a nine. And that's where that's where we get into a problem. So, like for instance, for us as men, our net worth is based on a a number that is in our bank account, right? Our accountant can tell us our net worth. It's not subjective. It might be subjective when it comes to like what you your sale price for your home, but for the most part or like what you can sell like what me and you could sell our businesses for. That's subjective. But if we did sell it all, there would be an objective number. And that number is where supply and demand meets. When we we as men, we understand this concept. For me, my sexual market value is based on w on how many attractive women would be willing to have sex with me. That is it is crass. And as [\h__\h] horrible as that sounds, that is actually how your sexual market value is. It doesn't mean you're a good person. You can be a terrible person and have a lot of women want to sleep with you. You can be I know some of those guys. Yes. You can be you can be a great person and have no women want to sleep with you. I know some of those guys. Yes. Correct. So you're we're just talking sexual market value. So that's easy for us to understand as a man. And if you see a guy who's like punching way above his weight, he's like 5'4 and he's like banging tens and he's not using any money to do it. We would be like, "Wow, that's amazing." that we're accomplish with women. Women, their sexual market value is defined by the highest status men they can get to commit. Yeah. But they think it's sex. Well, that's But they think it's sex. They think because they [\h__\h] Drake and in their mind Drake is a 10. Yeah. Therefore, they're a 10. Uh, and then when they but then you're like, well, who can you get to commit? And they can't get anyone to commit. And they don't understand that that their sexual market value is based on the highest status man they can get to commit. And here's the other part. No matter how they feel about themselves, their SMV is not based on their internal feelings. So when they call themselves a 10, it's like that's fine that you believe about that about yourself, but the but remember as a man, I don't get to define how much money I have. The market tells me what I'm worth. So you don't get to define what your rating is in a sexual marketplace. The market will tell you that and then you'll be confused because you'll get so much attention from very wealthy men, high status men, handsome men, famous men and you'll you'll confuse that attention for thinking that's the value that I have. Yeah. Not recogn Do you remember Zion Williamson plays power forward for the uh Yeah, I remember Zion. You I know you love basketball. Like we were the same in that regard. So, so, so remember Zion is about he's announcing that he's having a baby with his girlfriend. And then the porn star that he [\h__\h] she's on there being like, "Why are you with this [\h__\h] Like, you're you're supposed to be with me, blah, blah, blah." And that that prostitute I'm sorry, the pro the porn star, she thought, it's exactly the same thing. She thought because she had sex with Zion that she's on par with Zion's girl. Like, no, you're not on. But do you understand how that screws her up for the rest of her life? She's never going to be able to make the supply the supply curve and the demand curve meet. They'll never meet because she thinks she's somewhere where she truly isn't. The difference between where you think you are and where you actually are, that is delusion. Michael Jordan wasn't delusional. He really was the best player in the world. Yeah. If a girl is actually a six and thinks that she can marry a 10, that is delusion. And so what does that do? All the people that she could be in happy relationships with, she doesn't give them uh uh any chance. which goes that other study we were talking about before this. There's a crazy study that goes over what happens to human beings when they see unattractive people. So women find 80% of men on on um dating apps to be unattractive. Okay, that doesn't make any sense when you think about it. So average level of attractiveness is the top 20% of men that like how does that make sense for men? We're the opposite. The 50th percent like an average looking woman we would say is average. You and I would probably agree that girl is a five. That means half the girls are less attractive than her, half the girls are more attractive than her. And then we saw a girl with like perfect facial symmetry, looks young, super hot. We'd be like, "That girl's a 10." We probably agree to a certain extent on who's a nine, who's a 10, etc. Yeah. The like, you know, at the at the top end is like that's where like there might be some variations. There might be some variations. Like I like big butts, you like big boobs, whatever. Yeah. For sure. But for the most part, we would kind of see the same things. We would see that that same uh with a large enough sample size, we' we'd come to like agreements. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. And so that that's like kind of the massive difference. Whereas with women, uh, they can't agree necessarily on like who Well, here's the thing with women for when it comes to just physical attractiveness, they're so selective and picky. And they become picky because of dating apps, uh, only me, only fans in social media. They become so picky that they're starting to see this like top 20% is again, if you get a taste for the finer things and you only eat at the best steakous and you only drive a four $400,000 supercar, you start to only see those things as being attractive. These women are getting that level of stimulus. Do you understand? This is the crazy part. When you think about Kim Kardashian, who probably does know a bunch of famous people, and then the average thought chick who lives in Miami, their images on social media are the same. You mean what they see? What they see. So like they're entitled to the same level of stimulus. Does that make sense? The perfect 10 Ukrainian model who literally could get anyone and the girl who lives in Witchah who's slightly overweight, but she's the prettiest girl at her hooters. They get the same images on social media. Mhm. And so they start believing like it starts warping their brain the same. So here's the crazy part. Women find 80% of men on on dating apps to be unattractive. 80%. That's [\h__\h] crazy when you think about how picky that is. So here's what happens when humans see individuals that are unattractive. We talked about this before before the the this call. Men see them as annoyances. So when we see women that are unattractive, there's this part and this has to do by the way with uh your caveman's necessity to avoid disease. People who had asymmetrical faces may have had some sort of parasite or disease. So we we avoid asymmetry and and things like that. And it's also generally why we don't find 70 year old women attractive because they don't look they don't have that youthful symmetrical look. Mhm. So when we see that as men, we do find that annoying when we see women that are unattractive. Here's the crazy part. Women don't see unattractive men as annoying. They just don't see them at all. They legitimately dehumanize them. They see unattractive men as the same thing as an inanimate object, a pencil on the table. We were talking to this before. Tons of data on this. Yeah. Girls, girls will say something like, "Man, you know, there's no the nobody works in Miami. Nobody I hear girls saying, nobody work what everybody nobody works." I'm like, "Motherfucker, there's somebody working in your building like in the lobby. There's [\h__\h] working at the gym. There's [\h__\h] working at at the restaurants you go to every day where you get your [\h__\h] matcha [\h__\h] There's people working there. They don't even see these people. Like, they're not even real people." So, so here's the here's the other part. Uh, I I was on Saucecast one time and we were doing surveys with these girls and they're like, "What do you think is the biggest problem with dating in Miami and this and this girl goes, "Well, the problem is like all they care about is their Bugattis." And I'm like, "I don't think there are 300 Bugattis in the entire United States." Like you, it's just so crazy how That's the only guy she saw. Yeah, that's the only guy she saw. She literally didn't see the other ones. There's like five Bugattis in Miami. It's just madness. It's m and when you see that when you see that kind of thing and then you come to the realization it's like and by the way at no point am I blaming women. This is where I'm going to separate from a lot of other content creators like this. This is just a function of Charles Darwin. It's a function of evolution. We're totally mismatched. Have you ever seen um there's these stories about Aboriginal people when they give them McDonald's they all end up with diabetes because they're not they're not evolutionarily matched to have that much much carb, sugar, and fat. Most humans are not. That's why we have an obesity problem in this country. It's called an evolutionary mismatch. So for women and men to get this much So for men to see this much non-contextual sexual images like pornography, that's a that's an evolutionary mismatch. And for women to see to get this much attention, do you understand like Tyreek Hill, the wide receiver for the the Miami Dolphins, probably doesn't get as many women in his DMs as the average hot Colombian chick in this city gets from men. Do you understand? You could be a famous NFL player and you probably don't get as much much thrown at you as an average woman does. Yeah. Right. And so so you come to that realization then it's like okay well now we have this whole thing where it's just tilted towards this small group of men who are physically attractive and then which comes into and I I know I'm leading you down this path this narrative but I've been doing this research all week really fascinating. There's another study that shows that the longer people have known each other, the more likely it is that their uh attractiveness levels do not correlate. Oh, you know, before we get, let me lead you into that, right? Because, okay, you teach something different than most of the guys who talk about dating, right? Most of the guys saying you should never have female friends. I don't want female friends. And I always thought that was kind of stupid because I just felt like, you know, you have more opportunities to date women if you have a lot of female friends around for a variety of reasons. One, it's having female friends is social proof to the other girls, right? And also, those girls have like friends and family members who might want to mate with you at some point, right? You know, but you're the only person in in the in Yes. in the dating world who actually teach us to actually have female friends which I think is is dope. Can you talk about that more? Yeah. So, there's three main reasons why you So, a lot of guys get really bent out of shape when they hear the term female friends. So, we'll say female teammates so that you guys don't lose your mind. Having female teammates, people that are in the U Army that are on your side. There's three reasons why you have them. Number one, they give you access to incredible places. Can you imagine you and me and 10 guys trying to get into Mr. Jones like on a Friday night? It's not happening. If we spend 100 grand, it's not happening. They're not they're not letting us in there, right? But if I go if I show up with 10 girls, I don't even have to pay to get in. I used to go to the Playboy Mansion for free, the tickets were $1,500, but I would bring 20 or 30 girls with me. So me having women around me, like here's the crazy thing in Vegas, it's probably like this in Miami. If I take two girls to dinner, it's going to be $3 $400. If I take 10 girls to dinner, it's free. Yeah, it's free because it's a comp. That's the way it works. So what happens is number one, and also I go to a lot of self-help conferences. It may be the Aspire tour, Apex tour. I might go see Tai Lopez speak, whoever. When I do, I always show up with girls and they are every guy in there is like, "Who the [\h__\h] is this guy who showed up to this room where it's 99 dudes for every woman and he's got six hot girls with him?" So, number one, having female friends gets you access. Number two, it makes you calibrated. A lot of guys are just if I put if take your average client and you put him in front. So, ready? Here's you. You want this dream girl? Ready? Here we go. Here's your dream girl. I'm going to put her right in front of you. You pee yourself. Your eyes get big. Your voice cracks. You start palm start sweating. You start like all these your voice gets high like this. Hey, you want to go get a drink? Like you you watch I watch this happen all the time. If I put your dream girl in front of you, you don't have the technology. You don't have the skill set, the strategy. You do not you don't have the experience. You don't have the expertise, the intuition to be able to deal with this attractive woman in front of you. You start talking crazy, acting crazy. But if you're surrounded by beautiful women all the time, which for me, my my point of having that is I managed a strip club for four years. And so I was constantly around just naked women all the time. They would sexualize, get groped in the DJ booth. I just totally and completely unaffected by their boobs. Like their nudity and physical attractiveness was totally lost. Desensitized, completely desensitized. And I just noticed how insanely attracted they got to me because I was totally desensitized by it. a lot of sense. So that's the second thing is it desensitizes you to your dream girl. If you're around a bunch of girls who look like Megan Fox all the time, when you meet Megan Fox, it doesn't trick you. Flip out because Yeah. And number three, here's the big one. And any guy who works in sales who understands anything about referrals, you understand this concept. Come on, man. Tell them about the referrals. Women introduce you to more women. And here's the crazy part. The girl that you friend zone and she introduces you to your friend and you start getting her friend, guess what happens after a year? The first girl who you friend-zone now she has a crush on you. She It's so I had a girlfriend. But you got you got to keep her in the friend zone. You got to friend zone her. Yes, you have. So that's the main thing. You have to friend-zone women. This is so hard for people to grasp. If you're a man you've ever been friend-zoned, it's the worst. I actually would rather be cheated on than get friend-zoned. I hate being friend-zoned. You go after a girl and she tries to friend-zone you. But again, in order for you to get friend-zoned, you have to accept you have to but you have to accept the demotion. You and I are friends. At no point did I say, "Hey, let's just be friends." Cuz we're f cuz we're men, right? But that's the thing. That's the difference. But with a woman, it's like she says, "Let's just be friends." What is she saying? He's like, "Your penis is not worthy. You are not worthy of sexual access. So, I'm going to demote you to this position." Basically called you a [\h__\h] For sure. And here's what makes it worse. All of her other female friends, they know she friends on you, too. So, you you are either a beta male, look like you have a micro penis, whatever it is. I had a friend of mine, this a girl that I'm friends with, and her and I are like, she's always had a boyfriend since I've known her. We've never hit on each other. We've been friends for maybe 12 years, and um she keeps seeing me like I'm not her type, and she's actually not my type, but she's very attractive. She's just not my type. And she went up to my best friend kind I'm just [\h__\h] with you. Keep going. No, no, no. She's she's really she's really pretty. It's so funny. All of my all of my clients think she's like the hottest chick ever. Okay. So, she comes up to my best friend kindly who again, my best friend is a Playboy model with 3 million followers who has gotten me laid so many times. I really I seriously like I would do anything for this girl. Like, every time I walk up to a girl with this with this girl, it's no there's no effort. There's no work involved. Uh she goes up to my best friend Kylie and she goes she goes, "How how is Michael with hot girls all the does he have a humongous penis? Like, why is that? How is he always with hot girls? her reality is breaking because she doesn't see me as that physically attractive. But but she keeps seeing me with beautiful women all the time and it's confusing her and she's trying to she's trying to square the circle and that that not in her situation cuz you she has a boyfriend. I know her boyfriend. But in general, that's what generates attraction. Yeah. That's what generates attraction. Social proof. Social proof. Social proof. Yeah. So social proof. So this is a really crazy distinction for those of you really into the evolutionary psychology stuff here. Social proof and pre-selection. Pre-selection is actually called make choice copying a human. Yeah. Yeah. We got it over here in artif buzz. Yeah. Make choice copying and uh uh social proof are two separate phenomenon. And I used to think they were the same phenomenon. Meaning, so here's what happens. If you have a bunch of beautiful women with you and they see you on a regular basis with a bunch of beautiful women, two things happen. Number one, women do find you more attractive. But number two, men also want to network with you and you are perceived as higher status. These are two separate phenomena that I was not aware. I used to think they were the same phenomenon. They are two psychologically different phenomenon. And it's something that I've noticed is like I don't have any my favorite podcasters they generally ask me to come on. Why? Because I'm surrounded by beautiful women. It's one of these things where it's like because people ask me all the time about like Andrew Tate. How do I meet Andrew Tate? The reason why I met Andrew Tate is because I had a bunch of videos of me with like stunning girls all the time and he would and he his team messaged me and then that's how we connected, right? That's how we did it because some guy same thing like Fresh says this all the time. He goes, "Michael, you're the only guy who I know who says that he can do this [\h__\h] and then when I go to Vegas, everything you say is true. You're surrounded by hot girls. You get us on stage at every single nightclub. There's no Why is that? It's because of the networking that I do that allows me that ability." But let's go back to that study that we mentioned before. Mhm. And when when people knew each other for for a period of time, so let's say a man and a woman meet if they start dating within the first month, their attractiveness correlates to a high degree. Okay? So the best way to date a super hot girl that you just met is to be a super hot man according to this study. Okay? Uh her name is uh Lucy Hunt was did this study back in 2015. Okay? And then later on uh it goes at four four months, five months that correlation it starts at about 7, it drops to like 0.5.4 4.3. So, it's like you can actually be less attractive, but if you've known the girl for four months, it's actually more likely. But here's the crazy part. At 9 months, this the statistical correlation is not significantly different from zero. That's the exact wording in the study. Meaning, there's no correlation. So, if you're the guy who's the five and you want to date the 10, you put her in the friend zone for 9 months. And the data now completely supports what we teach in Men of Action, my course. That it completely supports this now. And so that's why a lot of people have had a hard time with it because a lot of guys in the in this space, they're they're angry at women and they've been and they've been friend-zoned by women. So the idea of having women help you meet other women is so anathema. I didn't say go to women for dating advice. That's not what I said. What I said was have the girl go with six girls and they get you invited. It's like you're going to the club and they're like, "Hey, I just got invited to a mansion party." There's like 25 girls and like three dudes there. Uh he said you can come cuz you got six girls with them. And now you're at a mansion party. You're meeting a billionaire while at a party where there's seven girls for every guy. Yeah. You got access. And let's just say for this example, all the girls that were in your Range Rover, all seven of them, you weren't sleeping with any of them. But when you go to that party, you walked in with seven girls. And now every other girl at the party's like, "Who the [\h__\h] is this dude who just walked in with seven girls?" And it's just so it's really crazy because like Brandon, we can't make them taller. We can't change their eye color. We can't change their skin color. We can make them richer. We can't talking about the guys. We we can't we can't we can do certain things but one thing is always free and that is like the perception of status and pre-selection. Those things we can get any guy for free. So sand deepep from New Delhi or the 5'5 Filipino cashier those guys if they have pre-selection their attractiveness in the eyes of women increases. Remember what I said before if women don't see you as attractive you don't even exist to them. You literally are an inanimate object to them. And so that's the thing that's crazy. And by the way, if anybody wants, they can message me. I will give you the data to support. I will show you the studies that support everything I'm saying. None of this is trust me. We have Instagram in the I have the YouTube. I'm going to have the Instagram as well. For sure. And so because a lot of people like the And there's a really funny thing that I've noticed, Brandon, is when I express my opinion, I don't really get that much hate. When I show data that actually enforces my opinion, people lose their more hate from the data. The the data the the body count stuff. It's true. Like really, men and women who have higher body counts are less happy in a marriage. It's true for men and women, but it's twice as true for women. That nobody likes that. That is a biological double standard. And it's almost like it's almost like biology is misogynistic. It is true. When women have a higher It's almost like a woman's dissatisfaction at a body count of 20 is equal to a man's dissatisfaction of body count of 40. Does that make sense? I'm way oversimplifying this, but the variation is about 2 to one. Whereas women, their dissatisfaction per partner before they get married in is twice as much as it is for men. Well, the problem is that that pisses a lot of people off because what does it do? It sounds like I'm encouraging men to [\h__\h] a bunch of women and women to to stay celibate. It's not But I'm not telling do whatever you want. I have friends that are porn stars. I love them as people. I just don't want to date them. Yeah. I just don't want to date them, right? Well, you know what? I wanted to get back in that. But like the the friend thing, right? Like it was cuz I wouldn't say cuz I felt like I would get too much hate from the manosphere. I say you it's okay to have girlfriends, but it it was just it was it's been a cheat code for me in many areas of life. One um there used to be this girl I forget her name. She used to work for me and she was in like all my videos back when I was in New York and um people found her attractive, right? And and every time like I would post her like girls would start DMing me say what's I was like, "Yo, this is crazy." Like, it's the way the female brain works. And then I yo, okay, so I I I I would have a lot a lot of female friends in New York. Just girls I was cool with, right? And I would introduce them to like some of my homies, maybe somebody I want to do business with, right? And I've gotten deals. Yeah. She got deals done, you know? Yeah. I made money on my female friends by and with just introducing them to other dudes, right? So maybe, you know, I introduce her to a baller, she's happy. I introduced the baller to a to a a [\h__\h] New York City model. Then it's like everyone's happy. I don't know what happens after that. I don't even care the fact that I did it. Even if she they don't end up doing that thing, the fact that I did it the do there's reciprocity there from the term we call that is value arbitrage. So you made a deal. So arbitrage means I make a riskfree in transaction. If I introduce a man who has a val like societal value of a 10 to a woman who has a societal value of a 10, they then look at me as a 10. It's like uklitian geometry of A equals B and B equals C, then C equals A. It's the same kind of situation. So I've done this several times before where it has been the billionaire and the Ukrainian runway model. I introduce them to each other and both of them see me on par with them. That's the arbitrage. I'm meaning I'm my status in their eyes has increased and I did nothing. I risk nothing in order to do it. Yeah. So that's why what you're saying of course networking and think about this man this is this is really for people who don't understand why this is so important. Let let me just try take this back like for the survival of your of of the species. If you consider men prefire so men men human beings created fire about 1.7 million years ago. And in that time period before that uh men did not have the the brain capacity. We're talking about homminids. There was no homo sapiens until 200,000 years ago. But they couldn't kill the lion, the tiger, the bear. They couldn't kill the apex predators. Human beings were not the apex predator on the planet until what? They started working together. A homo sapien is the apex predator on the planet, but not one homo sapien. It's a team of them working together with spears and planning things out and knowing that the prey is going to be at the watering hole at this time and doing path finding and ch and the other thing is um human beings because of our advanced sweat glands we can travel longer distances walking than almost any animal on the planet. That's right. Cuz dogs don't dogs and cats don't have sweat glands. They have to pant. Well, by the way, this is also the reason why the hundred people 100 men would kill a gorilla is cuz the gorilla would wear itself out. Yeah. Gorilla gorillas only have sweat glands in their armpits. They don't have sweat glands all over their body. They would overheat very quickly. The fir first first guys would get their [\h__\h] up they die. But like Yeah. Yeah. So So uh going back to what I said before, it's like as human beings, how did we how were we able to um how were we able to overcome that when we were when we were you know uh ancestral. And there's a few things like we said before about um the human beings when we see people that are unattractive. So, just consider this like you're a a plastician homo sapien. Um, and oh, I know I forgot. I'm sorry. I switched subjects here. We're not the apex predator until we start working together as human beings and then we are networking. So, what would you say is since our ancestors and those are the ones who had more access to women and then reproduced that the networking gene continues to get passed down. And so what what happens is throughout history you see a correlation between the men who are the best networkers and the men who have the access to the most resources and the most sexual access throughout history. It's ubiquitous. It's just the way it works. You even see it with certain primates where like the two beta males will team up to kill the alpha male. You will see that right? What is that? That is cooperation and networking that happens. And it's it does work sometimes like that. But like that's the thing. And so we as humans, the more we get into our phone, the worse we become at networking. We can't read facial cues in real life. We get wor this again, remember evolutionary mismatch. This is the mismatch. And so we get worse and worse at being able to to talk to other people. And so now our networking skill set, it gets duller and duller. And so now the guys who actually work on that skill set have more access to deals and more access to girls. Exactly. That makes a lot of sense, man. Yeah. So I I really encourage I'm glad you're saying it because I ain't want to be the one to say it. I just going to call I got I got called so many [\h__\h] names for the last 16 years because I said this and then I was like, "Bro, look at my IG." Like, I'm dating the like, again, I'm not saying that I'm dating the hottest girls. What I'm saying is I'm nobody with driving a 10year-old Lexus with a with a you know, I I got my first Rolex. Thank you. Appreciate it. I just bought my just uh It's new. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My uh Owen Owen twisted my arm and got me to buy a sky. Hey, I like it. Yeah, I was talking to him about he's about to get an RM. For sure. For sure. Um, so, so the uh the whole situation happens and you know, you're sitting there trying to impress these women. You're sitting there trying to do a bunch of stuff, but it's it's very difficult as a human being to be able to compete with all these other individuals throughout history. And you see like again the Places Homo sapiens, what did they do? Theyworked. And the ones that had an advantage over everyone else. You become this incredible force. Now, here's the other thing. What are we what are like the most highest watched shows we see on TV? It's like the World Cup. What are we watching? Men com with other men competing to accomplish a goal. What are we seeing when the Super Bowl? It's the same kind of thing. We watch people team up in groups. And I will say that I've said this a million times. The apex of human existence is accomplishing goals with other people. Yeah. And having a family. Like those are the two things. And by the way, having a family, you're also accomplishing a goal with with another person. And so that's why our species survived as long as it did is because our ability to network. And so now when you guys hear me talk so much about networking and social media and all this kind of stuff, understand that's where it comes from. Your ancestors did all this work. And here's the other thing I want you to think about. If you're a guy watching this and you haven't been with a woman in four or five years, you know, you're not doing well financially, you're living with your mother, whatever. I want you to think about the brutish, hellish nature that your ancestors had to go through just to get to [\h__\h] one woman. Mhm. 40% of men throughout history and 80% of women have women have reproduced which means 60% of men throughout history did not reproduce. That's the competitive nature of it. Think about all the thing the predators they had to kill. The fortifications they built, all the protection, all the things that your male ancestors did to survive just so they could have one wife they could have a kid with. Yeah. all that brutish, horrible nature just so you could sit there like a fat [\h__\h] and play video games and watch porn. Think about your ancestors watching you right now and how weak you are in comparison like all the sacrifices they made just so they could reproduce just so they could have you. Yeah. If you don't if you think about that, then it's just like I would be embarrassed thinking about my ancestors from like the 1850s just seeing like what? No, I'm going to go out and accomplish [\h__\h] Yo, I tell other black people this all the time, man. I can I can say this, but you might want to stay stay out of this one, but I tell them um like, "Yo, bro, when when they tell me they're broke, I get so mad. I'm like, yo, man, just not way not long ago." Yeah. Right. [\h__\h] were actually fighting for us to have the opportunities we have right now. get so [\h__\h] frustrated when a black guy is is broke because we have all way opportunities now that were fought for, people died for. And people call me a sellout for saying that. I'm like, "No, man. You need to take advantage of the opportunities." But I I I didn't even think about taking it back to [\h__\h] prehistoric time. I was taking back to the 60s. Yeah. You you you are you are the result of an unbroken almost blockchain of DNA that goes all the way back to Oralopythecus 3 million years ago. like you you the only thing I know about every person you've ever met Yeah. is that their ancestors successfully reproduced. That's the only thing I know for certain. And so if that's the only thing we all have in correlation, then you need to ask yourself like think about all the dude life is so easy now. Do you understand before this is one of my favorite stats for any of these these pickup artists and guys who are players before the year before the uh advent of broadspectctrum antibiotics syphilis had a 58% mortality rate. Imagine all your friends you knew who got syphilis, gorrhea, chlamyia, whatever. 58% mortality rate. There's no condoms. And there's no Yeah. I mean, consider how crazy that is. You don't understand how lucky, dude. We're sitting here in an airond conditioned place right now. Like, it's we have electricity. Oh, I want food. Boop. And then food just shows up. You know, the problem is it's easy to be a lazy [\h__\h] now because even somebody on [\h__\h] section 8 welfare or whatever, their lives are better than like kings from 200 years ago. That's a great example. So So the the example I use is Henry VII died of gout. Okay. Henry Well, so I I know homeless people who can get treatment for gout now. And Henry VII died of gout in the 1560s. He had no air conditioning. Yeah, exactly. He had no air conditioning. He would he he'd [\h__\h] out in the in outside and openly devocate all this kind of stuff. If you want to get entertained, he had to [\h__\h] call the jester. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. No internet, video games, you know. His wife annoyed him. He had to kill her. Like it was Think about all that. And he kept he had to keep killing them. And uh I I Bro, I remember not having cable. And I You remember when we were kids, like real little not having being remember how boring it would be sometimes as a little kid with no cable? go to my friend's place because they had cable or they had a Nintendo. Yeah. Oh my god. If they had a Nintendo, I'd lose my mind. I remember not having Nintendo or cable and there was nothing for kids to watch until Saturday. Right now, my son, he can he got any [\h__\h] cartoon he wants to watch on demand video game. Your son can go back and watch every episode of the Transformers that we missed back in 1984, 1986. That he can go back and watch every episode for free on the internet now. And we couldn't do that. So, yeah, you're right. It just gets it's just gotten progressively easier. And here's the here's the thing. Here's how I try to remember it. Um peaceful people can sleep comfortably in their night in their bed at night because there are roughed men somewhere else willing to do violence on their behalf. As long as we recognize that the society that we have today is only exists because of a few brutish violent men who are willing to chisel out this cubby hole of safetiness so that we can argue whether or not men should wrestle in in in high school wrestling. Yeah. whether or not you the crazy things that we still debate fight about that dumb [\h__\h] is like yo yeah I get what you're saying. Yeah. But the only reason we can have that debate the only reason Mia Khalifa can say it's worse that you join the military than you do porn. Right. Cuz at least in the military you're giving the government your body or whatever she said. The only reason she can say that is because men in the military who were incredibly violent were willing to carve out this cubby hole where she could say stupid [\h__\h] And she people we just forget that. And that's what happens as society gets easier and more technologically advanced, it breeds weaker men. And those weaker men as they take over and then you start seeing like you need to go to therapy and become more vulnerable. It's like that's insane. Like are you serious? [\h__\h] men. Let me listen it. You and I probably have several friends. They just started telling their girlfriend their problems and the girl just left. Right. Yeah. I've seen it. Yeah. If you if you want you want your girl to leave really quick, just tell her all your problems. Now, if these women are leaving these men when they tell them their problems and we're being told to be more expressive and to talk about our feelings more with our partner and then that's causing them to leave these men, it sounds like a trap to me. That's what it sounds like. The American Psychological Association back in 2018, they put out this paper basically saying that uh talk that traditional masculinity was harmful and they specifically talked about aggression, assertiveness, and like stoicism. Oh, yeah. Stoicism is harmful. Like who do you think like puts out the fire when your house is burning and and saves your children? Is it excited crazy men who are crying or is it stoic? Yeah, exactly. Who do you think storms beaches? Like who do you think that it is stoic men who do this? It's just like the lack of gratitude that humanity now has for the men who like created the world that we're in. And by the way, it's only going in one direction because once AI happens, then you're gonna see a bunch of people not like not working and it's it's that's I want to you know what I want to ask you more about that [\h__\h] in a minute. But I forgot to tell you we do a quick break in the in the podcast where my man Young Candlestick talks about the market update. All right, let's get into it. Yo, what up young candlestick man? What up? I'm gonna keep this quick because I love listening about social. I love this conversation. Really good stuff. And Michael, thank you for your service by the way. Much respect. Appreciate it, man. Thank you. Much respect to you. So, I'm just briefly going to go over the markets. I'll keep it quick. Markets are blistering to the upside. So the fear and greed index people are getting greedy in the stock market. So basically the market today was up about 66% but it's having a really strong rally and if we take a look at some of the other sectors like the IWM the Russell 2000 that's kind of lagging a little bit behind but now the semiconductors are starting to be strong. So yeah that's a that's a huge gap up right? Yeah. Yeah definitely gap up and push up near the highs. We had a great morning uh futures trading. So yeah, we got it in today. Risk on assets are starting to to move. So Bitcoin's staying strong pretty much close to all-time highs. So no red flags on the market. Besides that, it's just a bit overbought. You know, it's gotten a bit carried away short term, you know, from the lows. The S&P 500 is up about 22%. Okay. So where are the opportun where are the opportunities in the market? I really like silver. I'm bullish on silver at least just the price of the ETF SLV. This is starting to form a bullish flag. It would start to trigger if we start to, you know, break above SLV $31 per share. And if you're new, I am a chartered market technician. So, basically, I'm a professional when it comes to forecasting and analyzing stock prices. You just you just you just passed your series 65, right? Yeah, I passed the series. Come on, man. Let's go. Shout out to the homies. It's the hardest step to become an investment advisor. That's we're going to get a hedge fund launched. It's going to be cool. Come on, man. Let's go. Let's do it. All right. So, that's silver. That's kind of the opportunity. Ethereum as well is starting to really lead. Ethereum's gone on a nice tear from the lows. Ethereum's up 96%. It's still a lot of work to do, but it basically just means risk on assets are still going on. They're still going up. Um, last time on the Victory Talk podcast, I said look for Uber longs or buying Uber stock. Yeah, you said you said it. Go watch the tape. He said Uber longs. Check it out. I mean, and by the way, none of this is financial advice. This is just all for educational purposes only. But I'm just telling you that I'm buying Uber on this breakout. So Uber price target upgrade by Goldman Sachs. 110 per share is Goldman Sachs price target. So Uber still has some some space to rise. If it were to pull back to prior all-time highs, that could be a support level. Okay. Another one that both Brandon and I have been pushing or kind of talking about, Axon. And yo, I've been talking about Tell them when I tell them what I told him about Axon. Oh, man. You called out Axon back when it was $326 per share. [\h__\h] right. I know, right? Let's go. This is a good This is a good investment. This is a good stock. Up $121%. Axon, I'm still bullish as long as it holds the prior all-time highs. call it about 710. So, Axon Victory Trades members are making money from that. Tesla, I gave a bullish breakout idea on Tesla. Ever since we started to break above 295, I gave a price target of 330. We're at that price target right now. And Tesla's still pushing up. So, Tesla remaining neutral bullish at least in the short term. Longer term, I am bullish Tesla. It just carries a lot of risk for the year of 2025 and early 2026. I'm not bullish Tesla. Cool. I'm definitely not unless they until they come out with the sex robot. I'm not I'm not [\h__\h] bullish Texas Tesla because I the marketing right like it was mostly liberals I knew draw driving Teslas right and and and Elon has switched sides. So honestly man soon as he he gave his heart to him I put a short on Tesla right not not not for no political reasons yo whatever. And I just like, oh, this is a conflict with his his the market base, right? Conservatives I know, they ain't driving [\h__\h] Teslas. They driving, listen, the most conservative people I know, I got a lot I live in Florida, you know what I'm saying? I'm rich, so I got a lot of conservative friends, right? And uh their ideal car is like a monster truck, maybe a tank, not a [\h__\h] Tesla. The one dude, my one friend who has a Tesla is a vegan. You know what I'm saying? And uh so I just felt like when when he when he went right and then when he appeared to go ALT-right listen you go sports. I've never given anybody anything like that. You know what I'm saying? And so I was like oh man that might have just been the tism. So yeah. Yeah definitely. I think so. Um the other thing is with um with Tesla is they machine their own parts and uh initially when I saw that um because they have a lot of vertical integration in Tesla. One of the cool things is they're actually able to manufacture a lot of their parts in the United States that a lot of other other countries couldn't. So, the tariff thing wasn't going to affect them. It not not to the extent it would for other car companies. The other thing that Tesla did uh is that the patents for their electric uh drivetrains, they actually made those public because Elon Musk's idea was to get all these cars to to become electric. So now, you're right, instead of a Tesla, I can go get a BMW electric car and I don't have the same political backlash from it. So, yeah, you're right. I can get a Hummer, you know, and so because of that, you know, it kind of uh But I mean, I don't think he was going to be broke anytime soon, but Oh, no. I think he'll he'll be fine, right? I just I don't know. I just think it's I don't think liberals are going to be buying it. And conservatives I never met a conservative who who was who who wanted a Tesla. You want You got a lot of conservative friends. Conserv Not too many that have a Tesla. No. Yeah. I don't I I just think it's a the branding is off from now. You know what I'm saying? So, I just think from a marketing perspective, they have some challenges. Yeah. I I I play paintball on Sundays at Dan Bolzerian's house and if you uh if you show up in a Tesla, they will just roast you for Yeah. Perfect. Perfect example. Perfect example. That's why like I just think there's a market mismatch. Yeah. You say Anyway, go ahead, Greg. He's gonna have to come out with the sex robots, especially if the women are only picking the top 10 to 20%. You know, listen, man. If he comes out to sex robots, I'm buying I'm buying leap call auction that day. I'm buying leaps a hundred $100 out of the money. I'm saying straight up. I mean, that's a it's a viable business model if it can come out if you can figure it out, man. All right. Yo, I let me about gold, man. We've been talking about gold. It's been a rocky ride. I I made a lot of money off gold, but where where you at with it? Yeah, I'm still of that base case. The last time we talked about gold, I said it prolidates in a wide range. We've done exactly that. I expect gold to probably just go sideways for a few months. I think the real opportunity is in silver. That's just kind of my take on precious metals. Cash flow it if you can. If you want to write covered calls, do something like that. Sell cash secured puts. Let me show you. I may not do it again, but like every time gold hit if you look at let's if you look at the uh on the futures, every time it hit like 3,000 3,200. Yeah, around that range, I would just buy gold contracts and uh you can see it did well. You know what I'm saying? Like every time I don't know if I'm gonna keep drawing from that well though. Yeah, you came and less the move. you know, you keep doing but I I mean that that worked out well for me. All right. Um All right. Cool. You got anything else, Greg? I want to get back to the conversation. All right, brother. Yo, listen guys, if you guys want to learn more about this, hit up us on on our our Discord, Victory Unit Discord. All right. Um I got other free courses in there and [\h__\h] and me and Greg be giving advice and Greg giving free tips in there. Now, if you want to trade with Greg and I, right, you can you hit up Greg in the Discord. Say you want to join Victory Trades. All right, you going to get Greg's trade alerts. I made a lot of money with them, right? Greg's trade alerts link in the description. I'm I'm sorry. Just hit up Greg and say you want to join Victory Trades and then you get Greg's trade alerts and you can trade with us at the market open. I trade futures and Greg trades anything. You know what I'm saying? And uh we have a lot of fun. It's a good way to start the day, man. Making some money. All right, so a blast. We had a blast on Monday. On Monday, I had my biggest futures profit day. It was You made like four grand, right? On one trade. Good [\h__\h] for you, man. On one trade, you made 4K. 4.3K. Yep. Hey, man. I love it, brother. That's what's up, man. Awesome. All right, y'all. Um All right, y So, thank you, Greg. All right, Mike, let's get back to it, man. Let Let me ask you a question. So, you talked about all the things that men are up against, especially in the dating. What are like three things a man can do to improve his not only his life but his sexual market value? Yeah. Uh number one is the network like we talked about before like so networks give you access. Networks give you and again so it's one of these things that you you know being on the other end of it. I I I know that in every city there's parties with beautiful women that you as a man are not invited to because you have a penis and they don't need you there. They don't want you there. They don't want they ser seriously don't want you there. And at those parties, it's like four girls for every guy. There's there's these places that are awesome that are going on that you're not invited to because your network doesn't trust you and people don't see any value in you. So, one of the first things I tell guys, um and it's it's really cruel. A lot of people don't like hearing this, but your value to society, not your family, but your value to society is based on your utility. The more problems you solve, and you'll notice like when I'm when I go out with you or if I go out with Wes or if I go out with uh uh Justin Waller, or if I go out with some of you guys, our conversations, we're always solving problems. What do I do with my sales team? How do I run these ads? We're always solving problems for one another. And we build value in one another's eyes because of that. That's how we became wealthy is because we we solve problems. So the first thing I'm going to say is have an incredible network and that network with those guys that you meet that are you consider to be high status or if you want to be a mentor for figure out how to solve problems for them and sometimes problems they didn't even know they had. Don't ask them what problems they need solved either. That that's the hard part because now you're creating another problem for them. The best thing to do is just to figure out ways to solve problems for those people and you'll be if all you did was solve problems for other people and ask for nothing in return. You'd be shy. Dan Fleman is probably the best example of this. You'd have just infinite access to anything you wanted. Right. Second thing I will say is um you need to figure out a way to at least show perceived status on social media. I don't need I just need you to not I need you for your social media to not disqualify you. Okay. Yeah. You don't you don't have to be [\h__\h] Tate or [\h__\h] Brazarian. So So what we have is uh there's pre-selection photos, which is the ones with the girls. You don't have to post those. Some some of my clients do. Uh then there's candid photos of you just doing cool stuff with your friends. And the trick is having a buddy and he takes candid photos of you and you take candid photos of him and we teach you how to do this step by step in the course. And then the third part I don't want to skip over that because that's like marketing, right? Marketing your image, you know, and and social media is not just Well, I hate when people say I don't do social media. No, it's like it's it would be like in the 80s not having a business card or like you know if you're a billionaire, if you won an Academy Award, you won an NBA championship, you don't need you don't need social media. For the rest of you, if you're a man, the idea that you're going to go out and date attractive women, again, I'm not talk if you are sitting there with the huracan and you make like a million a year, a million a month, and you live in Miami, you're right. You probably can by word of mouth just bang super hot chicks that you meet on seeking arrangement. I am not telling you that you can't. I'm talking about for the other 99% of men. My boy started social kicking rage. One of my friends. Yeah, I'll tell you about that later. But but the average guy in the United States is 5'9 and women say that's not what they prefer. And the average guy in the United States makes $59,000 a year. And women really don't prefer that. And and uh you know the average guy in the United States is overweight and women really don't prefer that either. And so when you see those things, it's like how does that guy get the access to a girl who's outside how who's out of his league? Go back to the study I said before. Having them, putting them in the friend zone, having them see your attractive qualities for a number of months. She doesn't friend-zone you. You're not her gay friend. Yeah. You're not You You still have boundaries. My home girls will tell me stories and I'll be like, "Ah, that was pretty [\h__\h] stupid. You should have broken up with that guy." I talk to them like they're a dude, but we're friends and I do that and like you said, nine months there's no correlation. You can be ugly and date a super hot girl. This the data is clear on this. And so you see those concepts. So the first one I said was networking. Uh, the second one is having social media. Like you guys don't know, some of you guys are out there. Mo, 90 99% of you watching this, your social media is garbage. If you're a man and if you had one awesome photo of you with some girls on a red carpet smiling, having a great time where they're happy to see you, that photo is worth 20 grand to you. You don't realize it is, but it's worth 20 more than that. 30 grand to you cuz you don't realize having one photo where girls are like, "Oh, other girls like being around this guy." Oh, okay. I am going to open his messages when I talk to him. Oh, okay. Yeah, I'm not going to put them in the request folder. And the problem is the thing about social media, it's it's not everything, but it's so little effort for such a massive return. You have to do it. I know this girl, man, uh I was cool with her. Like I hired some of her she trained sales people to check out Shelby, right? She she trained sales people. We hired some of her girls to do some stuff and uh she had posted on Instagram that my my perfect guy doesn't even have social media. She posted this, right? That she just got a boyfriend. This dude got two million followers. It's always like that. It's like she's saying, "But guys, like please." Rule number one in Men of Action is stop listening to the words and just pay attention to people's actions. Women on social media complaining about they don't want to date men who are on social media. Where are they complaining on social media? Stop listening to the words. Stop. Even if they meant it, listen. Even like that's why like when when I be fit and girls say, "I want this guy. I want this guy." And my tries to get them to lower like Brian My means that. But she's not lying. But it doesn't [\h__\h] matter. Yeah, it doesn't matter. You know, I I I have girls I know girls who said, "Oh, I don't usually date black guys, but they were with me." Long time ago, babe. You know what I'm saying? Like long time ago. And but it's like it doesn't who gives a [\h__\h] what they say cuz the right guy said does the right for the right guy. None of that [\h__\h] If you're attractive enough, you can get away with anything, right? My would date a black the right black girl. Yes, there we somewhere. My I think he's with his family this week. He's probably like, "How dare you?" That's pretty funny. You want You want Fresh to show up somewhere, just sprinkle in a bunch of white women, and then Fresh just He manifest. He He doesn't even travel. He just magic. Fresh just magically appears. Wait, you see all these big booty white women? What's going on? Fresh poof. He just He manifests. If you say it one more time, big booty white man. If we say it to me, he might just He might just show up like he'll come out the He might be here. Walter, what are you doing here? He might be here now. We said it so many times. We just don't see him cuz it's so dark, you know? We have to put the lights on. Oh my god. That's those the homies, man. I love them. The third thing is what we said before, having putting hundreds of women in the friend zone and then having those women. It it's it's so weird. It's like you just flow through these social interactions. When you have two beautiful women with you, you just flow through these interactions. You get invited to everyone. Everyone wants to know your name. Everyone tries to get your IG. Everyone gets your phone number. Just if you don't believe me, try it. Just try it one time. For me, um, when I was managing a strip club, I remember there was one day where one of the girls comes to me and goes, "Hey, we're all going to celebrate so- and so's birthday. We're going to go to Sixth Street in Austin and we're going to celebrate so and so's birthday." So, I go there and it's me and it's 20 girls and I'm the only guy there and my thought is, "Oh, damn. Other girls are going to see me and think one of these girls my girlfriend and not like me or oh my god, do I have to buy alcohol for all these girls?" Again, guys, I'm 21. I don't know any better. Of course, what happens? I walk. They don't even check my ID when I walk in the club. Mhm. Okay. They don't charge the girls for anything cuz I'm with 20 hot girls and women are coming up to me literally just like almost groping me like who is this dude with 20 girls. I didn't understand mate choice copying in humans but like that. I didn't know that's what it was called back then. I just thought we just called it pre-selection back then. You know what's funny, man? You know, I met uh the late uh Kevin Samuels. I became cool with him. But when I first met him, I remember I was at Mastros, right? And I was at Mastros with like two girls, right? And I and I we were sitting at a table outside and then I had to go to the front for something and I saw Kevin. I was like, "Oh, you know what?" And he was like, he didn't know who I was, right? That's fine. And uh he was kind of like trying to be like be cool. He didn't want to be like, "It's all good." You know what I'm saying? And I I was I was calm. And then and then I all right, that was cool. That was whatever, you know? And then I went back and I was I was sitting I was eating with two girls, right? And then Kevin was sitting next to him. He was by he was by himself, maybe. I don't know if he it was it was pretty early, right? So I mean, he probably had something else going on, right? He was by himself. They didn't know me. He comes over and starts talking. It's always like that. And that's how I became friends. It's always like that. He didn't He didn't even know who I was until like way later. You know what I'm saying? But that's But it's funny. I was cuz I was with two girl when it was just me. He didn't even want to get to know me. I I can tell you so many of my friends right now who are either extremely successful, wealthy, or whatever. I met them because they saw me with a group of girls and I introduced them to the girls and I was just chill about it. Whatever. And then also the other thing that's kind of so we were talking about money you know before um the the issue with money is this using money to create a funnel to bring beautiful women in your life is the correct way to do it. Using money because as a crutch because you don't know how to generate attraction is the wrong way to do it. So creating a funnel meaning like I have uh a mansion in mid beach and I have parties every week. We have brunch and then we invite a bunch of girls and everyone has to dress in white and we have it and it's catered and I'm not directly giving the girls the money but women want to be seen at my house. I am going to be surrounded by women. So using money as a funnel to bring beautiful women into my life that's okay. Using money as a crutch, buying a girl a bag who I'm on going on the first date with. That's insanity. But men are doing this all the time and I know cuz women are telling me this, right? I had a girl come over to my house the other day. She's on she's on u what's that app? Sex panther. It's kind of like Only Fans or whatever. And they but they charge by the minute. Sex panther. They charge by the minute. So she's on there and like we're watching uh what the Last of Us or some show. She goes, "Oh, I got to take this call." Goes up, takes the call, comes back. She I just made $3500. Like the guy just like just wanted to talk to me for a long time. And I was like, "What the [\h__\h] That's crazy." Anything that you can think as far as depraved rich men, women are getting this, which is inflating their egos to what they can get, and it's just ruining for everyone else. So my advice is to not play that game for most guys. Again, if you can play the game, if you have the Bugatti and then 10 Ferraris and and you have the $400 million house, for sure, go for it. But for the rest of you, I would not recommend getting into that game. Instead, the game I would get into is pre-selection and social proof. Having women tell other women that you are an attractive man or being like, you know, um again, I have two female friends. Like, they they're like incredible. I call them my sergeants. They know exactly what to say to girls to get them interested in me because they're both like married or they're in relationships and they're just trying to help me. It's one of the craziest things I've ever seen is when you have a woman who can do that, how amazing that is for for uplifting your life and then also building your business. It's just incredible. The guests I get on my show a lot of times is because a woman introduced me. I'm the I'm the I am the host of Swimsuit USA's World Championship because a woman who won the thing recommended me to get that job. I have a bunch of job. I work at um uh part-time as a u a trader. I'm a quant for a small fund. Okay. Yeah. So I I do only short stock option selling and um the reason I got that job was because of a woman named Karen Brutin who taught me how to trade stock options. Right. So it's like it was connections that happened because women would introduce me to other women or would introduce me to men. And so it's just one of the biggest cheat codes. But the problem is you as a man if you've been hurt by women you have to get over that initial yeah wait they're subhuman I don't [\h__\h] all these 304s blah blah whatever I don't need friends let me say something 304s are a great way to [\h__\h] network that's a fact don't date them you need to be friends with more hoes don't date them I'm not telling you to date them not telling you to marry them threesome with your girlfriend maybe but like don't have them on your show absolutely but do but be friends with them, bro. Every almost every billionaire I've met, it's been some model who introduced me. It's almost always that way. So, that's the thing. It's kind of hard for guys to grasp. And then there's a great book um she's a professor of sociology at Boston University. Her name's Ashley Mirs. Really great. She the woman has a PhD and she was a runway model. And so, she went undercover as a bottle rat for two years and just basically described the whole models and bottles scene from her perspective as a woman being a PhD in psychology. And one of the things she talked about was in the Hamptons. This is some incredible wealth that you have in the Hamptons, right? The only way guys could get into every party in the Hamptons was what do you think? Uh having girls having girls with them. Yeah. So you incredible networking opportunities were to be had because you had girls. You couldn't buy your way into these these parties. You had to have girls with you. And so like that's the thing I I just keep trying to explain to guys, but it's so antithetical to modern matchmaking, pickup uh advice, just typical dating advice, whatever. Can most guys be friends with most women? No. Most men cannot be friends with my female friends because they're too attracted. If you did a 15-month deployment in Afghanistan, you can't be friends with women. If you were in jail for 10 years and you get out, first woman you see, you can't be friends with them. But if you have some level of sexual abundance, you're sleeping with women on a regular disconnect. Super easy. Like, so it sounds like you're saying the guys who say who say don't be friends with girls, they're guys who don't really get [\h__\h] Is that what I'm hearing? But if you get it, also here's the other thing. You're you're in my we're in our 40s. Our standards have probably gone up. What you find is physically attractive for me. Dude, when I was in college, 18 or to 80, blind, [\h__\h] or crazy. I didn't care. 80 or 280, as Justin Waller says. I Dude, I was in college. I didn't care. I was just like, "Wow, sex is incredible. Oh my god, you're I was in a sexual deficit, right?" That's how it was in my 20s, in my 40s. I'm super picky. So, because I'm picky, most women are not that attractive to me. very easy to be friends with women you're not attracted to. In fact, I would recommend if you find a woman you're not attracted to, that's a great person to put in the friend zone. That's terrific. And if you find a woman that you are attracted to and she's married, maybe you're just they're in the same social circle and you don't want to screw that up. That's another great girl to be attracted to. But not to try to [\h__\h] her. See, I think what guys [\h__\h] it up is that when they they do that weird [\h__\h] where they're trying to [\h__\h] their friends. Yeah. You get a friend zone. Don't try to [\h__\h] your friends like a [\h__\h] weirdo. like actually have girlfriends and [\h__\h] their friends or like other women they helping you introduced to. You know what I'm saying? Like but it's always it's always the same thing. I'll meet a girl and clear like she let's say she has a boyfriend but she's a perfect 10 in my eyes. I'll meet I'll complete show her no sexual intent whatsoever. I'll invite her to all my events. I'll meet her friends. She'll have me over for parties. We'll do card night, whatever. We do friend stuff and and she'll have a hot female friend, a roommate, whatever. And I'll end up sleeping with her. I end up sleeping with the other one almost every time. the first because because she's had that experience because she's watching she consider I get it from her standpoint it's like there's this guy who other women find attractive we don't fight there's no drama there's nothing and I just keep watching all these other women want to sleep with him laugh around him whatever she can't this is the part guys don't understand attraction isn't a choice if a woman keeps seeing you in attractive situations one after another if she just keeps seeing beautiful women attracted to you she's going to become attracted to you and she can't help it. That is so it's so hard for for so first of women don't even admit that this is true but they but it is true and men it's so hard for us to grasp this concept. What I'm telling you is that if you had a ton of female friends and they were competing for your attention. There's no game. They can't help but become attracted to you. It's evolutionarily programmed and that's what makes it so difficult. And I'm the only person since ' 08 who's been teaching. There's a couple guys now who are teaching it like a couple social circle coaches but but before me there was nobody. It was just you. It was you and um the other dude, you know what I'm saying? You know, you know what I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. And uh I I remember that. Um and it was I was like, "Yeah." I was like, "Fucking." Yeah. No one's saying this. I mean, if you ever if you ever, you know, talk to like a club promoter or forget a club promoter, like a male stripper, like some guy who's just a desk who's been with hundreds and hundreds hundreds of women. If you ask them, you're like, "So, every girl you get with is a sex worker. She's a slut." And they're like, "No." Yeah. It's like I get female accountants who've been with one guy their whole life. It's like wait. But I thought I thought because I thought because you're a man who slept with a bunch of women, you only get uh because of assortative mating and [\h__\h] uh socioexuality, you only get [\h__\h] women. No. Uh women are attracted to attractive men and men having high body counts does not make them less attractive. I know women will say that, but then but if they really say it, they mean they mean it when they say lying. It's just not true. It's just not. Yeah, it's just not. It really doesn't have that big of an effect. And again, Dr. David does Dr. David Bus from UT Austin, he does a 37 culture study and he asks men about their preferences for virginity or how many sexual partners and they ask women. And for women in like Scandinavian countries, a man who was a virgin at 25, she thought he was weird. Men who had high body counts in those Scandinavian countries were not seen as the slightest bit odd whatsoever. So that's the thing that that it just very difficult for for a lot of women to understand is like the difference between the two between men and women is is pretty stark. I've heard a girl say that a guy like that is like mid-30s or 40s who's not married or doesn't have any kids is weird. It is. And but they'll still sleep with him. That's what's crazy. Sometimes I've heard girls say but like oh wait a minute nobody wanted to sleep no one wanted to have kids. No one like they look at him like it's almost negative social proof if you're like our age sometimes if you never no of course it is it's the they use the term Peter Pan syndrome Peter Pan syndrome what it means is a man who doesn't want to grow up if you're a woman and you're dating a rich successful man and he doesn't want to settle with you then all a sudden he has Peter Pan syndrome so it's a coping mechanism yeah it's a coping mechanism it's just it's porative you're weaponizing words like like toxic masculinity you're weaponizing words to try to to to fit your narative I didn't even think about that as a coping mechanism. But just think about it like this, right? It's like I didn't grow up. It's like okay, hold on. If we were to get married, the percentage chance of us getting divorced in here, it's higher, but in national average, 56% chance of getting divorced. It's higher in Miami. It's probably Texas. Cities like this is always um 56% chance of divorce. Got it. 80% of divorces are initiated by women. Women. Yeah. So, you're telling me that you take me not allowing you to take half my [\h__\h] is me not growing up? That's my Peter Pan syndrome, bro. It is crazy to me. It's like, no, there is, for those of you guys who are out there watching this, there is someone in your family, some woman you know, or some beta male cuck, [\h__\h] female pander who's telling you that you are less of a man because you are not choosing to wife up some girl, single mom, whatever. And my point is to you, if you wanted to stay single, there's nothing wrong with that. You're not a bad person because you chose to keep your options. No matter what anyone in your no matter your fat aunt who's been divorced three times who's trying to give you dating advice at at Thanksgiving, no matter what they say, it is I'm here to tell you it's okay if you want to be single. It's also okay if you want to have kids. It's an incredible thing to have kids, but it's also okay if you want to have fine. whatever you want to do, regardless of what Chris GQ Perry tells you or any of those weirdos who's like, "You're not strong enough to date a mar a a woman who has a kid." I'm like, "What the [\h__\h] are you talking? You're not better than me because you're dating someone with a kid. That doesn't make you better. That's crazy that this narrative is being pushed out. When are men going to step up?" I'm like, "What? What if I don't want to do that?" And here's the other one. This is for This is for I don't I don't even have words for that. There's this is one for the ladies. If you have any female friends and they say stupid [\h__\h] like this, well, he he broke up with you because he's intimidated by your success. Oh, that's the worst. That's that's that's that's the f it's hilarious to me. It's like, [\h__\h] you you maybe you're just a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Like, you know, here's how here's how you say it. It's not that I'm intimidated by you. I don't For whatever reason, I don't like pickles. I don't know why. I just don't like pickles. I'm not intimidated by pickles. Yeah. I just It's a preference for me to not be with them. I'm not intimidated by you having a job. I'm I just I have a preference for not dating masculine women. That's all it is. It's a preference that I have. It doesn't mean that I'm intimidated. But the problem is this. It's obviously it goes back to the weaponization, right? The weaponization of these words like toxic toxic masculinity or Peter Pan syndrome. This this this problem has two issues to it. And that is it's destroying women as well. You're giving women terrible advice. No, you're too masculine and difficult to be in a relationship with. But your friend, instead of allowing you to improve yourself, has lied to you and told you that he left because he's intimidated. Yeah, you you were too much. You were just too much for him. Why do you d No, you are too much. But he's not intimidated. I outweigh you by a 100 pounds. I'm not intimidated by you, honey. That's not the issue. I don't care how much money you make. It's are you masculine? Do I really want to be Okay, let's say you make three times as much as me. Do I really want to be with a woman who works 80 hours a week? I want sex. I'm not going to be with someone who can't make time for me. That has nothing to do with me being intimidated. It's a preference. Have you seen this? Like the the like if you got successful female friends who are like making a lot of money. Yeah. That it's difficult for them to find. I I'm having dinner with a friend of mine uh tomorrow and she makes over half a million a year uh as a sales job and she's told me the exact same thing. It's like it's like because there's so few and it's not her fault and I love her and I'm not saying anything she's doing is wrong for her, but the situation is she's so beautiful and she's so makes so much money that from her standpoint it's like there's no guy that can really compete and then when she finds guys that can stand up to what she wants like they're either they have too many options. Here's the crazy part, right? So according to behavioral psychologists, what should happen or according to feminists, what should happen is that if women make more money than men, then this necessity for women to want to date rich men should vanish. Yeah. That's if you are a feminist, you believe that. Yeah. So they go to countries where women make more money than men. Norway, Sweden, Finland. They go to those countries and you know what those women want? Men who make even more money than them. Cuz only women are are only guys are stupid enough to date people with less [\h__\h] than or marry or marry only a guy is dumb enough to marry a chick with less [\h__\h] than a woman's not going to date a woman. But but my point is if a woman like Rihanna was making hundreds of millions a year dating a billionaire. It's like even when they had all their needs met, they still wanted men who made more money than them. So what does that tell you? It's not societal. It's genetic. Women's propensity to want to be with men who have resources is not something that was made up by a patriarchy. It's genetic. And here's the other thing. Here's the other problem with that. What that statement that I just said we talk about gender norms. Oh, you know the we need to get over these gender norms where men are masculine and tox they're toxically masculine and they're stoic all these problems and women should uh the gender norms of staying at home with the kids and nurturing all this stuff. These gender norms that are perpetrated by patriarchy. I'm like, wait a second. Who are women rewarding with sex? Exactly. Assertive, dominant, um, ambitious males. You're telling me if I am assertive and I'm dominant, I'm ambitious, that I get more sex. Well, then guess what my children are going to be? They're going to be assertive and they're going to be ambitious and they're going to be dominant males, competitive males. If you have one gender that is rewarded for being competitive and assertive, of course, you're going to have a patriarchy. But the patriarchy is not enforced by men. It's enforced by the desires of women and women hate this. If you wanted men to stop being narcissists, stop [\h__\h] narcissists. But you can't you can't you can't stop [\h__\h] them, can you? You can't you keep having sex with them and then you keep complaining about them. The every single attribute that you see in attractive men today is only perpetrated because women rewarded those attributes with sexual access. Period. It's inarguable. I want to ask you a question, but I want to get then I want to get into the super chats because we got some somebody threw up $200 on I get to in a minute. But hold on. Everything I agree with everything you're saying, but there's one thing that that's I've always wondered about and you it's always confusing me. The guy some of the guys some of the guys not the guys who get the most, but some of the guys who get the most [\h__\h] that I've ever that I've ever met was unemployed Dominicans in New York. Yes. like the like I don't know if they just got more time or but they got no job. Yes. I there's this one dude I I heard a story right where this dude he was working at like Zara or some [\h__\h] like that. Right. And he cheated on his girlfriend, used her car to cheat on another girl, you know what I'm saying? And and and she took him back, right? Like he was broke working at Zara. You know what I'm saying? But then like how does that work? Okay. So, so we remember in the ancestral period, meaning before the agricultural revolution, there's no money. No one has money. Money is just a corollary for competency. So, you could have other things besides if you're a big strong man, that's a resource that's like money. And to some women, because women find different things attractive. We as men tend to find the same things attractive. Facial symmetry, hip to waist ratio, we tend to find the same things attractive. Some women only care about money. Some women don't care about money at all. There are some women out there who only care about a man's looks, don't care about anything else. There's some women out there who will only date tall men, even if they're ugly. And there's some women out there who only date incredibly handsome men even if they're short. There's just women have a what's called negative curtosis and statistics. They have a wider range of things that they are attracted to. So, the reason why this guy is crushing it is because probably some level of physical attractiveness. But you want to know the other thing I almost guarantee you she heard from her friends that he [\h__\h] really good. Ah, that's what it is. She heard from her friends that this guy's good and bad. And by the way, real, this is a way out off topic here, but rule number six in MOA is no one needs to know how much money you make or who you're [\h__\h] or where you live. It's from 10 10 crack amendments by Biggie Smalls. They don't need to know where you stay at, right? No one needs to know your business. You don't need to qualify to anyone. You do not need to tell your boys you banged a 10. But if she brags to her friends that she banged you, oh my god. And when you've had that happen, one time my home girl um so I ended up hooking up with a a girl that I've been friends with for more than nine months. Exactly like the survey said. Probably the most attractive woman in my mind that I'd ever been with. Okay. We ended up hooking up and then um her best her roommate was one of my good friends and I didn't tell her roommate that I slept with her. Yeah. But she told her roommate I slept with her. Do you want to know what happened next? I know exactly what happened. You got it's like an Amazon review. Of course I and and I end up sleeping with a roommate. And that's obviously what happened next because because it didn't even matter that she said that I was good. It's that she's bragging about having sex with me. Do you understand what a paradigm flip that is? That's why you as men don't run your mouth. So here's the thing. When you if you want to be the dude who doesn't count, you you don't truly know women. You don't truly understand women until you're sitting at your place working or playing video games and some girls on a date and leaves the date, brings the leftover food to your place to have sex with you after some other guy paid for the date. When that happens, that's when you truly begin to understand or or you ever you ever had him come to you before they went on a date? Yes. Oh my god, that was wildest, bro. Oh, bro, I have some stories. Yeah, that's wild. It's like she's going to go meet her sugar daddy and comes over to your place first. Like you you don't truly understand. But here's the thing, like, and this is really hard for especially a lot of guys in Miami who use money as a crutch. Every single woman that you know that is having sex with a dude who is who's paying them. Could be a prostitute, could be a sugar daddy, whatever the reason is, every one of those women has another guy she's sleeping with who isn't paying her. And there is no exception to this. And she does not respect you more because you spend a bunch of money on her. There's no exception to this. And it's really hard for for guys to deal with that concept because they're like because if you think women only care about money, then all you need is money and then you should get a woman. And then when she leaves you, it's like, well, yeah, that's cuz only women care about money. But if you're a man who's actually generated genuine desire from a woman, you know that isn't true. But most men haven't gotten that. They haven't gotten that. And what they'll do is they'll see a woman who's attractive and they're like, "I'm going to offer you value, show you intent just because you have big boobs. There's no other reason." Well, in her mind, you look like a valueless loser. That's the thing. What I'm recommending is have a social circle. Have her see other women interact with you and just like offer her value. Be like, "Hey, man. Yeah, I'll help you out." There's one girl um I'm seeing now, I just helped her with her podcast. So, she met me with my girlfriend. I just helped her with her podcast. And then when me and my girlfriend broke up, then I started seeing her because all she saw was attractive qualities in me the whole time. And I never hit on her one single time. That's the trick. And guys don't understand that. But it flips the paradigm. Me having a beautiful girlfriend was testament to her, okay, there must be some good stuff going on with this guy. And I never bragged about any of it. And then when we had the opportunity, then the whole the whole the whole thing flipped. And so that's really hard for guys to grasp. And any guy can do this. It doesn't matter how short you are, how brown you are, or if you're from a small town, whatever. This is always is capable for everyone. And here's the other thing. Um, older guys, you and me, like like I'm almost 50, right? You're 40ome years old. 42. 42. Um and and when I don't see the women I date, I'm seeing a girl right now is one'S-23, one's 24, one's 28. The the they don't look at me like I'm 50. Cuz I'm in shape. The reason why women say they don't want older men sometimes is because older men in this country are fat. Choosing to keep yourself in shape. That's it. That's a big It makes a big deal difference, man. You can be Can you imagine like the amount you like in a like a a competition for women versus you when you were 22? Oh yeah. Today you'd kill that good dude because Well, I was I was really handsome when I was young. Like straight up. Like I I was like I was on Billboard. Yeah. You were male model. So I'd have some stiff competition, but my my resources Yeah. Right. Like even though I may not be in that category anymore, right? Like but it's like now it's like the other I get what you're saying. But but the 22-year-old me, I would be like I would I would completely outpace him because what I would do is I'd get the girl to talk about herself. I'd introduce her. I have a have a very strong rule. If I like a girl, I introduce her to a girl I'm sleeping with. And so I I Wait a minute. Say that again, man. If I like a girl, I introduce her to a girl I'm sleeping with. Come on, man. This [\h__\h] It works. It works. It's free. This is some of the best game like honestly that I' that I've heard in a long time. You know what I'm saying? I don't need it. Of course, but like this is some of the like you're saying is some of the [\h__\h] realest [\h__\h] that I've never heard people say and that like I agree with whole because we we just took the data from evolutionary psychology and sociological studies and then we compared it to men who actually had sex with women who actually had success with women, not guys who said they had success success with women, not pickup artists who were spinning girls around and picking them up and getting instant makeouts. That's not sex. That's not success with women. We so we found guys who actually had success with women and we compared that to what the sociological data was giving us and then came out with a framework that is bulletproof. That's that's essentially where we came. Awesome. And you know I want to get into super chats in a minute but where can they find out more about you? Uh go to mammentoring.com. Yeah. You can go there uh and you can see uh that they'll we can sign up for like a free audit that we do of your social media and and we go through a bunch of stuff like that. I also have a group on school uh the mo men of action forum. If you guys want to join it's $5 a month. Uh you guys can join it. We have free calls that we do in there. That's dope. So, let's get into some of these super chats. They've been stacking up, man. We have Jason. What do you think about this high carb, lowfat diet to get shredded that Mark Belt been doing? I've just started anti keto feels good. Okay, that's what's up. Oh, that was for me. And shout he gave a $200, man. Shout out to the homie. Um, everything works, bro. Everything works. Like You know, there's a lot of people got got um what is he doing? High carb, lowfat. Yeah, a lot of people have got in great shape with that, right? I I prefer something different, right? But it doesn't mean one's better, the worst. It's like what's you got to find what's best for you, right? So, they they'll both anything will work, man. You know, like um you know, 5 + 1 is six, but you know, 3 time two is six, too. You know, like however you get however you get there, you get there. There's infinite ways to get to the number six, you know, and it's different. The same with diet. You just got to pick the one you like the most. Whatever you can stick to and do consistently is uh is going to be most advantageous for you. We have Leo. Question for Michael. Yo, Michael, big respect to you. What do you think will happen to the dating market in the next 10 years? AI bots coming? Will there be a point where only a few of us can tell who's real? Yo, shout out to Leo. He he he's on every week. Always big supporter. So So this is a really interesting dichotomy. So I want you to think about this. You know, uh President Trump talked about getting rid of taxes on tips. Okay. So taxes on tips, you would get rid of that, which is going to benefit a lot of cocktail servers and a lot of strippers, right? Yeah. Yeah. And then these only fan content creators, right? So you as a woman, there's only so many people you can message back. There's only so much work you can do and you only have your own images. But if I'm an AI content creator, and by the way, here's the craziest part. If I have girl A and I use her face for my AI, I have to pay her, right? That's she's copyright infringement. If I have girl B, then I have to pay her. But if I take an amalgamation of girl A and B, I don't have to pay either one of them. Uh oh. Now, let's say I I'm a guy and I've got code and I' I have a thousand AI influencers and then let's just say that the technology gets good enough to where people either don't know it's AI or don't care. What happens is my scalability as an AI content creator is 1 millionx what the average girl is. The girls at the top on OF they're probably gonna still hold their position, but but what's going to happen is every girl that's below the AI influencer, the replacement level girl is going to be kicked out of the Only Fans market. I know a dude who's Yeah. He's got Oh, it's Miami full of them. I AI girls and then he's running like with he's he's got AI girls and he knows AI and he's making money, right? like selling their Only Fans to these AI girls that he's made and then then he has like a bunch of Filipinos talking to the to the guys Filipinos the account managers. So he's got like a bunch of AI girls making money for him. So here's here's the thing that happens. What my prediction is is when these when we get to a replacement level AI avatar where we care more about that where the average customer cares more about that than like a real girl, strip clubs are going to be flooded with girls. Girls coming back cuz after after co they were just empty. They're like there's nowhere near as many attractive women at strip clubs now as there used to be all across the country. And same thing you saw Hooters is not. Oh yeah. Me and my girl we went to Spear Rhino and and she was like I'm not really Yes. Hooters just filed for bankruptcy. This is another reason. You know what you're going to see is women just flooding back into Twin Peaks Hooters. cuz you're going to see him going back into bottle service, you know, and then eventually elevate to real estate agent. Real estate. If you have sex with enough dudes, eventually you go real estate agent and then woman of God and you finally Yeah, that the Britney Rener track. Eventually, you become Muslim or a woman of God. That's eventually how it ends. That that's how it works. You know what I'm saying? Real estate. Yeah. Yeah. The real estate agent is so funny, man. But what you're going to see though is the AI influencer is going to push so many women out of these spaces uh that you're going to see a lot of like what I would expect is a lot of these jobs where like strip clubs I think are going to be full of girls here pretty soon. Uh cuz people who want to and and then there's probably be a market like some guys who would rather talk talk to a real girl a real person. We're gonna get to a point where you won't know. It'll be indistinguishable through your phone. Yeah. Well, I mean, the way it is right now, you you you fellas, all of you who are paying girls on OF to talk to them, 100% of you are talking to Filipino men. 100%. Cuz my boy runs an agency and I You're not talking to any girls. You're talking to only Filipino Filipino Indonesian as hell, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Cuz I invested in my boy's agency. So, like I Yeah. So, I mean, that's that's what we expect to see in the future. And the other part of the dating, and I've said this before and I get crucified by some people, but it's true. When AI, when you have start having androids, like these robots that are going to be good enough, not not me and not our children. I think my son, your son, we would ne our kids would not do this, but like say our great grandkids, they're going to grow up with the AI robot that is so the android that is so realistic that she's actually prettier and more obedient than whatever. She gives her less drama than the average woman. And you're going to see guys become addicted to that. That's going to become the norm. You're going to see droves of men [\h__\h] robots in like the next 50 years. Have a whole herum of robots. Well, I mean, but just think about it. You if you were 16 years old and you had some weird uncle come bring you four sex robots that like could look any way you wanted, you would have no interest in real women. There are men right now taking themselves out of the dating market watching pornography. You don't think that sex robots wouldn't do the same thing? I share with you, man. I I made a whole I made a video. Didn't we make a video about it? Like Yeah, it's inevitable what's going to happen. And then when that happens, here's the crazy part. There's going to be a few guys out there is like, I want some real women. And it's the tables are going to turn. It's going to be like one dude who actually wants to talk to women and then a bunch of women like, "Oh my god, a real penis. Oh my god, let's they're going to be chasing objectifying this man because it be like one or two dudes, super high testosterone dudes who actually want to have sex with real women." Uh I think I think it may be sooner than Well, you you you I mean the way the way AI works. Yeah. It could be five years. Yeah, like I'm telling you in the next 50 years, I guarantee you that we're going to see this. It's definitely something we're going to see. And so, you're going to see this massive bifurcation. Also, there's another thing that's crazy. You're going to be uh there's new DNA research where they're going to be able to create babies out of alals of people who are the same sex. So, you're going to see women having children with other women. Look it up. Ray Kerszwall just wrote a book about this. The singularity is near. He talks about this concept. And what you're going to have is women who don't need men to have kids. Jurassic Park. Exactly. Women who don't need men to have kids and men who are having sex with robots. population destroyed. Oh, that's that will this true bifurcation of the two genders is going to be I think how this whole thing ends. But until then, if you wanted to date hot girls, make female friends. Until then, sorry. En enjoy the decline. What else we got? Yeah, we have Nav. How do you build a strong social circle when you grinding a lot? This is great. So uh the the a couple things I would tell you um in the course we go over this very specifically. So in the course well like you want to educate yourself. I know this is a little bit different from networking. You see all these books. I would have audio books and I'd be listening to the audio books double speed whenever I'm in the car whenever I'm in the gym or whenever I'm eating. You gave it I saw your Instagram you gave that tip to do that. And you know I I I was telling people like my sales team we talk about sales. Well every time I I would tell my sales team this is what you do. This is what I did when I I needed to make a bunch of money to pay some back taxes and I needed to make a bunch of money fast and I I was doing sales and I would I got two pair of water proof headphones. This is like I this might have been 2017. Yeah. Right. And I got two pair of waterproof head headphones, right? And I would listen to sales [\h__\h] all the time, ebooks, trainings. Yes. And if I wasn't talking to another person either on a sales call or talking to the uh one of my friends or I would be listening to sales train the reason it was waterproof cuz it was in the shower too. Yes. You know what I'm saying? In the shower. Yeah. I do that too all the time. And and and and I I was doing it on just the one subject and I called it the total emergence strategy and man it seemed like I did it with just with sales and like the game slowed down, right? Have some of your sales people do it total emerging. And I met some people like this happened like baby how this happened like twice, right? Some guy some I'm a sales guy did uh total emergency strategy. I made over 100 grand. I had my first 100 grand month. You know what I'm saying? They they stopped me in the street. But you're saying doing it on all subjects. Okay. So So now you're doing that cuz So the question he's asking me is how do I build a social circle while I'm grinding? I'm helping you grind right now. The greatest book, Buy Back Your Time by Dan Martell. I'm probably going to I'm going to have him on my show at some point. You know him? Yeah. I messaged him a couple times. So, so Dan Martell, great just life-changing book. Now, I start paying people to remove parts of my life that are not bringing me energy and that I'm I'm I'm waged out of. I I actually make too much per hour to be doing to take my dry cleaning, whatever it is, video editing. So, you you do these things, right? And then The One Thing by Gary Keller, one of the greatest books I've ever read, right? It teaches you. It's really good, bro. I I did made a whole video about that. Yeah. An unbelievable book. So, One Thing by Gary Keller, Buy Back Your Time by Dan Martell, right? And then also listening to audio books. Now, what happens is your grind becomes more condensed. I also recommend a few other things. U I recommend instead of going to some gym that's far away, go to a gym in your building. Go move it to a high-rise that has an incredible gym. Way saves so much time. I do that, man. I don't even go I like I have a bunch of gym memberships and I I almost never go to the gym cuz the gym in this building is so dope. Yeah, same thing. Panorama in in Vegas is the same thing. That's like incredible gym. So that that's the thing is so what what I do is make your grind more efficient. Now what happens is the networking thing, the social circle thing you're doing is now in what you're doing is investing in your ability to make more money, right? It's your uh was it Pena? Dan Pñena I think is his name. He talked about every one of you is just 10,000 handshakes away from becoming a multi-millionaire. So it's like more shake more hands. This is what real estate agents understand this. So it's like what you're thinking is I'm on my grind and how do I do that and build a social circle? No, this is part of your grind. The social circle is part of the grind. It's the part that exponentially grows your money making ability by having the network to do those things, right? Does it make sense? And when you get good enough, then you get like like in my situation, some people are paying to go to the the Tai Lopez mastermind. I'm speaking at the Tai Lopez mastermind, right? If you we you and me went to the 10X conference, they'd be buying tickets. You and I would be backstage at the 10X conference. Yeah. Yeah. Jared, I remember once when they did it at the stadium, Grant Cardinal's got Jared. He just hit me up say, "You want you want some tickets? I got the free VIP tickets. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's the that's the difference is that you now the people the mentors that can give you the most information that can make you millions of dollars just over dinner. Like, if you ever had like with really smart people, if you go to dinner, they're all paying, they're all racing with each other to pay the bill. And they're just having casual conversations about things that can fix your sales team, can fix your SEO. These guys are geniuses. And you hang out with these guys and then you learn a ton. Well, how do you do that? It's through networking. So now, while you're paying a hundred grand a year for this mentoring, I'm getting it for free because I built a social circle versus people that are full of people that are more successful than I am. How did I do that? Once again, I had a ton of female friends who introduced me to these dudes. Man, I'm telling you, it's a cheat code. Female friends cheat. Even if even it doesn't matter what you trying to if you're trying to make more uh you're trying to network, it's help it's helped me with that. Like all my female friends, I introduce them to to guys, you know, maybe some happens, maybe some doesn't, right? But it's it it helps with the with the the networking for sure. Yeah, the networking is so incredible and it just the exponential way in which you can grow your business or maybe you acquire someone else's business or maybe you're like looking for a a competent CEO to take away some of the tasks that you have in your business. Yeah. The only way to really do that, it is not through LinkedIn. It's it's it's not through Fiverr. It's through the networks that you have and the word of mouth that you have. So the the the thing the I would reframe the question that he asked. Number one, become more efficient on your grind. And number two, understand social circle is part of the grind. Yeah, I like that. What what else we got? We got to kind of race through these next three. We have RS. Michael, have you found a Latina wife in Miami yet? Have you Have you found a Latina wife? Uh uh Russian. Uh no, there's no I don't have AI don't have a wife here, but uh there's a Yeah, I don't know. I like Latina girls. I just like I just like them the same as everyone else. But one thing, you have a lot of them here in Miami. Yeah. I've only I landed at 7:00 a.m. and it's like I've been here. So give me a bait tomorrow afternoon. Maybe I'll have a a Latina wife. She's out there looking for you. And remember, if you like a girl, you introduce her to a girl you're sleeping. That's the trick. 100% man. What else we got? We have Harden BBC. Is your influencer mentorship still available? Yeah, Nean, do you have a link for that for him? It's I did put the web uh just Yeah, you know. Yeah, you influencer domination accelerator. You you can you can learn you can join that for sure. All right, what else we got? And last one we have Navagan says, Myron says female friends are useless. Yeah. You know, listen, my a friend of mine who says a lot of things I don't agree with. And you know, I don't have to agree with everyone everything one of my friends says to uh to be friends with him. That's too high criteria too high of a criteria for friendship, you know. Yeah. So So what what what Myron is talking about is like I have he doesn't see a mentor that he would have that's female that would be useful to him. Yeah. I work in animal rescue, so I there's a lot of females that are actually very useful in helping me with that. But um the the the thing is uh what when he's talking about this is what most guys consider a female friendship is like your dick is still hard for her. You still want to have sex with her. You still covet her body, but at the same time you're pretending to be her friend. In that case, what my saying is absolutely true. And not only is are they useless, they're actually hurting your status with other women. What I'm telling you before, and by the way, just just be clear, I go on Fresh and Fit all the time. I'm I'm going on tomorrow probably 17th time I've been on. And uh I will tell you there's a bunch of girls that are on the show who when they have to kick the girls out, those are the girls who are kicking the girls out. And Myron's never putting his hands on the girls. It's never doing that. Those girls, I promise you, regardless of what Myron Fresh, any of those guys say, if some dude put their hands on like Icy, she used to, you know, Icy, she's one of the girls who does recruiting. If some dude put their hands on Icy, we would beat the [\h__\h] out of that dude. That's a friend. Regardless of what you want to call it, that's that girl is the homie. She's on our side. We're at her birthday party. If she died, we'd go to her funeral and we'd give her a present for her [\h__\h] if she had a baby. If you don't call that a friend, that is a that is a friend. It's not what you guys think, but like the guys who you think don't have any female friends, they do have female friends. It's just what what the way Rich Cooper talks about it is that these are acquaintances or they're associates. That's the word they use because a lot of people don't like the idea of female friend because they want to reserve friend for like their male friend. But for me, because like there's no way I host the three biggest bikini competitions in the world. The one at Wet Republic, what's which is now called Palm Tree, the one for Swimsuit USA, and the one for Paradise Challenge. I host the three biggest in the world. If you think it is possible for me to recruit 400 girls of bikini competition without having female friends, you are deluded or [\h__\h] There's no I don't understand how you understand that. In some instances, yes, I I can understand how having female friends would be less than optimal, but I all but in a lot of instances, they can be helpful. And when it comes to meeting women, they're the ultimate cheat code. Yeah. Some people uh don't like Tate saying Tate's the homie. I've known Tate since before he was famous, man. Like and he was saying, "Yeah, you can't female friends. She's not ready to fight." And I get that, right? But it's like I got male friends who ain't ready to fight. You know what I'm saying? Like, and it's still useful, right? They might like I know this guy, he he knows all about AI. He's a really useful friend, but like that's not the guy I want to go to fight a war with. But here's the difference. I'll bet you Andrew has met an incredibly successful dude through a female at some point in his life. He just doesn't consider her a friend. I would consider that a friend. That's the only difference. It's just the words we're using. It's just different semantics. Different semantics. That's all it is. And the thing that I found is it's just like my life is so I just love my my birthday. If you guys want don't believe me, I show up every year to some tow group property. Shout out to Jason Strauss tow group. I show up to some group property every year for my birthday with 50 girls. No dudes. I don't even tell dudes that I'm having a birthday party. And then I message the a bunch of guys. I'm like, "All right, you guys can come at 1:00 in the morning and they can come to my table and I've got 50 girls with me." Yeah. When I do that for the rest of the year, anything I want to do, I can get into that. People are offering me tickets to [\h__\h] I don't have to pay for anything. Everyone wants to come on my podcast. Like, it's crazy the networking you can do just from understanding this one concept. And it's very easy to do when you step one fix your social media, step two build a list, step three get a bunch of open threads, and step four have six female friends that you go to an event with. And it's like, you know, and if Yeah, man. Anybody can do this, man. Anybody. And and specifically, if you are a less than attractive man, this is the best bet for you. It's the best bet. It is the If you are an older man and you want to date younger women, this is the best bet for you. And one other thing, there's no drugs or alcohol. So, I've never been drunk in my entire life. I've never tried any drugs. Uh, one of the things that we get a lot of questions like, "Oh, this is just a bunch of partying." I'm like, I've never been drunk. I don't You know what? I haven't drunk in 10 years. Yeah. No. No. No. It's hard for these guys to understand this. We do this with no drugs, no alcohol, and we never ever ever lead with money ever. That's going to be the next biggest objection, the haters in the comments. We do not lead with money ever when it when it deals with these women. Because once you lead with money, you can never go back. The guys who take a bunch of steroids, when they get that big, they can never go back to being that big without taking steroids. And when you lead with money with a woman, you can never get back to where you are without leading with money. Once you lead with money with a woman, you can never do anything else. Yeah. You can't go from provider to like like sex toy. Like I want I want women who who date me to see me as like this viable sexual object to desire me sexually even if I was broke. If I lead with money, I can never get that. But if I lead if I lead with attraction, then later on if she turns out to be an incredible woman, then I can provide for her because she's bringing peace to my home and maybe a child into my life. That woman I can provide for her. So, I can start with genuine desire and move to money, but I can't start with money and then move to genuine desire. And there's a bunch of men right now in seeking arrangement who don't understand that concept. Or maybe they just don't care. Yeah. Or maybe they don't care, right? They they just they just ordering pizza. You know what I'm saying? Like instead of ordering pizza instead of making it. It just it is a little damaging if if you do that to try like some of my hardest clients to deal with are the ones that have become addicted to prostitutes. So, because what happens is now I put them in a situation where they have to approach regular women. So now they're [\h__\h] a 10, but now they have to go through my program and get rejected by a six because they have no game. Ah, yeah, I can get it. It be like only ordered food and now you tell them to cook. Yeah. Well, they're they're trust fun kid and you take the money away. Like they just they're terrified. They don't know. They were using that as a crutch. And so that's one of the issues that happens. And so some of the hardest guys for me to deal with aren't the guys who don't have game. Some of the hardest clients I have are the ones that pay women for sex and think they have game, but they don't have any. because they that makes a lot of sense. Yeah. I get you. We got one more then we got to go. We have Nav. Should I drive a Canary instead of a Lambo if I don't want to lead with money? Um, what I would do, my answer to this is I would lead I would buy a car that you think is comfortable. If you really love a Lambo, that's fine. I would maybe have a Camry and a Lambo and then pick her up for the first date in the Camry and see how she likes it and then the second date you had a good time, then pick her up in the Lambo. But only if you want the Lamborghini. If you like it, if you like it. Like if you live in Los Angeles and you drive a Lamborghini, you're just you just don't care about your car. That is the worst roads in the world to drive a Lamborghini on. You will scuff that thing up. If you live in Miami, I know there's a lot of Lamborghinis here, but you don't like you need I want some open road if I'm going to drive something like that. I I haven't had a car in like over 15 years. Yeah. This is the other thing. A lot of guys now just because of Uber, they don't have any cars whatsoever. I have a fleet of private drivers. Yeah. Everywhere I want to go. Yeah. By the way, I bought this Sky Dweller to network with men. Women don't give a [\h__\h] That's a Richard Mills. Like that car. I mean, people don't understand. Like, this is this is Men notice this. If a woman comes up to me goes, "Is that the blue sky dweller?" I'm like, "Are you a hooker?" Like, how the [\h__\h] did you know that? How did you know that's a sky dweller? Like, women just don't care about this at all. I go to women who have Rolexes on and I ask them, "What kind of Rolexes?" They don't even know. They just saw something pretty. Like, it this is not for You remember Chris Bumpstead, the the the physique bodybuilder? He goes on Chris Williamson after he wins uh Mr. Olympia and he goes, "Uh, what have you noticed from doing the bodybuilding on your social media?" He goes, "9% men. Just men." Men chase after me. When you see these guys who are pickup artists and they're like out there trying to teach guys how to meet women, who was their entire social circle? Men. It's just men following. Nothing but men. And so that's that's essentially what happens. But yeah, you do this to to network with. Same with cars, too, right? Like the car guys who are I'm not a car guy, but guys who are car guys, they typically got some money. You know what I'm saying? Like my boy Jeremy, he's got like four super cars and he talks to other car guys about cars. Me and him talk about watches and [\h__\h] you know, but like guys like watches, cars, you know, and uh it helps. It's another way to network for sure. Yeah. Awesome. Well, listen, Mike, man, I know you said it before, but it bears repeating. Where can people get more information? Uh, just go to again, just look me up on Instagram. That's probably the easiest way. I I really like people to start with Instagram because a lot of people don't have one or it's not curated very well. you got, you know, if you've ever had you reach out to somebody to come on their podcast or a girl like try to slide in your DMs or whatever, Instagram has its own language to it. There's like an unend feature. There's like you can see their images. You can share memes on there. Learn that. If you're if you're A-50-year-old guy right now, like guys, I am a retired US Air Force captain. I flew spec ops for 5 years. Do you think I want to use a [\h__\h] dog filter? Do you think I want to do No, I'm just a [\h__\h] of what works. So, just learn the language of Instagram. So, I would recommend guys go look up Michael Sartine on Instagram. Easiest way to find me. Or you can look up Michael Sartine on YouTube. That's another way to find me. And there's a link in the bio. If you like what you see, click the link in the bio and then, you know, we can we'll set up a call. It's going to be with me or or one of my uh one of my uh coaches right afterwards and we can go through and look step by step at what's going on. Or, you know, you find out, hey, uh you just wanted some free advice. That's what we're there for. We can do that as well. Awesome, man. Thank you so much. Of course, brother. Man, I hope y'all enjoyed that game. Listen, we do this every Tuesday and Thursday at 700 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Oh, one more thing. Tomorrow, if you want if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, right? Tomorrow, 700 p.m. I'm doing a free training where I will show you exactly how to grow your online fitness business, how to go even if you don't even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have any experience, I will take you by the hand, show you step by step how you can get your first clients, grow your social media, all that [\h__\h] I'm going to break you all the game. not going to sell you anything. It's 100% free game. Come join. It's going to be a lot of fun. And uh but you we only have last time we did this the webinar [\h__\h] um we got overflow for the servers and it crashed. So we going to limit how many people can go. So make sure you register now so you don't miss out on that. All right. It's tomorrow at 7 p.m. All right. Again, this has been uh the Victory Talk podcast episode 199. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, man. This is great. Heat. Heat.