time to get productive so you can start making some money, stop being a lazy [\h__\h] and finally start getting paid, start accomplishing your goals, achieving your dreams. But in order to do that, you're going to need to be more productive. I'm going to break down some of the extreme things you can do to be productive. This is definitely going to be one of those videos that some nerd says, "Oh man, nobody can do that. No one has time for that." They're going to clip it and react to it and say, "It's too much." And if anybody says that in the comments, "Oh, that's too much. That's too much." Shame those people mercilessly. They will never be successful. This is going to be extreme. It's over the top. I know a little something about productivity. I've used the taxes I'm going to show you to create several multi8 figureure businesses. Bring myself out of poverty from the black ghetto of the southside Chicago to what you see now. Multi-millionaire penthouse condo Miami overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. Millions of followers, millions of dollars, watches that cost more than your mother house. Let's get right into the habits that you need to be super productive. If you can become more productive, you can get more done in less time. And if one of your goals is to get rich, this is how you get rich faster. And this is all going to be real [\h__\h] that I've done. First thing we need to focus on is your biology. To be productive, you have to use your body. Anything you want to accomplish, you your body is going to accomplish these things. We need to make sure that our body is running in tip-top shape, a welloiled machine. And one thing you can do to be more productive so you can have more energy is stabilize your glucose levels. So you may be saying, "What is glucose and why the [\h__\h] do I need to stabilize this shit?" When you're on uh the traditional American diet, you eat carbohydrates and those carbohydrates convert into glucose or glycogen. When your blood glucose levels go above 110, your pancreas secretes a hormone called insulin. insulin's job is to flush the excess glucose out of your body. Otherwise, you'll die. This is why diabetics, they don't make insulin. Their bodies don't make it. They have to inject it or otherwise they die, pass out, all types of [\h__\h] The problem with that glucose and insulin spike, insulin is super indiscriminate about how it takes the glucose out of your body. It'll take it from as much as it can out of your body and out of your brain as well. And when that happens, you start to lose energy. This is why a lot of times people get super tired after they eat. Now, that doesn't happen to me cuz I do the ketogenic diet. It used to happen to me when I ate like you. I've been doing keto for like 8 years. Now, you don't have to do keto to stabilize your glucose levels. There's things you can do to keep your glucose levels stable. Now, this is extreme advice in this video. I highly recommend you get a continuous glucose monitor. I did this for a month, right? To really just dial this in so I can be more productive. Put this on your arm, wear it there for a month, and see how your body reacts to different foods. What spikes your glucose levels? Cuz you want to keep it as stable as possible. If you keep it stable, you'll have more energy and you'll be more productive. Those of you who've done intermittent fasting before where like a 16- hour fast every day, a lot of people report that they're they have way more energy during the fast. And then once the fast ends, it's kind of like their energy starts to go down downhill. That's because their glucose levels are super stable during the fast, but once they start to eat, they had those glucose spikes and insulin spikes. the ketogenic diet or fasting are are one ways to kind of stabilize your levels. But there's things you can do even if you want to eat carbs. Here's what I recommend. If you're going to eat carbohydrates, make sure you always eat carbohydrates with protein. You have to eat them together, right? And if you wear glucose monitor, you'll actually see this effect in real time. If you just eat carbohydrates, especially simple carbohydrates, you'll see a sharp glucose spike. Eat it with protein, your glucose levels stay more stable, and then you'll have more energy. You'll accomplish your goals. Another thing you can do is go for a 10 15 minute walk after you eat. This allows your body to use up that extra glucose fast after you eat. Another thing you can do is eat more like green vegetables. And especially if you start with green vegetables, fibrous vegetables like salad, broccoli. If you eat that before you eat the carbohydrates and your other foods, then what happens is the fiber will minimize the glucose spike. These are a few things you can do to stabilize your glucose levels. If you do that, I promise you, you'll have so much more energy. I used to do intermittent fasting. I did it for like five years in a row and I was so much more productive during the fast. And as soon as I started eating, if I'm done with work, I had to get all my work done before 3:00 when I broke my fast because I knew it was kind of downhill from there. And then I went keto and it was like, oh, I had that feeling all day cuz my glucose levels were stable. You don't have to do intermittent fasting. You don't have to do keto. You can if you want. Follow that advice to keep your glucose levels more stable. And stay away from like sugar candy cuz you're an adult. You're not a [\h__\h] child. cuz according to my YouTube an analytics, there's no women or children watching this [\h__\h] So you [\h__\h] shouldn't be eating no goddamn candy anyway. The next thing you need to do is to plan out every hour of every day in your calendar. So I started doing this back when I had like four different jobs. It was during the recession of08. Couldn't get a good job even though I went to college. My father had just killed himself. I take care of the whole family, record unemployment, and couldn't just sit around crying and being poor. So I said, you know, I'm going to outwork it. So I started working like 80 hours a week. I would wake up early, train people in the morning, shower at the gym, boom, go to the Prada store, work security at the Prada store. After work at the Prada store, I work for a moving company. That was five days a week. And on the weekends, I woke up early, trained people in the morning, and then managed a restaurant in Queens. This is 80 hours a week for like 2 years. People always ask me, man, how did you train? How did you get enough sleep? How'd you eat when you were working that much? I still work over 80 hours a week. And I don't neglect my family. I don't neglect my health. I don't neglect my sleep. that I'm able to get all this [\h__\h] done because I plan out every hour of every day in my calendar. If you get one thing from this video, let it be this. Here's my calendar. Now, if you even right now, I'm planning out every hour of every day because once you start to do this, you are able to weaponize time. You're able to weaponize time and you get way more done every day. Do this for one week. Plan out every hour of every day in your calendar. If you do this, a few things will happen. one, you'll get way more done than you did maybe in the the whole month before that. People have no idea how much time they're wasting until they plan out every hour of every day in their calendar. They're shocked at how much time they're wasting and how much more they get done. The next thing that will happen is most of your bad habits will go away without you even trying. If you plan out every hour of every day and you're trying to get rid of some bad habits and you're not going to put bad habits in your calendar or you're not going to put getting high and gooning in your calendar, I'd advise against that. You'll get so much more done and all the things you're trying to stop doing, you won't do it as much. There's no time for the [\h__\h] if you plan out every hour of every day. I'm telling you, it won't even take discipline. Next thing you we're going to talk about, we're going to bring it back to biology, is there's a few supplements you can take that'll increase your productivity exponentially. One of them, my favorite supplement is caffeine. I take about 1,000 milligs of caffeine per day. Now, you don't want to start with that, right? You want to work your way up there. You know, I've been abusing caffeine since I was like 16 years old, since the 90s, the [\h__\h] Clinton administration. I was listening to DMX first album, man. And I would eat like 400 milligs of caffeine. You know, it's very difficult to overdose on caffeine. The lethal dose of caffeine is uh 10,000 millig. Caffeine is a proven performance-enhancing. Caffeine improves performance so much. If you take too much caffeine in the Olympics, you get disqualified. That's how you know it works when they want to restrict how much you take. You and me, we ain't in the real Olympics. We in the money-making Olympics. Ain't no referees. We can take as much as we want. It is a [\h__\h] Chico. There's tons of studies that show that caffeine improves cognitive abilities. So now you move better. You got more energy and thinking faster, thinking better. It's a fantastic supplement. The next supplement that I recommend to increase productivity is nicotine. This is going to be a controversial one. Before you start talking [\h__\h] about me recommending nicotine for productivity, there's tons of studies showing that nicotine is a neutropic, meaning it improves cognitive abilities. Nicotine itself is not really bad. It's smoking is bad. Inhaling smoke into your lungs that kills people, not the drug nicotine. It dramatically improves cognitive ability. You know, I was afraid to say this [\h__\h] publicly. I knew it cuz I read the studies. My my favorite white science man, Andrew Huberman, did a whole episode about the benefits of nicotine. You know, sometimes people don't believe what I say until a white man says it. So, it it dramatically improves cognitive abilities. And there's a few different ways you can ingest it. The safest way is nicotine patch. I'm wearing a nicotine patch right now. If you've only seen me on the internet, you probably never seen me without a nicotine patch on. There's been times I've I've had multiple patches on when I really need to lock in. Uh, another white man that y'all believe all the time is um, Alex Heroszi. He's really uh, Persian. He says it's almost like aderall. He's going to have nicotine gum, nicotine mints. I think they make do your own research. Caffeine and nicotine. Let's take it a step further. This is a supplement that I I recommend a lot for fat loss, but it also helps with productivity of Fedra. I learned about this in high school. I would take these fat burning pills before class and I would be [\h__\h] locked in, zoned in class. That's how I got the 3.8 8 GPA. Take these fat burning pills. It was this [\h__\h] called RIP fuel. It had ephedra in it. Ephedra is mostly a fat loss/appetite uh suppressor. But I just noticed, man, I really zoned in when I took a fedra. Really helped me get help me stay focused. I'm talking about peak state [\h__\h] They made it illegal to put in bodybuilding supplements. In America, you can just go in a store in London and buy that [\h__\h] But you can still get a fedra in the United States. You don't need a prescription, but you got to go to the pharmacist and ask for something called Bron Aid. is an asthma medication, but the main ingredient is ephedra. Caffeine, nicotine patch, and a fedra. So, I'll take like two 300 milligrams of caffeine or I like to take it in pre-workout form because I kind of like some of the other ingredients in pre-workout. A bronade while wearing a nicotine patch, and I'm ready to lock in. I'm hesitant to recommend this, but I'm going to anyway. The holy grail of productivity is Adderall. If you have a obviously you have a prescription and you've talked to your physician and you qualify to take Adderall, there is nothing that will help you be more productive in aderall. However, when I first took Adderall, I realized I had to be very careful cuz whatever you're doing before you take Adderall, you're going to be doing that thing for the next, I don't know, 5 to 7 hours. I remember once I took some Adderall, I was like, "Oh, let me clean up before I get to work." I [\h__\h] deep clean the whole [\h__\h] crib and got no work done. And then once I was like, yo, I was going to work on something, but YouTube was up. I took Adall YouTube was up. This was back when chicks was they they could put twerk videos on YouTube, but it was a twerk video up and it came in my recommendations. I watched about 7 hours of twerk videos. Whatever you're doing before you take aderall, you got to be ready to do have everything set up, then take the get immediately to work. The reason I don't like to recommend aderall because it's super addictive. You're going to have to keep upping the dose for it to be effective. And when you quit, there are crazy drawbacks. So, you know, I was super depressed when I quit when I quit aderall. I was depressed for like 2 weeks and I was tired for 2 weeks. But luckily, I knew that that was a side effect. So, just be careful. My productivity stack is safer than aderal. But at the same time, listen, depends on how extreme you want to be. This is the video for extreme. If you want to get super extreme, maybe the juice is worth the squeeze. Because I knew a guy, he was like pounding aderall and he built a $10 million business and then, you know, he sold it, then he quit. He said he quit. He was depressed for like, you know, a month. I was like, "Was it worth it?" He was like, "Yeah, it was it was worth it, man." The next thing you need to do to be more productive, plan out all your goals and have deadlines for every step. And then you put every step in your calendar. I have a tool that will help you with uh do that. It's called the Victory Vision Planner. The link is in the description. So, what if you go to the evictive revision planner, this one, this one, it's called the ambition planner, right? And I'll open this. Boom. And this is dummy data in here. What you do is you put your goals here and then you put out every step it takes to accomplish this goal. And then you put a deadline on every step. This is example data from last year, right? I'll show you what this looks like. Let's say I set a new goal, right? [\h__\h] your mama. What would the steps be to [\h__\h] your mama? All right. So, I probably got to find her IG, right? Boom. Find her IG. Boom. Then I probably have to slide in that ho's DM. Boom. Then I have to set up date with hoe. Now there ain't a whole lot of steps to [\h__\h] this [\h__\h] right? You know what I'm saying? Then I have to go on date with that hoe and then smash. Now here's the thing. Now we got deadlines for every step. So we got to we remember I said we got to have deadlines instead. So what we do is we click in the goal. Boom. Status not started, right? When we have this up, well, this is something we we probably we probably need to do this by tomorrow. Slide in the DM. Probably do do that tomorrow as well. When we going to set up the date, you need to do this for all your goals. Like, when you going to set up the date? Probably talk to her on IG for a little bit. Set up Set up the date. Let's call it T. Let's call it Thursday, man. Set up date on Thursday. Go on that date with the hoe. Take it out on Take it out on Saturday night, man. Show a good time. And then we probably we going we going to [\h__\h] this [\h__\h] that same night obviously. And this is how you set up your goals. You got to have a deadline for every step. The cool thing about the victory revision planner is we can let's say finder IG. Let's say this is in progress, right? Boom. We can go to the progress tab that I made for you. And you can see all your goals like all your goals, right? This is the Lambo goal. This is the 10K a month goal. This is You can see what's not started, what's in progress, and what's done. Once you accomplish this, you can either move it over here like this or you can do it right here. Just boom, in progress. You can also, what's really cool about this, cuz a lot of your goals are going to take longer than this. You can say this month, here's what happens this month, what you need to do this month. This is where it gets dope. You take each one this month or we can go to this week. Right? Cool. This stuff we got to do this week. And all your goals are going to come up here. All the steps for all your goals are going to be here. And what you do is you put in your calendar when you're going to do it, not when it's due. That's the problem when people set goals and try to plan it out. They only have due dates. And due dates are great. You also need to put in when you're going to do it. Put that in your calendar. You have to estimate how much time each one of these goals is going to take. For example, I'm supposed to slide in her DM tomorrow. All right. So, now I go to my calendar. Let me let me copy this. Copy. This is I go on my dummy calendar, right? Okay. When I'm going to do this [\h__\h] All right. I mean, I guess I I I would see when I had time cuz I'd have all my other goals in here. I'm like, "Okay, around noon." I can slide in her DM. Boom. How long is that going to take? I don't know. Let's get let's give myself 30 minutes. Oh, also you can click into the goal and I can put you can put your notes in here. Things that have to do with the step of your goal. Let's say I'm supposed to go on date with her. So, when am I going to go on a date with I'm supposed to do it on on June June 14th, right? So, I would look at my calendar, see when I had time. This is dummy data. I ain't going to make this [\h__\h] my whole night. Put it right here. Boom. Give it a few hours. You know, I'll be back by 10, right? So, you put when you're going to do an account. You do this with all your goals. This is a notion template. The vision victory plan. I was being a little silly with the goal, right? But you could do that with any of your goals and you you want to put it in here. And this is free. The link is in the description. But this is extreme. You want to plan out all your goals. Put deadlines for each step. And then put in your calendar when you're going to do these goals, when you're going to do each step. Because of the victory vision planner, the way it's set up with the progress, you can start tracking your progress. So studies show that when people track their progress, they are significantly more likely to accomplish them. The next thing you need to do to be more productive is start meditating. So, I've been meditating over 15 years now. I meditate twice a day and both sessions are 15 minutes. One of the reasons this is so helpful is because there was a study done by Harvard University that showed that after just 8 weeks of meditation, part of your brain called the amygdala starts to shrink. And that's the part of your brain that controls your fight orflight response, fear, anxiety, that part of your brain actually starts to shrink. And there's another study that showed that the part of your brain that's responsible for logic, your neoortex, starts to become more dense after just eight weeks of of meditation. So now we're changing our brain. We're changing our brain in a way that makes us more logical and less reactive emotionally. It's not just a biological thing. Also, it's difficult to have productivity when your mind is not right. But if your mind is calmer and you can just go accomplish the goal, start knocking it out like a robot. like being anxious, having anxiety, being scared, your heart rate starts to to go up and you actually waste energy. If you've been meditating, right, just 8 weeks of meditation changes your brain. You'll be more you'll be calm. One thing you need to understand is some people say, "Man, I meditated today and I ain't feel no different." Like meditation, I want you to think about it like exercise for your brain. Meditating once or even like two days in a row is not going to do anything. It takes at least eight weeks for you to start seeing the progress. It's kind of like lifting weights, right? you're not going to see progress. It It takes a while for the muscle to grow, right? Think about it like exercise for your brain. Meditation changes your brain. It has to be done frequently over a significant amount of time. Once it happens, it'll be way calmer and it'll be way easier for you to accomplish your goals. It's less taxing on your central nervous system and your brain. And you can use that energy to accomplish your goals. Next thing you're going to do make make you more productive is to not multitask. Multitasking actually causes you to be less productive. So here's a study that shows that task switching leads to 40% loss in productivity. If you're switching tasks, what happens is once you start doing something, it takes a little bit of time for your brain to acclimate to this new thing that you're doing. And then once you start to acclimate to it, you start to get in the zone and and it starts to become easier. Multitasking, you're not doing two things at once. You're switching from one thing rapidly. So you never really acclimate to either one of them. This is why the study says it's a 40% loss in productivity. Here's another study to show task switching leads to more mistakes. So, you're going to [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up more if you are doing doing multiple things at once. So, what do you do instead? You want to dive into one thing and do it till it's done. You're not getting distracted by your phone. You're not getting distracted by other people. You want to really lock in, zone in, and you'll get that task done way faster. There's a great book called Deep Work, right? It goes into way, way more depth on that. Once I read that book, it took my productivity to the next level because I was getting more done in less time. The next thing you need to do to be more productive is to get more sleep. Not only more sleep, but better sleep. Study show that the better you sleep, the more productive you are. And it makes sense. If you're all lethargic, it's going to be difficult for you to get more stuff done. So, what do you do? Well, first thing we have to do is we have to start tracking our sleep. So, you can get some sort of fitness tracker that that works for your sleep. I use a ring that you can use Apple Watch, Woop, any sort of fitness tracker that tracks your sleep. You want to keep doing things to improve not only the quantity of sleep, but also the quality. And there's a few things that I've noticed improve the quality of my sleep. So, I don't even need more. Like, I used to need like 8 to n hours of sleep, but because I've optimized my sleep, now I'm really good at just 7 hours of sleep because I get more deep sleep and more REM sleep. Here are some of the things that help me. One, I have blackout curtains, pitch black in my room. Also, keep the room colder, right? In the low 60s. studies show that people have a better quality of sleep when they're in a cold room. Another thing I got from um a book called Why We Sleep. And he said in the book to wear socks to sleep because it helps regulate your body temperature. He also said to take a shower before you go to sleep, a hot shower before you go to sleep. And this regulates your body temperature as well. Now, if we want to get more extreme, remember this is the extreme video. I had this thing called a chili pad. It's like this little refrigerator unit on the side of my bed that that runs cold water through this mattress pad that's on top of my my mattress. And it feels just like, you know, when you flip your your pillow over, you know, the cool side of the pillow. Imagine your whole body feeling like that all night. And once I got that, my sleep performance skyrocketed. And I noticed that when I when I leave home and I have to sleep somewhere else, I get less deep sleep and less REM sleep. These are the things that really help me get way more done in way less time. Make sure you you download that victory vision planner. The link is free. I use this productivity tips to build my online fitness business to multiple seven figures. Now I teach other people how to do it. If you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook called the ten commandments of online training. It will really break down everything you need to be an online trainer. Go ahead and click the link in description and check it out. It's free. All right. Hey, hey, hey.