So, you're ready to put on some muscle, put on some size, ready to stop looking like a punk. I'm going to give you some tips, extreme ways to build muscle faster than you ever thought possible. And I've been a personal trainer for over 26 years. I've trained thousands of people. What I'm saying to you, it's not just some I made up or some that just worked for me. This is [\h__\h] that's worked for a lot of people that I've trained, right? This is me from the field. It's not just some [\h__\h] I read in a book. If you can't watch a short video on how to make muscle, you don't deserve to put on any mask. Let's get into it. Now, again, these are extreme ways. So, if any of you are saying some like, "That's too much work. I don't want to do that." That's why you a people don't like you. Why the did you click on a video that said extreme ways to build muscle and then say, "Oh, that's too extreme. Why are you here?" The first extreme thing you need to do to build muscle faster is full body workouts. I know a lot of people will tell you to do splits, different bro splits. I've been doing full body workouts for over a decade. I was natural and people were saying that I was on roids. I was making videos about it me being on roids. But you got to understand I'm doing full body workouts and you not. That's one of the reasons. Let's break this down. Let's say we got two bodybuilders. Bodybuilder A does full body workouts. He's a G. Bodybuilder B, he's doing a split routine. Maybe he's doing one body part a week. All right? like chest day, back day, leg day, shoulder day, and then arm day. The bodybuilder A who's doing the full body workout, let's say he's picking for his chest, say he's picking two exercises, and it's probably going to be two compound movements. So, he's doing something like bench press or bench press and dips, whatever, four sets for his chest. Let's just say he's doing something modest, like three full body workouts a week. Every session, he's doing eight sets of chest, right? Each week he's getting 24 sets of chest exercises. If we spread that out over a year or 24 sets, 52 weeks, that's going to have him at 1,248 sets per year. All right, keep that number in mind. Let's say this [\h__\h] bodybuilder doing the bro split and he's doing chest once a week. He can do more sets per exercise. So maybe he's doing cuz he has a whole chest day. Maybe he's doing like a bunch of different exercises total of like 16 sets, right? He's doing bench press, incline bench press, cable crossover, but is it totals like 16 sets cuz this is like a chest day. He can only do that like once a week cuz he's going to kill the muscle, right? Once a week, right? So, he only gets 16 sets total per week. Bodybuilder A, who was doing the full body workout, he was getting 24 sets per week. Over the course of 52 weeks, he's only getting 16 sets per week. His total sets was 832. But the guy was doing the full body workouts, he's getting more sets per [\h__\h] year. Y'all can [\h__\h] around and get more sets. If you're doing a full body workout, it's almost twice as much. Before steroids was invented, every bodybuilder did full body workouts. And people didn't start doing splits until steroids were invented. Cuz after you lift weights, something occurs called protein synthesis. Basically, a fancy way of saying muscle building. Protein synthesis lasts for about 48 hours. So if you're doing chest day, you're missing out on 5 days of protein sentences because it only lasts for for 48 hours. That changed when people started doing steroids. Why? Steroids, anabolic steroids extend the length of protein synthesis. So they found out that protein synthesis lasts for like way longer when you're on roids. So they was like, "Fuck it. Let's just crush the muscle. Let's kill it. They can get more gains." But they're on roids, so they're going to get more gains anyway. But before steroids were invented, all bodybuilders did full body workouts. So if you're a natural, it stands a reason you should do what naturals did before steroids were invented. And plus, you'll just get more sets. If we just look at the math, you'll get more sets. You'll get more sets more frequently because protein synthesis lasts for 48 hours. So after 48 hours, you you train a muscle. After 48 hours, you do another full body workout. Boom. Now you're consistently in a muscle building stage. Each muscle is in a muscle building stage consistently. If you're doing splits, then you're missing out on a lot of potential muscle growth. But here's another part of it. When you do full body workouts, you should only do compound movements. These are big body movements cuz compound movements put on the most muscle. Compound movement can be classified as like a multi- joint movement. Bench press is a compound movement cuz you can see you're using this joint here and you're using the joint here. Boom. A multi- joint movement. Where isolation movement some be a single joint movement. It would be cable crossover, right? Cuz you're only moving here. Single joint movement. You're only moving here, right? That's an isolation movement. It's a fact. It's not debatable. Compound movements are better for putting on size. It's not up for debate. You're doing full body workouts. We're not doing isolation movements except for arms and calves, right? Because it's at the end of the chain, right? So, it's like you can only do one joint to hit bicep and and tricep, but for the most part, we're doing all compound movements. So, not only are you getting more sets per year, you're getting better sets when it comes to building muscle because it's all compound movements. If you're doing chest day, you're not doing it all compound movements. You're going to be doing a bunch of isolation [\h__\h] as well. And that's okay if you're on roids, full body workouts, compound movements. You have increased protein synthesis and you'll get more sets. This is one of the big reasons people thought I was on steroids for so long because they were doing splits. everyone else is doing splits because they got it from muscle magazines and [\h__\h] But these muscle magazines were made by and for steroid users. So when you structure your full body workout, you should pick one or two compound movements per body part except for obviously except for arms and calves, right? So chest compound movements include barbell bench press, dumbbell bench press, incline barbell press, incline dumbbell press, dips, push-ups, [\h__\h] like that. But if you want to build the most muscle, you don't want to [\h__\h] with dumbbells. You want to [\h__\h] with barbells. Barbells will put on more muscle than dumbbells because it's what's called a closed chain movement. So in dumbbells you can volume them arms move independently. You can do whatever you want when you're bench pressing, right? But barbell your hands are stationed. They can't move independently. The chain is closed. That's why it's called a closed chain movement. Closed chain movements will put on more muscle. I would focus on barbells. Barbell bench press. Incline barbell bench press. Dips is a closed chain movement as well. For back you got deadlifts. deadlifts actually work your whole posterior chain. They work your back, parts of your legs. It's a good back accessory. Pull-ups, chin-ups, bent over barbell rows, t- bar rows, and we can we can throw in cable rows as well, seated cable rows. Shoulders, you got overhead press. That's really the main one. Overhead press. I do handstand push-ups, freestanding handstand push-ups, but you ain't strong enough for that [\h__\h] right? So, you just going to do overhead press. legs. Of course, we got squats, back squats, front squats. I really believe if you want to put on the most muscle, you should do back squats, but low bar back squats. Low bar will work your posterior chain more effectively, especially if you're an athlete. Low bar back squats will help you with your performance more more than high bar. Deadlifts work your legs as well. I'm not the biggest fan, right? But lunges, leg press, if you want to work the glutes, let's say you're trying to work that booty, hip thrust is probably the best exercise for that. Romanian deadlifts, sumo deadlifts. For arms, actually, man. So, okay, this is kind of a cheat though. For arms, you can do chin-ups. If you want to work your your bicep more, lock out when you do when you go to the bottom of the movement and then pull up. If you want to work your back more, you don't lock out at the top of the movement, right? Cuz your bicep will too much work. So, if I wanted to work my back more doing chin-ups, what I do is I would move my thumbs around here so that my hands are like hooks and and I would not fully extend my biceps. If I want to do chin-ups in a way to work my biceps more, like it's a compound movement for my biceps, I want to wrap my thumb around and I want to fully extend at the bottom and then come up. Chin-ups is good for that. Dips, it's same kind of thing. If I want to work my triceps more, I won't lean forward as much. I'll make sure that I lock out at the top. So, I usually squeeze my triceps. So, you can see a squeeze. If I want to do dips and wanted to work my chest more, I would lean forward more and I wouldn't lock out. A super underrated tricep exercise is closed grip bench press. You get a bench press with the barbell close and get a closed grip and and then push up and make sure you actually extend your arms. Block out to work your triceps more. And you're going to pick one to two exercises, three to four sets. And a new study came out that I read recently that showed that resting 3 minutes between your sets puts on more muscle than resting 1 minute. I'm somebody who I always time my sets. I was trying to put on as much muscle as possible. After the set, I I hit hit my hit the Siri button on my Apple Watch. Set 3minut time. Now, to save time, opposing muscle groups, you can superset them. I kind of always super set. So you can do bench press followed by bent over rows, right? Because back and chest are opposing muscle groups. I would do closed grip chin-ups, locking out for for biceps and then closed grip bench press, but I super set them and then I rest 3 minutes, right? That's say that saves a little bit of time. And I say you do three or four full body workouts for a week. I do full body workouts every day. Uh and I just take rest days when life forces me to. You know, I got too much [\h__\h] going on. Let's get into diet. Nothing works without diet. So, here's what I think you should do to build as much muscle as possible. You can take your body weight in pounds, multiply that by 20, and that's how many calories you should get per day. If you're 200 lb, that means you need 4,000 calories. Some people might be saying, "That's too much. That's extreme." I told your [\h__\h] ass this was going to be extreme. I already told your goofy ass we doing extreme [\h__\h] I'm assuming you're not fat already. Like if you skinny fat, you need to cut first and you want to get at least one gram of protein per pound of body weight. I know your favorite fitness influencer says you don't need one gram. You can get just8. Studies show that8 is all you need. Yes, studies do show that8 is all you need. But those studies were done under perfect conditions by laboratory nerds. We don't live in a [\h__\h] laboratory. We live in the real world, man. We ain't drinking out of beers and test tubes and [\h__\h] or whatever they they had them doing in the real world. The FDA allows food labels to be off by 20%. So you get something that says it has 10 grams of protein, it might be 12 grams, it might be eight. I I rather you get one gram of protein per pound of body weight because that will make up for any mislabelings cuz the the FDA allows labels to be off by 20%. So we make up for it by making sure you get 20% more. And if you get too much protein, it's cool. There's no negative ramifications for too much protein. What about fats and carbohydrates? Don't care what you're doing. Tons of carbs or tons of fat. But you need to pick one. You got to do either high fat or high carbs. When you mix fat and carbs, that's when things start to go haywire and your body has different hormonal responses to that. Both work. Most important thing is calories and protein. I like low carbs. I bulked on keto with the same formula. It's worked out great. A lot of people do high carbs and low fat. Most bodybuilders do lowfat and high carbs. And there might be an advantage to that because you get a a higher insulin response and insulin is anabolic. So there might be an advantage to that. I I do keto for reasons outside of body composition. We talk about sleep. You want to get 8 to 9 hours of sleep per night. If you're natural, you make your testosterone in your sleep. Without sleep, you won't grow. 8 to 9 hours of sleep. And you want to get be serious about it. Don't [\h__\h] around. 9 hours is probably what you should for to put on as much muscle as possible. Now, let's get to the supplements. This is for natural. We're not going so extreme. We could get crazier, but we're not going to. We're going to keep it natural. I think you should start taking highdose creatine. So, you only need 5 g of creatine to put on muscle. That's all you need. However, highdose creatine has other benefits. If you take high dose, it actually helps you with your brain functionality. It can help with depression. It can help with cognitive functions. And it can really improve mood. I take 10 grams of creatine every day. I've been doing that for like 20 years. Everybody should take creatine. Kine is safe, effective, all ages. One of my friends, Benowski, he was a pro bodybuilder. He ain't never won Miss Olympia, but he he placed and he did he did well. He didn't get embarrassed. He did a good job. When my son was about to be born, Ben already had some kids, and I was talking to him. I was just joking. I said, "So, how soon should I put him on creatine?" He said, "Tday one. Day one." Everyone should take creatine, even if you don't work out. Another supplement that I find super helpful is Seialis. There's tons of studies that show that seialis actually helps build muscle cuz it's a vasod diilator, meaning it increases blood flow. So, it helps you get a bigger pump. If you put all this together, man, do it for 90 days. I promise you, you'll put on more muscle than you have in your whole life. And listen, let's say you already got a good amount of muscle, right? And you want to start training people. Well, I got a free ebook for you called the Ten Commandments of Online Training. And this way, you can help other people put on muscle, right? And get paid to do it, right? I made my first million as online trainer. and I've taught over 15,000 people how to grow their online fitness business. I can show YouTube for free. Click that link in the description. Download the ebook. All right.