Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. I'm about to take y'all through this ab, abdominal, and cardio workout. You know, it's the cutting season. Everybody's trying to get ripped. And I'm show you what I've been doing lately to accomplish that. So, I start almost every abdominal workout with dragon flies or dragon flags rather. And like you see, I'm just I'm I'm accentuating the negative just to make it more difficult. And I basically do that just so I don't have to do a lot of them, right? Because if I just went up and down fast, then I would just I would have to do a lot to get to failure. So basically all these exercises I'm doing today, all these abdominal exercises, I'm going to failure and I'm doing about four sets of each and I'm resting about I don't know 60 to 90 seconds. Not not much time at all between each set because I was working out with a partner. So I was just doing as uh just not resting too long. So, after the dragon flags, I go into cable crunch. Now, cable crunch is probably my favorite uh abdominal exercise. I feel like it just really hits them hard. And but most people do it wrong. Most people bend from their waist, from their hips, as opposed to from their their abdominals. So, you got to make sure you're bending from the right spot. I have a a tutorial on how to do it. And what I'm doing here is I'm just uh going to the side each time to a different side. Altered. I want to get the obliques involved to get the side abs. That's when I something I want to accentuate this summer, you know. All right. So then I'm doing Roman twist, but I'm got a 45 lb plate. Keep my legs up. Just going from side to side. The hardest part of this is just staying balanced. Like it it looks like I'm struggling just cuz I'm struggling not to fall over with this weight in my hand. It's a good exercise. You should really incorporate it. Listen, this is advanced. All the stuff I'm doing is advanced. So, if you can't do it, don't feel bad. Just do what you can do. All right. So, then what I did right here was I did uh windshield wipers. So, you basically just put your grab the bar, put your hips up, and go side to side. Listen, if you can't do this, you can do this with your back on the floor. That's an alternate. Just go from side to side like that. That's a lot easier than in this variation. Then, I did uh Superman push-ups. If you can't do this, just do like the wheel or something, you know, the ab wheel or something like that. Then went upstairs and I just held the lsit for as long as I could. You can just do this on the floor, but I I did on with these two things because it looks cooler, but you can just do this on the floor with some bars. Just hold it for as long as I I could, man, till failure. Then for cardio, I started with uh jumping rope. All right, I'm not the best jump roper. I know I look a little silly, but whatever. I just jump rope. How I do it is I just jump rope for about 20 seconds and rest for 20 seconds. And I repeat that five times. Rest for 20 I mean jump for 20 seconds. Rest for 20 seconds. Repeat five times. Then I did this just jumping up and down. This is harder than jumping rope. I just did it just jumping up and down. Rest. Do it for 20 seconds and rest for 20 seconds and repeat five times. And that was basically the whole workout. It was uh abdominal and cardio. I did legs also that day, but that's another video. All right. So anyway, hope that helps. Let's give it a shot.