Hey, I'm betting it down on me. They said they ride for me and it's not so bad on me. I know there's no friends in this business. That's why I keep my family close. Let's go. Put in work, secure the bag, and then take it back to my f. We doing another day in the life. I'm up early. First meal of the day, sardines, some water. while watching Sports Sucker. Let's get it. All right. So, today's going to be a different kind of day in the life. A lot of the times when I film day in the life, it's more of an exciting day. With this day, I'm going to show you what it's like to really run your own business and to really just work. It's still going to have fun, still going to be exciting, but you're going to really see behind the scenes of what it's like to work running a multi-million dollar business. Let's get it. About to meet one of my SAR studios right now. He made a ton of money his first year in the program. He has it been a full year, but he's a he's been a real success story, man. So, he's in town. Psych meet up to get it. All right. Yo, I'm here with two of my students, man. HTT, let's come on now, man. Listen, how much money you made in HTT so far, man. Since August, close to 80,000 since August. Since August, how many months is that? So, they know. September to like 8 months. 80,000 something like that. Yes, you made like 10k a month. Yo, come on, man. Let's go, man. Wait, how how much money you make? So, last week I made my record week. It was 4.1K. Come on, man. Let's go. And you live in Colia, too? Yeah, I just moved 2 months ago. So, it's like, you know, this should work wherever you at. How has helped you guys like build your businesses? Y all I live. It gives you the system, the blueprint, the accountability, and the culture. So, that's all you need to be successful. You get the mindset training, but then you get the system with the implementation strategy. So then it's bulletproof. You just show up and do the work. You do the work. If you're not lazy, Yeah. get the work. If you lazy, don't even n Don't even try if you lazy, man. Like nothing's going to work for you. You lazy. People think it ain't get rich quick. You got to you got to put in work. And that's why I admire y'all cuz y'all put in the work the whole time. And how's it doing it in Colia? Like is it is there a difference that you see or is the same [\h__\h] No, it's the same [\h__\h] He's like he doesn't have any Colombian clients. They have just from US and Europe, Australia. So So you making 4,000 US in Colombia? Yeah. So that's like crazy. You living like a baller. Yeah. Of course. If I didn't have a son, I would be doing like you. I'd be visiting somewhere in Latin America where the money making all the money online. It works wherever you at, man. You know what I'm saying? Money go a long way out. For sure, man. Listen. Listen, guys. If you guys want to get it like my students, you know, you seen tons of testimonials. Uh there's a free ebook called the ten commandments of online training. It show you how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a big bottle. All right, just hit the link in the description. You can download the ebook. I'm delegate. I swear. All right. All right. So, what's about to happen now is I'm going to do a live training for my students. I do a live training with them every week. And the way we start these calls off is I ask them, "Hey, how much money you made this week? How many clients you had this week? And uh let me show you some of the results I get." Uh give me some updates. Let's start with you, Miguel. We're at um 26K. 26K for the month so far. Yeah. All right. All right. We We going to step it up. We going to step it up. Oh. So far for the month we at 35K. Oh, it's looking really good, man. Leonardo, what about you? So, we got uh 20,500 so far for the month. 20,500 so far for the month. Yes, sir. Hey, that's not bad at all, man. That's amazing, right? Listen, if you want to learn how to grow your online business, too, so you start getting some money like my students, download the free ebook, Ten Commandments of online training. Link is in description and it'll walk them down in passion. show you how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a lot of spirits. All right, what's happening now is I'm about to go do a podcast. Uh somebody else's podcast. You know, they had to get the king on there, man. So, get the views up. So, I'm going to help him out right quick. Let's do it. Let's take it back for a second. So, where were you born and raised? Southside Chicago. You from Chicago, too, right? I was in Chicago for three and a half years. So, I just say I'm partly from Chicago. Okay. not from Chicago. Ah, okay. Yeah. And so mom, dad met in Chicago. They met in Chicago. They had me. You know what's funny, man? His It's just an interesting story. I mean, nobody chooses to live on the south side of Chicago cuz they rich, right? So, we grew up, you know, kind of poor. Actually, really poor. My dad, he lived with us, right? And my parents were married, but I ain't see him a lot cuz he was like busy trying to get his business started, you know, trying to get it just going, you know? He's just struggling, struggling, struggling, trying to make it work. And then fast forward a few years, I get sent away to military school for high school cuz I got in some trouble, you know, just normal [\h__\h] you know, like skipping school, fights, shootouts, you know, normal [\h__\h] Around like my second year of high school, his business started to take off, right? But this is like 16 years, more than that, right? Cuz he started before I was born and it finally started to work. He was his business by the time I graduated from high school, he was making $3 million a year. But you got to remember that was in 2000, right? So that was that would be equivalent to $8 million a year in today's money. Then I went to college, Howard University, School of Business. By the time I graduated, he had lost all the money. He [\h__\h] it all up. And then uh like a year or two after that, he committed suicide. There's a lot of lessons there, right? So one, if you're persistent, you know, you can make it, right? He How many people would have quit after the first year or the second year? But he was like 16, 17 years grinding. Finally made it work and then it worked. But the other lesson is once he started making money, he started indulging in the fruits of his labor a little bit. You not a lot, like too much. You know what I'm saying? I remember one time I came home from college, he was like, "Yeah, I just bought a Cadillac random today." I'm over here thinking, "Man, I don't know. That's a wise financial investment there." He's like, "Nah, man. We getting He never went to college. He even graduated from high school." Yeah. So, he's still like a street dude, but he [\h__\h] out. What what it told me was, "All right, once you start making money, it's like you got to keep doing what got you there." Yeah. You know, you can't take your foot off the gas cuz there ain't no amount of money you can't [\h__\h] up. All right, so the interview's over. Was this the best interview you ever did or the greatest? Seriously, this was a solid podcast. It's got to be up there. Honestly, in regard to like if I just give you the facts and the data, this is uh top two. The two podcasts I did today. Yeah, these are my top I've done 260 I think today. Oh, I read like in when this gets published, this will be like top two. Nice between you and my my guy this morning. Hey man, congratulations. See, I'm glad I could help city not tracking slacking, man. You know, man, Greg, you just moved to Miami. Moved to Miami. Got a new pad to be here. So, he I I missed Miami. It feels incredible. Come on, man. So, you know what I'm saying? I got to go full Florida. I got to get like a few pistols. Like, hey man, if you're talking to the right person, talk to the right down with man. I k them all with I can't I can't buy the brand new, but I can buy them used. So, if you get it brand new, I can buy it off you. Oh, man. I'll sell you pistols all day. All right. Right now, I'm headed to the heat gang with the homie Jeremy and one of our other boys, Eric. Y' be lit. make a promise, but I do my best. 25 Eric pulled up, you know what I'm saying, with son. You know what it is, man. We're going to check out ball and see if he can do anything tonight. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Look, I ain't about to tell you twice. We on different levels and you better get the balance right. We not to eye. We are not alike. You couldn't even be me in another life. Don't hit me on my phone. Yeah, I get back when I'm posting. They want to blackmail cuz they see I'm going post. I've been at the top since I came over. I've been in control. Yeah, it's game over. Born great. No, I ain't asked for it. Chasing the throne. I'm coming back for it. I never quit. Fing the black for it. Never hang it up. I need a black for it. Right or wrong. You can try to fake it. It won't last long. Right or wrong. I'm so [\h__\h] brutal, too. Yo, you got a different exit when you sit port side, man. You got a different exit. You can't be going out with the regular folks. You know what I'm saying? Hit it. I'm back in the crib. I got a private elevator in my apartment. Yeah, that he lost. It happened. You know what I'm saying? It was a fun game with the homies. Yo, while I was there, I met some other dudes single course side and they were online trainers. You know what I'm saying? They weren't hedge fun men. They were online trainers and they said that, you know, my my information and content and helped them out a lot to get to where they are. Listen, if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook going to help you do that. It's called the Ten Commandments of online training. Show them exactly how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you don't have a big problem, uh the link is in the description. All right? You can download it for free. for you to really give you the g how this business is ran and how you going to start getting money like I smell. Let's get it home.