If I lost everything and I was broke like you and I had to start over and get rich again, here's what I would do. I'm going to break the whole thing down in this video and you'll be able to follow this plan step by step. Even if you're not broke, maybe you're not starting from zero. You'll find where you're at in the timeline and you start following the instructions from there. If you're broke, I have to assume you don't have any high income skills because people with high income skills are in what? Demand. They are in demand. So if you're broke, you don't have high income skills. that's why you broke. Nobody wants to give you a lot of money for your talent, your work, your goods, or your services. Or this is a rare case where someone does have talents and skills and they just don't know how to market them. Step one, develop high income skill sets. And I have other videos on high- income skills. I'll give you a list of a few of them that I think will work now in 2025, 2026, and beyond. High ticket sales. If you're good at sales, you will always be in demand. Everybody I know who has a business that makes his income from high ticket sales are always looking for good closers. Nobody's ever said, "Man, I got enough rockstar closers." No entrepreneur has ever said that. So, if you're good at high ticket sales, you will always be in demand. And we are a long way from AI replacing a good closer. Another high- income skill would be coding. Learning to code, it's still a valuable skill. I know we have AI tools that can help code for you, like vibe coders and Yo, that don't be amazing. The beauty of all these vibe coding tools like Bolt, Lovable, Clawed Code, Firebase Studios is if you are a coder, man, it makes your job so much easier cuz you don't have to start from scratch. Coding now with AI is the equivalent of when producers started sampling. Before music producers started sampling other records, they used to have to have a bunch of musicians in the studio. Quissy Jones was writing the score in the sheet music for the musicians. But then we were able to start sampling, make the job way quicker. You still got to be have some talent though. Then there's project management. Project management is a high income skill set and companies are always hiring project managers to manage projects. Then there's funnel building. If you can learn how to build funnels andor websites, AI has can't replace a good funnel builder or a good website builder yet, but it can make your job way easier. The next high income skill is media buying. So if you know how to run ads on Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok, if you're really good at that, you're always in demand. AI is not even trying to replace that right now. If anything, AI is making that job easier if you're good at it. I mean, the next high- income skill would be being a AI specialist. These are people who are prompt engineers, AI agent builders. Companies actually hire these people to help build or run their AI infrastructures. I know people who do that for a living and they get paid a lot of money by different businesses. Another one would be software engineering. You are a good software engineer means start to finish a full stack software engineer. You can make a lot of money man. It could be with your own business your own software or you're getting paid to build software. Or data science that's slept on. Data science is another high- income skill. Then there's video editing. Video editing is a high income skill. Or coaching. At all these high income skills, coaching probably has the lowest barrier of entry. All you got to do is be able to help somebody who doesn't know about something. I would pick coaching again if I was starting from zero. The reason being is because that's how I started when I was at zero. I started online coaching, helping people get in shape online. And I built a multi- sevenfigure business doing it. Like first I started making a few,000 a month, then $10,000 a month, then 20 at, you know, I was able to scale that, you know. And then I started getting employees and people working for me and taking it to the next level. So that's what I would do because it's the lowest barrier of entry. But you can pick any of these skill sets. So that's step one. Figure out what highinccome skill you want to master. If you are interested in coaching, especially online coaching, I'm going give you a free resource where you can jump on where I'm going to teach you live how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you're just starting out, even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you're not certified, I'm going to break down the whole business from start to finish. is going to be live this Wednesday, 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time. Hit the link in the description and sign up for the class. All right, I'm going to teach you everything there is to know. I'm not even going to sell you anything after it, and I'm going stay on as long as I can to answer all of your questions. Now, step two is taking time to master one of these high income skills. There's a lot of free resources for all of these skills online. It's probably better if you pay, you broke. So, take advantage of all those free resources there are. There's free ones and there's cheap ones. I mean, utilize AI to help you learn it. Each one of these skills, there's free resources or inexpensive resources. Then as much time as you can really getting good at these things. Now that we got the skills, step three, we have to turn this into money. You can try to get hired. And that's going to revolve around you posting your resume on LinkedIn and whatever other job sites there are. Or you can start your own business in each one of these domains. And here's how you go about that. First thing you do is you find between five and 10 people that you can help for free. You say, "Hey, listen. I'm going to help you with this for free in exchange for testimonials." When I teach my my online training students this, we call it the testimonial harvest. This is for people who don't have a lot of experience, never did this before. First thing we need to do is need to get them some testimonials. So, you're going to help some of these people for free. So, you might be coding for someone for free. You might be building AI agents for someone for free. You might do project management or data analytics for a company for free in exchange for testimonials. You could do it for a month. The reason you need between five and 10 is because when people don't pay, they don't pay attention. So, a lot of these people are going to fall off and not take you seriously cuz you ain't put up no cash. It just be like that sometimes. About half the people are going to fall off if you're doing coaching. But you don't need all of them. You just need half. You want to really go hard to help them accomplish whatever goal they want to accomplish, right? And then you get a testimonial from them. Written testimonial and a verbal testimony. You know, you could just get a verbal testimonial on transcribe it. You're going to get a verbal video testimonial from these people. And once you have that, now you move on to to the next step when you start using those testimonials for your marketing to market your business or you use it for your resume. If you trying to get a job, maybe you did some projects for some people and now you have references, right? Either way, it's for your own business or for references. And this is when you start marketing yourself online, right? If you're trying to get a job, then again, it's Indeed Monster. But even if it's your own business, depending on what your thing is, you can go on Fiverr, Upwork. If you're trying to do online coaching, then you just go to social media. Instagram is where my students make the most money. And Facebook, people still on Facebook, man, and they still spending money on Facebook. And you start marketing, use your testimonials as your marketing. Boom. Then you start getting your first paid clients. And that's exactly what I would do. And if I followed this, I'd be making money in between 60 and 90 days. And if you already have the skill sets, if you're already good at things, you can skip that step. If you already know what you want to do, you can skip that step. Boom. Go get the testimonials, start, start marketing. If you want to learn how to do this in the online fitness industry, that's how I made my first million. I'm doing a live training this Wednesday at 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time where I'll show you exactly how to do that. I'm going to break down the whole business for you and I'm going stay on after to answer all your questions. Click that link in the description. Sign up now. All right.