You ain't got no discipline. That's why you watching this. In this video, I'm going to break down some extreme ways for you to become more disciplined. Because if you can become more disciplined, you'll take your life to the next level. You'll accomplish more. Somebody's going to listen to this and they're going to think, "Man, that's too much. I don't want to do that. That's too much. Oh, I can't believe that. I know you can't do it." That's how you ended up with watching a video on how to become more disciplined cuz you ain't got no discipline. But if you can become more disciplined, nothing within reason that you can't accomplish. Discipline is the number one reason why I became a multi-millionaire. Discipline is the number one reason I was able to get in amazing shape. And lack of discipline is the number one reason why the average American is 17 lbs overweight. Lack of discipline is the reason the average American has less than $1,000 in the bank account. While everything I say in this video might sound extreme, you need to understand the opposite of extreme is regular. Regular gets you 17 lbs overweight, less than $1,000 in your bank account. Fat lossers, right? So, if you want to accomplish something different than average, you might have to do something that's different than average. And that's what this video is all about. Now, before I get into the things you need to do to become more disciplined, we need to just dispel some of the beliefs. So, a lot of the guys in the manosphere, they'll say stuff like you need to make your bed to become more disciplined. They'll say you need to do no fat. None of that stuff will hurt you, but it's like I rather you focus on the stuff that will really move the needle in your life. Discipline is a finite resource. So you don't want to waste it on [\h__\h] Oh, I got to make my bed. I got to do all this other [\h__\h] It's like I've read hundreds and hundreds of books on personal development, discipline, and and biographies from successful people, billionaires. Not one of them said, "Yo, man, the moment I stopped masturbating, that's when everything changed." That [\h__\h] is the equivalent of male astrology. I'm not saying it's bad thing to stop touching yourself. Do whatever you want. We want to focus on the things that will really move the needle in your life. Because if you do the enough of the right things, you will succeed regardless of how much you masturbate or how often you make your bed. And it's very important cuz the first thing you need to do when it comes to discipline is you have to manage it. Discipline is like a battery. You start off with a full battery of discipline throughout the day. The more you use your discipline, the more you drain your battery. And then by the end of the day, if you use all your discipline on [\h__\h] then you won't have anything left to accomplish things you really want to accomplish. That's why at the end of the day, people start [\h__\h] snacking, eating candies and cake like a child, and then instead of working on their goals and playing caller warfare, smoking weed. Here's a study that showed that exerting effort or controlling impulses or behavior leaves a person depleted and less able to engage in subsequent rounds of regulation. effort induced depletion, right? So, we don't want to waste our discipline doing [\h__\h] We want to really focus our discipline on the things that have moved the needle. Sometimes they call this ego depletion or decision fatigue. So, what we want to do is limit the amount of decisions that you have to make per day. Every time you make a decision or do something, you use a little bit of your discipline. Here's another study that corroborates that. Making choices impairs subsequent self-control, a limited resource. What we want to do is we want to have habits and that we kind of automate in our life. If you follow me on Instagram, you may notice that most of the time I'm wearing the same [\h__\h] cuz I just throw that on when I wake up. It's almost like the uniform. It's like a green stringer, Lululemon pants, black Air Force Ones. That way I don't have to think about what I'm wearing. I can use my discipline on things that are important, right? Because more decisions. So, I limit my decisions. I eat the same thing almost every day. I start off with two cans of sardines, maybe some protein shakes later. Later on in the day, I eat another breakfast. My girl cooks a breakfast for me. And this is way I don't have to think about this kind of stuff. I don't make my bed or clean my house. Not because I'm not disciplined, because I want to save my discipline. Now, I'm rich, right? So, I hire people to do that [\h__\h] You may not be at that point yet, but even when I was broke, man, I ain't spend I don't remember spending my time or energy or thoughts on making my bed or silly [\h__\h] right? Cuz you just want to save your discipline. Again, discipline is like a battery. So, I'm only focusing on things that'll move the needle. And I'll ignore almost everything else. And the next thing you want to do is build routines. What I do is not only do I build routines, but I plan out every hour of every day in my calendar. Now I don't have to decide what to do each day. My day is choreographed and I know exactly what's going to happen. Remember, making choices impairs subsequent self-control, a limited resource. So once I've planned every hour of everything in my calendar, now I just knocking out the task. I don't have to think about what to do next. I just execute. Planning every hour of every day in your calendar will also just help you utilize time better so you can accomplish more in a week than most people accomplish in a month. I have whole videos on that. But if nothing else, I don't have to decide what to do next. It's all laid out for me. Another thing you need to do is manage your glucose levels. You can't outdisipline biology. Biology is always going to win. I don't care how disciplined you are or think you are. Biology is always going to win. But there are ways to manipulate your biology so you have more discipline at your disposal. And one of the things is to control your glucose levels. So let me show you this study. The physiology of willpower linking blood glucose to self-control. And basically what this study says is when your glucose levels are all over the place, especially when they get too low, when they're not stable, you have less self-control. When I first learned about this, I was doing intermittent fasting, 16- hour fast every day. So, I wouldn't eat anything until around 300 p.m. One thing that I noticed was I was getting so much done during the fast. Anyone who's done intermittent fasting, they'll tell you that, man, they get so much more done during that time when they're fasting. But what I did was I would try to get everything I could done before 3 cuz once I started to eat food, it seems like I would have like a crash and I wouldn't get much done after that. But the reason that happens is when you're fasting, your glucose levels are are are more stable when you start eating food, especially carbohydrates. carbohydrates convert into glucose or glycogen. That's fine. But when your glucose levels go above 110, your pancreas secretes a hormone called insulin. And insulin's job is to flush out the excess glucose so you don't die. People with type 1 diabetes, they have to inject insulin because their bodies don't make it when their glucose levels get too high, right? If you're a healthy person and your body just does that. The problem is insulin is indiscriminate. So it'll flush out as much glucose as it can because it thinks your body needs survive. The problem with that now your glucose levels start to dip. So they spike and dip and this causes lethargy. This is one of the reasons people get tired after they eat. And that's what I noticed what will happen after I broke the fast. Then when I went on the ketogenic diet, my glucose levels remain super stable and I had the same amount of energy when I was fasting all day. The most extreme thing you can do is to go keto like me. I've been keto for 8 years. What I would suggest if you want to get real extreme is to wear a continuous glucose monitor for a month and see how different foods affect your glucose levels. Because if you can keep them stable throughout the day, you'll have more energy and you'll have more discipline. I know that sounds extreme, but you clicked on a video called extreme ways to be more disciplined. This is extreme and it really works. It's that it's science behind this. Some things that will help you stabilize your glucose levels, even if you're eating carbs. If you're going to eat carbs, make sure you always eat carbs with protein. Keep your glucose levels more in check. Another thing you can do, first thing you eat is a salad. So, put like a bed of greens in your stomach by eating that first, then eat the carbs and the protein and that will significantly lower the the glucose response. Another thing you can do is when you eat, take a cinnamon pill. Cinnamon is known to stabilize glucose levels. And probably the best thing you can do is go for a walk 10 to 20 minutes after you eat, especially some carbs, right? And what that does is you'll burn off the excess glucose before it signals your pancreas to secrete insulin because that insulin response is what's going to make you tired. Just try it for a week. And I highly suggest you get the continuous glucose monitor and start seeing how these things affect you. Now, for me, when I wore the continuous glucose monitor, it thought I was fasting every day. The app thought ask me every day if I was fasting because I'm I'm keto and it just kept it super stable. You don't have to do that. There's other benefits of keto outside of just this. And it's not just for body composition either. Like the main reason I do keto is for this reason. I'm way more focused and I get way more done now than I'm on keto, right? I was in great shape when I ate carbs, too. It's not it's not for body composition. It's for the mental benefits. Now, I have a whole another video on this and I'll put the link in the description. You should go watch that. Now, hey,