Heat up here. Yo, what up? It's your man, Big Brandon Carter. I want to talk to y'all about grocery shopping. You you you build abs in the kitchen, not in the weight room. You know what I'm talking about? So, your diet is going to account for about 70% of your progress, man. If you're not eating right, you might as well just stop this fitness You might as well just uh stop working out. Turn off these YouTube videos right now, man. Just give up if you're not going to eat right. But if you are going to eat right, let me show you how to grocery shop. How you should plan your trips to the grocery store. When you do, it's a lot more fiscally conservative to buy your own groceries as opposed to always eating Chipotle all day. You know what I'm saying? $10 burritos and So, what I do is I go to the grocery store and I make it real simple, man. As soon as I enter, I only shop around the perimeter of the grocery store. I never go through the aisles. The aisles is where you'll find all the cookies and cakes and processed food and all the that makes you fat and doesn't help you put on muscle, man. All the that that'll rob you of your gains. Rob you of the sweet gains you've been making in the gymnasium. When I go in, man, first when you go in any grocery store, you're going to see the produce. You're going to see the goddamn fruit. You're going to see the vegetables, man. Get as much of that as you can. This should be the cornerstone of your trip, man. A lot of people, not a lot of people who trying to put on muscle mass or get ripped, they neglect the fruits and vegetables. It's about health. It's not just about looking good. It's not just about aesthetics or power and strength. It's about overall health. And that's why you need the good fruits and vegetables. You keep going around the perimeter, you're going to hit the dairies and the meats, man. Stock up on the meats, man. Stock up on the meats. I like beef more than anything. Pause. Pause. I like Let me Let me reframe that. I like cow meat more than anything. Pause. I like to eat cows more than anything, you know? Like, that's my thing. I like to eat cows. So, I'm getting all the red meat I can, but I also like chicken wings. I I I have a video on how I like to prepare chicken wings. I bake them instead of frying them. So, like they're they're still healthy. You don't get all that uh transsaturated fat and everything. uh like when you fry them. But uh I don't a lot of lot of a lot of guys will tell you they eat a bunch of chicken breast every day. I'm not a real chicken breast kind of guy. Man, that sounds I don't know. That's more for women. Chicken breasts are more for women. I eat cows and I eat chicken wings for the most part. That's that's like where I'm getting most of my protein from. I also eat then you go you get your eggs. Eggs are great protein. Don't worry about the cholesterol. The cholesterol actually helps boost your testosterone levels. I have a video on how to naturally boost your testosterone. Cholesterol is actually considered uh a steroid. You know what I'm saying? A natural steroid. So, there's that. You can tolerate milk. If you're not lactose intolerant, get milk, man. Milk is real good for putting on that muscle mass. Milk is real good for putting on that muscle mass, man. This body is 90% milk. Most people 90% water. I'm 90% milk, man. It doesn't really matter, but I know you're going to ask. I like skim milk. And that's all you really need. The other only other things only things I would go to the aisles for is maybe seasonings. I like li seasoned salt. I like Goya sa. I like uh adobo. Uh oh, you know what? And you know what else? I also go in the I also go down the aisles. I'll get um olive oil to cook with. That's the oil I prefer. And I get oatmeal. I like oatmeal. Oatmeal you'll find in the aisles. And I like brown rice. You'll find it in the aisles. Those are the only excuse to go down the aisles. Oh, and cat food. You know, I got to get cat food for uh Gangster George. For gangster George, man. You know, that dude likes to eat. He likes to eat like his dad. He eats big like his dad. That's about it, man. That's how I grocery shop every time. That's how I game planet, you know. But anyway, I hope that helps, man. Put on get you get you the right food so you can put on the right amount of muscle mass and you can get ripped, get cut. Get the side abs. You know what I'm saying? You ain't going to get these side abs. These obliques eating cookies and cakes. Get it from this side, fool. You got to put in the work, fam. You know what I'm saying? I live my life kind of like a predator. So, I kind of like to eat like a predator.