Yo, what up? What up? It's your man, Big Brandon Carter. So, a lot of people ask me, uh, a lot of young guys say, "Man, how do I get involved in the fitness industry?" Or they want to be, uh, YouTube fitness celebrities or Facebook, Instagram, uh, fitness guys. And that's cool. That's cool. The only thing that bothers me is a lot of times they're not trainers because you don't want to just be a fitness guy. You want to be a trainer. You actually want to help people get results. At least I do it. I would hope that's what you mean when you say that. Not I hope you don't mean that you just want to be a celebrity or you just want validation from the world cuz that's whack. Uh hopefully your goal is to really help people accomplish their fitness goals. So in order to do that, I think it's imperative step one that you get certified. Like be a real certified personal trainer. It's important that you get certified so you can actually help people and so you know what you're talking about. I actually have a partnership with NASM. So, if you click the link below in the description, you can get a free 14-day trial where you get access to all their material and see if you want to join them. I think NASM is probably the best and for instance, I got certified with a different certification uh program when I first wanted to become a trainer and I tried to get a job at gym at certain gyms and certain gyms was like, "Ah, yeah, that certification is not what's up, man. you got a basic certification? And I would ask him, well, what certification is preferred? And NASOM kept coming up over and over and over again. You know, it's kind of the industry standard, right? So, if you want a 14-day trial, check it out. Links in the description. So, now after you're certified, what you want to do is I think you should get a job. Like, just go get a job at a big gym, right? because you're going to get be able to train a lot of clients, a lot of people, and then you'll get volume at a big gym cuz they'll actually give clients to you. Okay? The reason that's important is just because you can get yourself in shape or your goofy friends in shape does not mean you can take another person and get them in shape. Because everyone's different. Everyone has different goals, different body types, age, metabolism. Once you've trained a large sample size of people, then you'll have both competence and confidence to go out and train anyone. I always advise that people do that for at least a year. That way, it's think of it as training. Think of you're training yourself to be a great trainer. Now, the problem is a lot of these big gyms, you know, they they take a large slice of your money, but it's cool because you'll get the experience. They bring a ton of clients to you, right? Dude, when when most of you guys were wearing diapers, crawling around, watching Teletubbies and Barney, I was training 10 people a day. Then you want to tell me, I don't know what I'm talking about. I digress. So, once you've done that for a certain amount of time, you want to really start getting some money. Make some money. All right. Now, you start doing your own clients, private clients, uh, not in the gym, right? You don't That's a That's a That's a jerk move. Okay. And so you want to do you want to train people start building private clients. We can go like to their homes or their apartment gyms if listen if you have a gym in your apartment. You know, you might have to check with your building or whatever, but you can train people there and that that's perfect. I actually invested in equipment in my home and I was training people at home. Now, if you want to do that, you you there's some insurance you might want to get because when you work at a gym, uh you're they're covered under their insurance, but you're liable for everyone when you do that. Uh when you start training people your own, you actually have to treat it like a business. So, you might want to get a corporation. Then you can start taking credit card payments, you know, PayPal, Chase, Quick Pay, whatever, and the IRS won't start breathing down your back. or you want to get a corporation, get get accounted, that's beyond the scope of this video, but I'd like you to take those steps sooner than later because I made the mistake of not doing it. And you know, IRS is like, "Hey man, where all this money coming from? Where's all this money coming from?" And I had to It ended up being an issue for me. It's handled now, but I'm just saying I don't want you to go through that. It's a cautionary tale. But I don't want you to start training people oneonone because these are going to be higherend clients. So I don't want you to start doing that until you've been training in a big gym for a while and you have the experience and the sample size of training lots of different kind of people, right? That way you have the confidence to say, "Yeah, I'll train anyone. I get anyone in shape." But that takes experience. Now, the upside of having your own clients is you don't have to gym dig in your pockets. So you get to actually make more money and you can charge less. you can charge the client less and you can make more. And if you do it in your home or the the gym in your building or something like that or even in the park or whatever, people are coming to you, you know, people come to you. That's that's how you want to get it. Now, you there still might be cases where you would go to other people. When I was training some guys in the NFL, I would have to go up to Connecticut and train them, but it was it was worth it. And then once you've done all that, then you can start a fitness YouTube page. All right? Then you can start trying to sell your programs. I listen, you don't have to go in that order, but I think it's it's it's important that you do because then you're you're not just you're not just saying what works for you or just work for your homies. You know, you you've done this with a large amount of people. You have like a legit confidence. is that you're not just a hot guy with abs because that doesn't mean you can get results for others, right? So, spend a year working spend a year or two just working on your craft. I mean, you can start a YouTube page and all that stuff before if you want, but if you're not like a a real personal trainer, then you don't get a lot of respect for me from me, right? I respect you as a guy, you're in great shape, or you make cool videos or have a cool anything team, but as a trainer, if you can't take any person from out of crowd and make him or her look different in 90 days, then you're not a trainer. You're just a guy who works out. And that's the approach I took even building my business because I had that experience. uh you know, we're starting to branch out and have other athletes promote our brand and I make them get certified. You can't just be uh a guy with abs or a girl with with a big butt and a slim waist, like you have to be a trainer. So, even uh my home girl Deja, you know, mentoring her, I made her go through the NASM training. I made her go through the NASM training because it's the industry standard. She had a hard time doing it, but you know, she made it happen. All right, Deja, congratulations on getting your NASM certification. Thank you. What was what was it like getting certified with? It was I mean, the end result is amazing. But the first two times I took the test was extremely hard for me just because I didn't have any prior knowledge of anything to do with fitness. So, I definitely learned a lot and I'm so happy that I still kept going and I took the test for the third time and passed it. Nice. Now, Deja, you had some struggles to pass and they said you didn't pass it the first time, right? The first two times. Holy Yeah, cuz it's a difficult test. Like, you know, I I wanted you to get it because it was the it's I think it's the best. Yeah. But it's also the most difficult. The test for me was extremely hard just because I didn't have any prior knowledge of anything to do with fitness. I was a complete newbie, but uh now that I'm p I passed and all that stuff, like I know so much more than I would ever thought I would. Getting certified through NASA will definitely impact my career in an extremely great way just because I feel like it really taught me so many things about fitness that maybe other certification programs won't teach you. And just the name alone, if you just tell somebody you're NASM certified, they will completely give you their respect just because of the name also. And not only that, Bella, she recently got uh her certification as well, man. So, it's it's like I could have just said, "Hey, hey, Bella, go shake your butt on the screen in front of the camera so we can get this money." Nope. That wouldn't work out. It wouldn't Well, it would have worked, but I certain I wanted the our brand to have a certain amount of integrity, right? And then and you learned a lot, you know, getting your Yeah. getting your certification. It's like, so basically, she could have just been one of these Instagram girls selling uh selling fit tea in and protein world, you know, uh just putting the what do they do? They put the they put on their butt. Oh, I love my my new preworkout, you know. Look at my new leggings, you know. But I wanted her to be a a real like a real trainer and be a certified trainer. Yeah, a certified trainer. Yeah, you can do you you're going to do that. Make no mistake, we going to have rebellion on the butt, but I want people to actually trust your advice, you know, and I and I don't want and I don't want you out there embarrassing me saying something wrong. So, we had her certified, too, and she passed it. Great job. Thank you. You should do the same. If you're interested in becoming a personal trainer, I definitely definitely recommend NASA. Uh, click the link in the description. Uh, I have a partnership with them. So, you can get free free trial of all the material. See if it's for you. Or maybe you ain't built like this. Maybe you ain't built like this. But, you know, you never know till you find out. All right. Please.