 pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri pri Fazio, he's known on Twitter as cold email wizard. And Fazio had said that he found this credit-based LLM. LLM stands for large language model for all those who don't know. It's just all these AI models like chat GPTs and LLM, Gemini, Claude, those kind of things. He said he found a credit-based LLM. And I was like, what's that mean? And the promise of it was so sick how he articulated it. He was like, well, when you upload excessive documentation into tools that are flat monthly rate AI models, chat, Gemini, Claude is common examples. You are getting an efficient, consumed version of that documentation by the model. And it's not actually consuming all the training material that you put into it. Right, because it's incentivized to save as many tokens as possible. Yeah, because you're on a flat monthly rate. Why would it want to absolutely exploit the living shit out of itself? It wouldn't. It would exclusively want to optimize around its own efficiency while still trying to help you generate whatever outcomes you wanted and keep you satisfied so you keep paying that monthly rate. So moral of the story, all of this, by the way, this is also important to note right now, like these whole $200 a month plans for the highest tier versions of all this stuff, this is all subsidized by venture capital dollars. Yeah. You remember back in the day when Uber and Lyft were coming out? You remember it was like a couple bucks to earn? Yeah, yeah, super cheap. Now it's like that same drive costs like $50. That's because back then it was subsidized by VC dollars. There's a very high probability, unless the technology profoundly progresses and makes the actual use of these things more efficient, that these are all going to absolutely grow in cost. For sure. After they're no longer subsidized by VCs. Yeah, that was something. Yeah, I've been thinking about that a lot. Okay, so moral of the story, from that same perspective, if the original, like the big models, Chad, Claude, Gemini are all these efficient models. And I'm talking, when I say upload documentation into it, I'm saying, imagine you want to take every single sales call recording that your organization's ever had, take it and dump it into one of these models and ask it some questions. Like do some sales management analysis and tell me the number one area where objections get brought up that my marketing can handle and account for ahead of the call, or I need to train my salespeople around. That's like a common one I can think of that would take a ton of data. You would have an issue with that in the flat monthly rate model. So when Manus was first introduced to me by my inner circle member, Daniel, he had said it's a credit-based LLM, which meant its incentive was using tokens, not saving tokens. What he found was instead of these like summarized versions that were consumed by the models, he could dump all of that data. Or like, again, imagine every single one of those sales calls being dumped in there. And then you ask it like how to come up with a perfect VSL after you throw several videos of VSL how-tos and SOPs from guys like me. And like you come up with a perfect VSL. In Manus, the logic was pretty simple. It was a credit-based LLM. So it would actually consume it all. And then it would give you an exponentially better answer and out as a result. And so Manus had two modes when it first came out. It had this standard like language model mode that you would interface with in chat or things like that. And then it had this version called agent mode, which also those other platforms have too, to be fair. And agent mode was really cool. It was the first time I was introduced to an agent. It essentially meant anything that you could do at a computer in a web browser at that time, an agent could do. And then for some reason, they rolled back agent mode. And they made it so I couldn't just select agent mode anymore. And they made it so they had this like- That's the Facebook body. Around that time. Yeah. Right before that. Right around that period of time, they made it so essentially the normal chat mode and the agent mode were combined. And like it would determine for you when which one would be the best. And I hated that because I found even for the simplest use cases, the agent mode was still far better for output. So that pissed me off enough. And I had enough money to go and find the best AI devs that I could, like the most skilled people I knew. And I told them a really simple task. I shouldn't say really simple. It took a long time. I said I wanted to clone Manus' agent mode. And then I wanted to beef it up and make it niche specific for just the best sales and marketing outcomes that I could generate with it. And we came up with a tool. We call it Utari. So U-T-A-R-I. Utari. I've been saying Utari this whole time. You can call it whatever the fuck you want. I'll let the market decide how to call it. I call it Utari. Long story short, it's like it's just Manus' agent mode. But it's beefed up because I have an excessive amount of training material. I have three dozen plus SOPs. I've got thousands of hours. Of training material for these call recordings. They're all just scaled marketing and business and sales advice. In addition to that, we already had the power of all of these different models accessible to us. We use on the background of Utari, most recently, Claude's Opus 4.6 model. And we'll update that to whatever the most recent Claude models are or whatever else comes out that's better than that eventually. That's the main functional user interface that you have with it. But in agent mode specifically, we just added all of this additional specialized skill knowledge on top of it. We connected it to tens of thousands of different integrations, which are just apps and software and APIs that you can interface it with. And then we functionally created it to give the user the ability to essentially edit the instructions of each agent. This is where it gets a little more complex. Instead of just having one broad agent to do random shit for you, we created the ability. We call it a worker. You can create a worker, which is, again, just an agent that has specific knowledge, specific instructions, specific functionality. And you can go back and use that again and again and again and again. So you can have a worker, as an example, that just creates VS sales for you. A worker that just specializes in webinar slides. A worker that's just your sales manager that every time a fucking new sales call happens, it weighs it against your database of all your historical best sales calls, work sales calls, sales training calls. And says what specifically needs to be trained on here. What prevented this deal. Gives the owner unbiased feedback. Gives the sales management feedback that they need to go and improve their staff with. Gives the sales rep feedback. Can do things like update CRMs. It's really cool, all the different individual sales and marketing use cases we've seen. But at the end of the day, I just want to be really clear. The coolest part about it and getting into this, no matter what tool you use, whether it's mine or any of these other ones, right now is when it's all subsidized by VC dollars. Now it's cheaper. Exactly. Now it's the most cost-effective time to technically integrate it and get good with it. Now it's the time where it's going to be the cheapest that it takes to go and use the tech, have businesses hire you to use this tech and essentially deploy it with them. Use it in your own businesses. And eventually, you should try to latch on to this. It should be able to, and this is the whole premise of it, get you richer as a result of using it for the right use cases. And then as a result of you making more money through these tools that are all currently subsidized, you'll eventually be able to afford the usage of them when they're no longer subsidized. Because there'll be a gap in the future. Yeah. There will be a gap in the future where all these things make so much sense to use and there'll be so much more data out about them from how it makes sense and the use cases and how people are using it. But the cost won't be the same as what it was when they were all subsidized by VC dollars. So the barrier to entry will slowly, as time goes on, continue to increase unless the opposite is true, which is somehow the tech just compounds to a point where it becomes far more efficient, cost effective, and they choose not to raise rates. But I don't know if you're familiar with this. Has there been a company that as time has gone on, they've lowered their cost of their goods as their technology has gotten cheaper in comparison to raising it? I can't think of maybe. The only one I think of is TVs. 8K TVs came out and 4K TVs are like pretty much free now. I actually saw this today, 10 years ago. The cheapest Apple computer you could buy is more than the cheapest one you can buy now. The cheapest one now is way cheaper. It's like computers logically with hardware. And again, software costs like this technically correlates to hardware because that's where companies like NVIDIA come in with all their crazy AI tech and these data centers that people are building. But that's kind of the thing. You'd assume in the short term that these things get more costly before they would technically have the opportunity to collapse because you have obviously all these data center costs. There's huge amounts of money that are going into these things right now. And that also would logically need to be paid for by somebody. And I would imagine it's going to be paid for by the consumers putting that money back into the investors pockets because they're not risking money for no reason. Anyway, I sure hope that doesn't become the case because it's going to create a hell of a divide in terms of classes if tech does actually become more costly rather than less costly. But anyway, back to my point. I got in on this game because I just got pissed off that Manus rolled back agent mode. Let us see it. Can we see it? Yeah. Check this out. So this is the interface here. So once you get logged in, this is how it works. Just to be clear, once you actually get logged into Utari, you have the ability to interface with it right away with the default Utari agent. The default Utari agent is sweet. This would be like the equivalent of Manus' default agent mode. If you just used this, you'd still have a good time with the tool and it's fucking sweet. But the power of it is where you go over here to this little worker section and you create a new worker. Okay. So when you actually go to create a new worker, this is where you have to go into it thinking with a specific use case. Okay. So on Utari, we do have, if you go down here to the bottom left, all kinds of little things that we're starting to add under the support section. And then on the main page as well, we're adding like an entire blog and use case just to show people what people ideate. But the main thing you want to do is essentially just understand it like this. Because if you want to be more on the cutting edge of it, you have to know how to think with it. If you don't know how to think with it, you're not going to have a good time. Because you're going to have to then rely on things like a blog to tell you what to do. Or a random use case tutorial to tell you what to do. In comparison, if you can actually unlock, this is the people who, because the tech's already there. And these are the people who are likely to make the most off of this. Are the thinkers who can actually like connect the shit before anybody else just tells them what to do. I have a real good video on my YouTube channel where I talk about first movers versus second movers versus third movers versus fourth stage movers. Think about this. Are you familiar with Myron Gold? Yeah. Myron has this lesson that he shares when he's talking about his pre-pitch. And it's a stage lesson. It's an on-stage selling lesson. He gets up and he holds up a $100 bill, a $50 bill, a $20 bill, a $10 bill, and a $5 bill. In case you got five bills all together. And he asks for five volunteers from the audience. And he tells everybody, you know, these five volunteers come up on stage and just stand behind them. Okay. And then he starts telling a story about first movers advantage. And he'll sit there and he'll start explaining, you know, back in the day when the United States was just getting discovered and everybody was colonized on the East Coast in order to go out West. There's a lot of opportunity. Are you familiar with what's called homesteading land? You ever heard of that? No. So I have a cousin. She married into this. There's a family that has 60,000 acres in Montana that they essentially got for free. Because all you had to do back in the day was just go out West, claim a piece of land as yours and make it productive. Okay. Which could have meant all kinds of things apparently. Yeah. 60,000 acres might sound like a ton, right? That's like point something of Montana's total land matter. And there's guys out there that have, without exaggeration, millions of acres of land, hundreds of thousands of acres of land that they were able to homestead without a cost. They just had to make it productive. Yeah. Take the risk to go out West and start the process of essentially creating civilization across this United States. Okay. That fucking awesome or what? Yeah. It's like that's called first movers advantage. That's the person who chose to go do that first. Now the person who does that second, there might be less desirable land available to them in Montana, but there might be land still available. Maybe that person only got 500 acres. Right. And then the third wave of people that heard about that happened and they got to go out there and maybe they got a nice little 15 acre patch of land. That's still nice. Right. Three 15 acres. It's like, then the fourth person who comes along, they, maybe they get an acre. Right. And then it's a less desirable acre at that. And the fifth person who comes along, like they're going to get fuck all. And again, they still get a little something. Maybe they get like a little hack at half acre somewhere. You know, you still get to build a nice little chunk of land in the middle of fucking nowhere. Right. In this example, he then says he holds up his hundred dollar bill and he says to the audience, the person who takes action first, they have the highest probability to earn the most. And he just keeps repeating that point until one of those five people comes up and snatches them. He reiterates the lesson with the $50. He's like, the person who took action second, like, yeah, they didn't get a couple million acres, but like they did pretty well for themselves. Right. And like, again, somebody comes rushing up because now everybody else behind them understands the game and they all go faster. Right. And then everybody in the audience, when the last guy comes up and only gets the $5, the lowest denomination he gave out, everybody in the audience starts to laugh at that guy and they start making fun of him. Yeah. And then, you know, a mind system. What do you think? He looks at him on. He goes, he goes, yeah, well, you guys are all laughing, but you know who sat here and just watched everybody and didn't make anything. Yeah. He goes, you guys, you know, so he's like, so, so to be clear and tie this all to my point where we're at in this tech right now is to the point where, yeah, don't get me wrong. Like I go on Twitter and I jump on YouTube here and there. Like I see like random ass use cases for platforms like these. Right. But dude, the things that like I do with it and the things that some of my inner circle members do with it and the things that creative people who just understand the tech and are able to think with it, do with it. Those are technically the first movers that have the most upside and opportunity right now. And like most things, it is true what most people think. People are not readily sharing all of the most powerful use cases out there in the public because they want to have a cutting edge that nobody else has. They want to have a competitive edge that makes more than other people and they're going to safeguard it. So the things that I've generally seen as like use cases shared out there, I won't be biased, but I can't stress enough. Like you have to know how to think with this shit. You don't know how to think with it. You're going to have a bad time. Yeah. I don't know how to think with it. I don't know how to think with it. I don't know how to think with it. I don't know how to think with it. I don't know how to think with it.