I am here in my boy Derek Moneyberg's amazing new what is this? A media studio, podcast studio, garage studio. Yeah, kitchen. Palace. It's an extension of the Palis. You built this in your garage. And this garage is better than most people's homes. All right. For sure. Objectively true. And you got the cars in the background, the Mayback, the new Phantom. Then you got the, you know, when you want to be low-key. Yeah. The Alpena. Yeah. They don't even know what an Alpena is. Normal person. Normal person, but the Alpena is like the top of the line, best best BMW you can buy. It's like actually that's the fastest vehicle of the three as far as like a sports performance vehicle. I'm not a big car guy, but as far as a sports performance vehicle, that Alpena back there has got uh like 631 horsepower. Yeah. 0 to 60 and uh 3.9, I think. really twin turbo blah blah blah blah blah kind of fancy. Okay, excluding the cars, how much did you spend on this whole studio like turning the garage into a studio? Uh, a little over 1.3 less than 1.4 1.3 something million million. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Why was that so important to you to have the the studio space? Cuz you have another studio upstairs. Why was it so important to build this one? I thought it was fun to have a second studio. I I was interested in this space uh in the building and then it wasn't exactly for sale but I kind of made it for sale and then I wanted to renovate it to to look you know like uh like the palace upstairs you know like my gym like my combat center like my other studio I wanted to have that that same look and feel inside. So, um, yeah, when I when the opportunity came up, I'm like, I think this is a good time to make that property available for sale. Yeah. And then purchase it. And then I wanted to redesign it exactly how I wanted to, you know. All right. Go. Is this the first interview? Are we like christening it this now? Right. It might be the first interview. Sure. It's the first one. Let's go. You know, but it makes a lot of sense for you cuz you have like a lot of highlevel people like around you, working with you, like top athletes. Well, you know, I found um I mean really you you gave me a lot of guidance about fitness, nutrition, um you know, how how to live a you know, optimal lifestyle. Thank you. Uh you know, live your best life, man. So, I think um I got to give family Carter credit for that. Uh you know, we know each other like 10 years. I think in August it's going to be 10 years we met. About 10 years. Yeah. So, a couple months it'll be 10 years ago we met. And um yeah, I I was always pretty strong. I was into lifting up some weights and stuff, but I was kind of a fatty for a while. And uh yeah, so over time I I just wanted to make like if you know if I It sounds so cocky to say, but it's true. Is I thought like, well, you're only going to be alive one time, man. So like why don't we do everything the the best we could make it. Yeah. Like why don't we have the best best life you could have? And I thought, well, what what would that look like? Like what would like a superhero Yeah. SLS supervillain life look like kind of like well you know I should be you know I was already smart I went to uh yeah I didn't start out this way but I went to the best schools you grew up in Chicago I went to University of Chicago for grad school after uh being a deer elect youth having plenty of little troubles and setbacks in life I went to Chicago for went to the best business schools in our country best business school in the world um I'm strong I got bodybuilding coaches help with my strength. You know, you've helped me with different things of fitness over the years. I got a lot of MMA coaches or like the top the top top MMA fighters and, you know, jiu-jitsu practitioners in the world. Um, a whole the whole roster of many Hall of Famers and current world champions, former world champions, they come train with me. So, help me out a lot. And I I just think anything that you could be great at, why not do that, man? Oh yeah. So like what what would make one person like objectively a better person? That makes people makes people feel uncomfortable when you say that sometimes. So he thinks he's better than other people. I do. I do think I'm better than other people cuz I I'm smarter than them. Mhm. I went through the trouble to make more money than them. I went through the trouble to build better social skills and better social networks. I went through the trouble to go work my ass off to be, you know, strong, be able to beat up some dude in a fight. I went through the trouble to do those things. Um, yeah. Do I think I'm better than somebody who's like weak, dumb with useless. I want to be better than I was yesterday. I want to be better than old version of myself, man. Every you should be striving to be better. You know what I'm saying? Maximize, you know, everything you have. That that's the cocky version. The way I said that sounds very cocky. It's not arrogant because it happens to be true, but it does sound very cocky. But it didn't start off that way, you know. So, it started off with as a child, um, I didn't have much of [\h__\h] you know. I didn't have much. I had a below average childhood. And, uh, I wanted to make sure I had a way above average adulthood, you know. So, I do think it's important to like um, find the best teachers, the best coaches, work hard every day, go to go to bed better than when you woke up, be a better man, better person, you know? Yeah. And now that you got this pocket, you can interview some of those coaches here. Yeah, I I have amazing coaches over here every week training with me. Help me a lot with martial arts, help me a lot with my my strength training. And I'm not trying to be a bodybuilder. Um I do train like a pro fighter and I do some strength training in there too, but you to help me with that. But um yeah, I had some great bodybuilders to help me there. You know, Flex Lewis helped me a lot with bodybuilding. Guy named Wheeler Sorc helped me a lot with bodybuilding. a guy named Flex Wheeler helped me with a couple things and um yeah man I mean that helped a lot and then you know the roster of MMA fighters it really helped me a lot to have you know um high level skills and in grappling and striking and like legit good MMA skills now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's up man. So, you built this studio, right? And you got you got all these these training. What's what's the plan with the studio? And now you have access to all these coaches that you've been working with for years. Like what what's the game plan behind it? Cuz you spent you you don't spend close to 2 million. How much you say 2 million? Yeah. What you said with vehicles, you know, the the vehicles are not inexpensive, but uh earlier we were saying that number including vehicles was, you know, approaching 3 million. ood uh you know just that just that Rolls-Royce is about 800,000 and you know Maybox don't give them away they too cheap and the you know and so on so uh but yeah the the the real estate I spent uh 1.3 something close to 1 well you know I already have a studio and I thought it was fun to be able to film down here too sometimes uh so sometimes going to use the main studio for like my mentoring calls and I think I saw it as like you know, a fun environment to be able to film for, uh, you know, when I when I want to do interviews and fun little chats like we're having right now, random chats that I have to use to to share with the world, you know. Yeah. Versus when I do my mentoring calls for my business, you know, I tend to do that in my studio and the the other big studio. Yeah. I have something like that, too. Uh I mean it ain't it ain't like this but I got a studio where I do like my podcast and YouTube live but then I got you know uh a smaller like more like an office space where I do my my mentoring calls and my meetings and [\h__\h] like that. Yeah. What what are some of the superhero things that you worked on over the years that uh I I I know when I say something like that there's some somebody with very skinny legs and uh and even weaker work ethic money bird and um just remember man like the number one thing a hater hates is themselves. I just want to be live the best life that I could live and Brandon's helped me with that quite a lot honestly. Hey, we helped each other with business. We helped each other mostly. You helped me with fitness. I helped you with some things in the stock market. 100%, man. You helped me make a lot of money in the stock market. I didn't know nothing about invest investing in the stock market until like you sit down and really coach me. What were some of your superhero goals like growing up? You know, when when you're a child, you're like, I want to be more like this. I want to be a better man. How were you thinking about this sort of thing? You know, man, I grew up not not far from University of Chicago on the south side, right? And uh you know, you I for whatever reason, man, they put that school like right in the hood. You I ain't got to tell you. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I'm sure it was the same uh same demographic and circumstance. Yeah. In the 1800s when they built it. I'm sure that was their intention. Yeah. I'm sure it was hood back. It was a Native American hood, man. It was Southside, man. The reputation precedes itself. Anyway, it's uh for me, man, it was it was growing growing up because I I grew up on the south side, I had very low expectations, man. Mhm. Like you you become like the people you're around. And it was kind of like, you know, when I even when I talk to kids from here now, like they they don't think they can grow up and be like [\h__\h] successful and they're not going and I think, oh, I'm going to be a hedge fund manager or I'm going be I'm going to be angel investor, right? They they think like, yo, will I be alive at 30? Right? So, it was more along those lines. And then what happened was I got sent away to military school cuz I got in a little bit of trouble, you know? Nothing crazy, man. [\h__\h] fights, skipping school, shootouts, you know, little this is sure normal kid [\h__\h] And um they sent me the way to military school and then I was there. I was like one of the only like kids from that kind of background. There was some like real rich kids there, like some real rich kids there. And I met them and and I would go became friends with them. I went to their houses and I said, "Oh, wait. It's another world. It's real." So like one of the main things I wanted to do was just really get some real money, get out the hood and that was initial that was what the first time I had motivation but it was very important that I changed my my surroundings. Mhm. You know then you got you got to get around big people are winning and initially was those kids parents you know they were they were like the first oh wait a minute it's something different now. this is this is another way and uh I said maybe I'll go to college because it wasn't an ambition you know and then I was like okay so I started applying myself to school ended up with like a [\h__\h] 3 eight GPA scored pretty high on my SATs got in a bunch of schools I had a my I was going to go to the Paul but I was like you know let me just get out of Chicago you know uh and I went to Howard University and it just it just put me on a different trajectory And then I was like, I I need to get rich. I need to get rich and I need to be as like fit as strong as possible. I I I want to look like look like a superhero, be able to do athletic [\h__\h] and be rich. I didn't want to I didn't want to be the trade-off. I know a lot of people make the tradeoff and I didn't want to do that, you know? I wanted those are the main things I thought about, man. So how that manifested itself was just aggressive studying, aggressive learning, not only in school but outside of school, reading, masterminds, mentors, and you know, just hitting the gym every day for like 25 years in a row, you know. Fair days of your years. Just 25 years in a row, man. You know, tracking everything I eat, you know. Yeah. Just you just do that. You do that [\h__\h] for two and a half decades, man. You should make some progress. Yeah. You know, I think that's an important thing to discuss is um it's okay to have audacious goals if you don't have some some lunatic idea that you're going to accomplish them this afternoon. Yeah. Overnight. Yeah. I I think that's the biggest mistake people make is like the goals are too small and then they make them small goals cuz if they can't imagine themselves doing something quickly then they don't they don't have the the game plan and the motivation or more importantly the discipline to put in the work day after day after day and get things done. So you know I'm about to get my black belt in jiu-jitsu uh is a big accomplishment in you know in the next few months. right around the corner and not just a black belt under Jake Shields. Am I right? Yeah. Black belt. You know what I'm saying? That's different. It's different than some guy, you know. Well, you know what? Uh JL Sonen for for people that follow martial arts or, you know, UFC/MA, uh JL Sonen, who's uh you know, was excellent fighter and, you know, wellrespected [\h__\h] talker and uh you know, ass kicker. Uh he reached out to me a few months ago. He asked me some advice about options contracts and uh about stock market and so we chatted about that for maybe 15 minutes and he's like you know hey you know you still been training regularly I'm like yeah of course he said you still training with Jake I said yeah Jake Shields been you know we started together and uh he'd been my main MMA coach and you know I have I asked Leota Machita and Glover Terra to help me with my striking so there I trained with I trained with you all through all three of you guys once it was intense yeah it's intense Yeah, it's intense to me. So, I asked Glover and Leoto to, you know, those are my coaches for like for Kempo karate. I'm like halfway to black belt in their Kempo karate system. Um, but yeah, Jake is my been my uh jiu-jitsu, you know,/grappling coach and um all my belts for grappling for jiu-jitsu under Jake. Um, and he said he's like, "Wow, that's really something to be proud of." JL said he said, "You know, George St. Pierre said years ago, Jake Shields is the best MMA grappler ever. And when I heard that, I thought, is that true? Who's better than Jake Shields? I thought, you know, Damen Maya, so no, Jake beat Damian Maya. I thought of a couple other people. No, he's better than that. He's like, wow, Jake Shields is the best MMA gambler ever. He's like, that's really an accomplishment. You're black belt under. You know what I'm saying? That's why I wanted to highlight it. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I I feel proud about that. Jake's a very good man. He been good dude. Yeah. Yeah. Very good, man. Very, very honorable. Uh we've been very consistent together. But that's the point that I want to get back to is like um man, that's a lot of it takes a lot of consistency. You know, when you were here some time ago, uh I think in December, my friend Hoist Gracie was here. And you know, Hoy was another person who's been, you know, coach or mentor to me in in jiu-jitsu and MMA. And Hoy Gracie said like uh when I got my brown belt, I said, "Well, you know, I only been training like 2 and 1/2 years, and I know that's very fast to be promoted to brown belt in 2 and 1/2 years." He said, "No, no, no." He said, "You you did 9 years of training in 2 and 1/2 years. You didn't train 2 and 1/2 years. You did 9 years of training in 2 and 1/2 years." And that's coming from Hoist. That's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, no, I feel like that's the type of work ethic that if you want to have top level results, that's the type of work ethic that everything I've been successful at, I took it seriously like that. Not even seriously, like you're an extremist. Yeah, I heard that every time anytime anytime I say anything about, you know, money or freedom, they use that word. Yeah. Yeah. Extremist. But, but it makes sense, right? You got extreme results, right? I you need to have extreme actions to get extreme results. And I think the way you dove into um martial arts is just another reflection of that. Well, you can't be a superhero doing, you know, average [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. You're going to have superhero hero outcomes and you're going to have to engage in some superhero behaviors and cause and effect. Yeah. So, you know, if you I I always thought like uh I you know, you and I talked about this earlier like I I don't have I say some cocky things once in a while, but for the people that are still here that weren't turned off by that with your singledigit IQ's. Um for those remaining, it's like, man, I don't I'm not a very cocky person in real life, it's like I don't want to do [\h__\h] my way. I want to do it the best way. I want to do I want to do things in a way that's going to get the best results. Yeah. Also, I want to get money. Also, I too wish to get money. Yeah. I get money. Money I got. Get it. Yeah. It's like an affirmation. It's like affirmation. Money. Money. I got Yeah. Mine's just on silence. Yeah. Smart. I just put my aside. So I have a constant reminder in the head. But yeah, if you if you want to have, you know, uncommon results, if you want to have exceptional results, you're going to have to engage in exceptional behaviors. And the people that don't want to do that, success is not for everyone. It's not success is not for everyone. Uh if you want to have exceptional results, you have to engage in exceptional behaviors. And you have to do that consistently. What what if you only what if you only engaged in, you know, the the business habits that you have or the fitness or the dietary habits? What if you only did that at times it was convenient or times when you were motivated? Bro, I think I rather you do nothing than do something inconsistently because at least if you get do nothing, you you don't give yourself false hope, right? Or false belief, right? You you can't be you can't feel like you were cheated or like life's not fair if you know you didn't try, right? But if you But these people are inconsistent with with anything. They [\h__\h] around and do just enough to fail. You know what I'm saying? Because if you didn't if you didn't do anything, you didn't even fail. You didn't try, right? It's almost like people say, "Oh, well, some is better than nothing." No, no, no. Nothing is better than something, right? You put all the effort into something you could do consistently. When you just [\h__\h] around a little bit, you really just do just enough to fail. You know what I'm saying? No, I hear you. Yeah. Yeah. you said unreasonable goal and then you know failed to live up to that standard failed to achieve an outcome. It is definition of what makes you a failure, huh? Yeah, exactly. It's it's funny cuz I remember you were it was during the the pandemic and you were super focused on the stock market rightfully so. You made you made a lot of money as a result and you just kept saying listen I'm going focus on the stock market. be in the super opportunity, but when I'm when I'm ready, I'm going to get super locked in on my fitness. You would tell me that, you know, and I believed you. I understood that. I didn't think you were [\h__\h] I understood it cuz I'm like, "Yeah, man. Don't [\h__\h] around until you're until you're ready to dive in and be consistent." And then I didn't know you were going to go this hard. You know what I'm saying? But you went that hard and and you've been doing it for the like 3 years plus, right? So, it makes it make total sense. That was that's perfect. if you if you're not going to be consistent because you know you had you got another priority maybe that's fine or you got something else going on and then you did it and now you know you know during that time when if we look back at 2020 um when you know the the world lost a state of mind and people acted uh obscenely foolish in many ways. Yeah. Um, but these are these are the best times in the world to to make serious money in the stock market when people are panicked and scared and freaked out about really not much. Um, it's amazing. It's amazing opportunities and you know I just I looked at that it took me uh I don't know you know to I was 29 when I had a million dollars and you know my early 30s I had a few million dollars. cuz I was still driving a Honda. I had a few million dollars and was driving a a old Honda car. People make fun of that sometimes. Had a couple hundred thousand miles on that car. Oh yeah. I had you know I don'T4 point something 5 million in you know uh net worth. Um and you know I chipped away at things and I made uh you know over the years I you put away half a million and a million and a half million and a million and it adds up. But going in 2011 when that hysteria struck um yeah, you know 10 point something 11 million. Yeah. Mhm. And then you know in in less than 2 years before the end of 2021 I had about 53 million. Yeah. So I made about 42 million added to my net worth while other people were you know hiding under a bed and watching you know under news about uh you know with horror movie music in the background that's supposed to give you the chills. So some of them want to forget about that time but you know who you were. You know who you were with the diaper on your head hiding under the bed. Um so yeah when people are acting absurd and and hysterical uh that's the best time to make money. Mhm. is the best time to make money. And you know, at that time I was like 300 lb. Uh I was 30% body fat, 300 lb. And haters on the internet, you're fat. Why should I Why should I listen to your advice about business? You're fat. I'm like, um, don't out of mind. If you think I just made $42 million in the past, you know, year and a half, but you if you want to listen to somebody else or or just do what you've been doing, if you're happy with your results, just keep doing what you've been doing, man. I keep it up. Keep doing what you're doing. If you're happy with your results, I don't mind. Yeah. But, you know, if you want to have a balanced life, you can have a balanced life over time. But when when somebody talks, you know, somebody who's in their 20s, in their 30s, talks about balance, I think that's a dire mistake. It's a huge mistake. You you you need an extremely unbalanced life in your 20s and 30s. You need to be building your your superhero repertoire, like, you know, being smarter than the other men, being harder working than the other men, uh, you know, building better social networks and relationships, sincere friendships. When I say I'm not saying like networking like fake networking and creating like fake little relationships like no building like real friendships and alliances and like you know a strong warrior, a strong general the king uh you know is the king because he has great alliances and friendships with other people that matter, other powerful people, other intelligent people, other people that can contribute to the kingdom, you know. So I think those that those friendships and relationships are important. I think uh you're building your strength is cool. I think you know building being able to defend yourself or you know kill an attacker who would wish you harm. Yeah. Evil doer. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good thing. So you know any any of these things. So what permutation would you know if you were picking the type of man you'd want your daughter to date? I mean it'd be a list of those type of things. If you were picking like the type of person you want to be your business partner or your like a a strong ally or hunter or her companion in life to go do tough man [\h__\h] you like that dude to be like smart, loyal, strong, uh able to defend himself. Uh probably be cool if he has some resource, financial resources, social resources. So you got to build the life that you want. You know, you got to build that kind of life. And uh you know, if you don't want to do the work, just go do some normal people [\h__\h] That's okay with me. But I I wanted to have the best life I could. I thought, well, hey, I'll be dead soon enough. You know, how we how do we make things as good as possible? And uh I think you're another person that's been you know disciplined on your vision to you know I know you 10 years you've been lean the whole time strong lean uh you know always focused on the the same few principles and the same few goals and enhancing them. So I don't know man I I don't care about the new trendy thing. I want to do I want those like timeless success indicators. I want to build those for the rest of my life you know. Yeah. I like what you said about balance being a a trap. It's a scam. Unless you want to be a regular guy who does regular [\h__\h] Yeah. Then yeah, balance is probably a good That's cool, man. If you don't mind having like a small house, big wife. Mhm. You can be more balanced. But but balance gives you average results. Balance will give you average results. But, you know, and the average American has less than $1,000 in the bank account. Average American is like, you know, close to 20 pounds overweight. The average American just is not really winning on by any metric. You know, an average man can't have an average woman. An average man cannot keep an average woman because an average woman can still have a relationship or at least some time in attention from an above average man. Yeah. So, an average man by definition has to have a notably below average woman. And some of the some of the most below average men don't have any woman at all. Yeah. So yeah, if you don't mind having like if you want to be an average man and have like a 25th percentile woman and $1,000 in your bank account and what type of kids they going to have. Oh, poor things. Yeah. Poor ain't asked for this. They ain't asked to be here in under those circumstances. Living with her big mom in the mall house. Damn. You know what I'm saying? Damn indeed. Eating spam. Oh, you know what I'm saying? One public school. Oh, public school. Ain't no telling what they teach you there. Nothing that'll nothing that'll make you successful. That's a fact. Flying flying Spirit Airlines. Maybe not flying. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe not flying. Yeah. Once a year. Once a year when they can take a [\h__\h] When they could take a fancy trip once a year as an adult. Spirit. Put him on Spirit, man. Spirit. May maybe maybe road trip. You know what I'm saying? And a used car. Yeah. Yeah. It's just like if that's if that's cool with you, then balance is is like a a great path for that, right? But if you want extreme results, you got to put extreme effort. Like that balance [\h__\h] doesn't even happen in the [\h__\h] movies, right? Batman wasn't balanced, right? You know what I'm saying? Like, you know, it doesn't even happen in the [\h__\h] movies. It's true. It's true. Unbelievably. So, it's so dumb to think that you could have outstanding results without an outstanding effort. That like you say, even in a Hollywood movie, they would never tell such a silly story cuz it's so unrelatable and silly. No, no, nobody would. But the audience would pick up on that. They wouldn't believe that. You got to be an extremist. You could be born in a different galaxy far away and like, "Oh, that's what he worked hard." But he went and sought out a mentor. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The dude Luke Skywalker was born in a different galaxy far away, but went and found a mentor and helped him like, you know, Yeah. on the path. Yeah. M mentorship. How's that been important to you? Like mentorship? You know what? When I was a kid, um I was truly misguided. I I was truly a misguided youth. And um I didn't have any mentors. I had to go guess and check, you know, cuz my my father wasn't around. My father was uh you know he was busy with a you know an illegal business when I was a child and then when I was seven uh he went to prison for he had 15ear prison sentence you know before he went to prison he was busy selling and then he went to prison for a long time so he really wasn't around for my childhood and my mother was not the best mother um yeah you know she could could have been worse could have been worse but you know I didn't I didn't have like AI had no role model had anti-roll role models which is useful. I don't I don't mean to say, you know, in the environment that I was in, you look around, you'd be like, all right, like I remember how my parents used to fight when I was a child. They say terrible things to each other and, you know, be violent with each other sometimes. And I thought like, all right, when I grow up, I'm not going to do that. I don't want to I don't want to live that. I don't want to treat my woman that way and I'm not going to accept a woman who would treat me that way, you know? So then you look around at other things happening in the environment is you know there's a lot of people that were alcoholics or using drugs and [\h__\h] and I was like all right that doesn't look like it's going to help me be my best self or accomplish my best goals you know so that that's those anti-roll models are useful believe it or not you're like cuz there there's some clear things you'd be like all right like you know heavy substance abuse doesn't look like a wise path forward here that that's good though okay cuz there are some people that they become successful ful when they go do crazy [\h__\h] like that and they ruin the whole life. They don't have no reference points. Yeah. So, I don't think that was a totally bad thing. But, you know, when when you're then you're like, "All right, I know I'm not doing these few things. I know to never do those things. What the hell should I do?" And then when you got to go guess and check like that, that's very painful cuz you know, even if you're working hard on the wrong things, you can be making your life worse. Hard work is not enough. If you can work really hard, but if you're doing if you're making that effort towards the wrong things, you're making things worse. Yeah. And you only got so much hard work you can put out in your lifetime, you know? So, I think it's very important like it's better to learn from somebody else's mistakes than to go make your own mistakes. You're going to pay one way or the other. You're going to pay for a good mentor. Uh you pay for that by making yourself useful to that person. You might pay with some money. M you might pay with your time to make yourself useful to that person and provide a a product or service or do something for them that enhances their life substantially that they'll take a moment to point you in the right direction on occasion. You know, but that's a lot lower price to pay than the price of navity or the price of stupidity. And um you know, I want to b I always want to banish like a bit of my ignorance every day and be a little less ignorant, a little more wise when I go to sleep every day. So I I understood, you know, I I got to go find the best teachers, the best coaches, the best mentors who could help me accomplish my goals. Yeah. Yeah. You know, they say experience the best teacher, right? But I always think doesn't have to be your experience. Mhm. Right. You know what I'm saying? You can learn it from someone else experience. Like when I got into stock market, you had like decades of experience in it already, right? I was able to benefit from your experience without having to go through the same trials and tribulation. It made a lot of money as a result. Yeah. It only took me 30 years of thinking about it in nine years of university. It mean a lot of books. Yeah. In economics, you see what I'm saying? Like, and I and I didn't have to do any of that. I could just talk to you, right? It's like it's a [\h__\h] cheat code. It's like it was really a cheat code. It it is a cheat code when you find I I think the closest things to like a shortcut. There's no shortcut. The there's no shortcut. But the closest thing to a shortcut to accomplishing your goals is find somebody who already did the thing that you want to do. Find somebody who already did that in real life and make yourself useful to that person that they're willing to take a moment of time to point you in the right direction. Yeah. And you know, they may or may not be nice to you, which shouldn't matter. You know, like if Warren Buffett I I've used this analogy for some times, but I think it'd be, you know, hilarious and amazing. Like if Warren Buffett uh you know, if he had a little nephew or something that he didn't even like that little [\h__\h] you know, but just theoretically say he took the time to send him a text every day or to send you a text every day with like three bullet points. Uh even if two of the bullet points were insults, bam, I'm disappointed with you. [\h__\h] get your [\h__\h] together. Yeah. By the way, take a look at this stock. If if he send you a little daily text with like three bullet points, two of them could be insults, but if the third one was like a point in the right direction, man, it make your life better, wouldn't it? You like to hear Warren's input. Yeah. Hey, I'm buying such and such today. Yeah. Hey, I'm um do some research on this. Let me know what you think, kid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, it's it's so important to have somebody to point you in the right direction. It's the closest thing to to magic, closest thing to cheating, that um the people that have good coaches and mentors and also have the intellect and work ethic to go do the thing, of course, are going to have the best results. How could it be otherwise? Yeah. I've been saying for, you know, some time now, I had this thought a while ago. I thought, you know, when somebody said, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm going to do this and they're going to do they're going to do they're going to do." And I I said, "You know what? Your results tell the truth about your effort and your intellect. Your results tell the truth about your effort and your intellect. And think about that. It's like if you were making a a hell of an effort, and you don't have results, what does that mean? You're probably not very smart. You probably haven't been doing the right things. Cuz if you were working really hard, really giving it your all, and your results are still poor, then your thinking's got to be off. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What What if you were really smart? Yeah. What if you're super smart, but you still don't have results? Well, sounds like your work ethic cuz slacking and and those people are not rare. They're everywhere. A lot of smart people that don't do [\h__\h] That should be good news for the both for those of you that are smart and not that you don't have to be the smartest person, but you if you're willing to work harder than them, if you're smart enough and you're willing to outwork the those uh high IQ lazy individuals, you can earn a lot better outcome than them. Yeah. And I always make fun of I kind of poke at some of my smartest clients like high IQ nerdy people and like doesn't it piss you off when you see somebody that's dumber than you getting better results and they're like yeah universally they're you know they they understand you know like how do you feel when you see somebody who's not as smart as you earning better results than you are you universally that makes people a little why do you think they're doing that? How do you think that happens smart guy? Oh yeah. Yeah. Your results tell the truth about your effort and your intellect. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. The Bible even says by their fruits you should know them. You know what what did they produce you know what's happening right now. It's is really just it it it it you know the results are like uh lagging indicators. It just shows what happened, you know, but like the leading indicators like tell the future like what kind of effort you putting in on a daily basis how consistent you are, right? You know, you really got to figure out what those leading indicators are and then get like super specific with them and super consistent with with what whatever context it is, right? And the best way to do that is to get, you know, a mentor, right? It's it's the only form of learning that that doesn't fail. Like we've all read books and didn't do the [\h__\h] in the book, you know, all of us. You know what I'm saying? Like I I bought courses or programs and and maybe I didn't do the [\h__\h] that it said. You know what I'm saying? But when you have a mentor, I mean that's the [\h__\h] form of learning that never that that never fails. You know what I'm saying? That's how we all learned math. We There was a [\h__\h] adult taught us how to [\h__\h] do it who already did it. That's how we all most of us learn to walk, right? There was some [\h__\h] coaching us or somebody coaching us while you were walking. You were busting your ass a million times. It it's a but you know you can't you know you can't get a book on like how to swim. You know what I'm saying? You got to get in the water and you probably going to have to get in the water with a coach. Yeah. Read a book about jiu-jitsu. Yeah. No, you can't read a book about jiu-jitsu and then hop into the octagon. N I Yo, man. You don't understand, man. I read this book. I saw some free YouTube videos. Saw these YouTube videos. It's a podcast. I'm ready to get in the octagon. You know, I don't think it works like that. He went Dustin Porier. Shout out to Dustin. Uh Dustin's been a decent friend. We did a few talks together and interviews and stuff like that. Dustin Porier won his interim belt uh some years ago. And um when he when he held that belt, when he got to his hands on that belt, you know, he said, "This is my belt. I earned this. Paid in paid in full, paid in blood." And it's not an exaggeration. And it's like the the if you heard the tone of his voice Mhm. is is a you know the voice of like a pound man you know he's not being arrogant or cocky. He like you know I I worked hard and I bled for this you know literally decades. So you know I think that guy and I'm not insulting him. I'm saying I think that guy's got like a eighth grade education. I'm not sure that he finished high school. That may not be true. That's my understanding. But um which I'm not making fun of him for. I'm just saying a guy that came from that environment that that guy worked hard because he's a hard worker. Yeah. He's a hard worker and uh and he had great coaches, you know. Yeah. And you know that that's the price, man. If you want to have like those type of results like champion results is like, you know, paid paid in blood. You're going to go whatever is necessary day after day and have, you know, concussions and bleeding. And even, you know, my my training, you know, I'm not trying to be a UFC champion, but I trained with many UFC champions. And um yeah, you know, I had plenty plenty soreness, plenty of body aches, you know, a couple serious injuries that would never be fixed without surgery. Um but you know, that that's what makes those people respect you is you're you're going to show up. Um, and I created an accountability schedule where my schedule's full. You know, all the 2025, my schedule's full a year in advance. Sometimes 14, 16 months in advance. I know who my coach is. I know which coach is coming this week and the next week and the next week and the next week. And I showed up and put in that effort. You know, the first two years, you just get beat up smaller people. And it's not it don't feel good. You know, it don't feel good for your body. It don't feel good for your ego. Um, but that's what's necessary if you want to accomplish a higher level goal. And uh, you know, it's the same thing in business. Like, you know, I made plenty of bad mistakes as a child. And then you do guess and check, guess and check. And finally, you know, if you're working hard enough and you're willing to make yourself useful to others and, you know, pay the price of uh, mentorship, then, you know, I found good teachers and good coaches who would help me, good mentors to point me in the right direction. Yeah. that changed my results so much, you know, night and day. Yeah. So, you need those two things. Without those two things, there's no notable success in my opinion. Have you ever seen anybody be wildly successful that was lazy and didn't have a good coach or teacher? No. No. No. Like, you can't even if you're lucky, like you won't be able to capitalize on it. You know what I'm saying? Like if a lucky circumstances comes up, you you can't capitalize on it without the preparation. Yeah. I'm insulted when somebody says good luck when I say I'm about to do something and say oh good luck and they mean it in in a positive way and like do you think I'm relying on luck to No I'm relying on skills and hard work and skills if you're relying on luck as a strategy for your success that's like a lottery that's like somebody that buys lottery tickets you're relying on luck for your success luck is the last dying wish of those who think success can happen on accident. Yeah. Well said. Well said. Thanks. You probably thought of that just now. I might have stole it from somewhere or I thought of it. I don't know. That's the number. It might have been logged in my subconscious mind for someone else or I made up made up right before I said it. Either way, I like it. I know we talked a lot about mentorship, right? And the benefits of it. if if somebody wanted to get mentored by you specifically similar to the way you mentor me with the stock market and you know other business stuff like how how would they go about it? I mean, I think the right way to to get an introduction to that is that and I don't know if you have time in your schedule, but uh you know, in the past there's been a couple times that we've done like web trainings like together that you know, we talk to people in your audience and my audience together. And you know, and I should be clear that like um I'm I'm not here to push a lazy person up a mountain or I'm not here to try to, you know, somebody tells me, "Yo, Derek, Derek, I I want to make millions of dollars, but I don't want to do the work. Success is not for you. It's not for you, bro. Success is not for that type of person, you know?" So, the only type of people that I want to work with is somebody who understands that that like I always say like my my perfect client, my target audience, the people that uh that I work with, the only people that I work with, I don't take clients that are that are lazy and that are okay with a small home and a big wife and Yeah. I don't take those type of clients. It's like, you don't need my help to be mediocre. Yeah. So, the right type of person for me to help is somebody who's who's already doing well in life. They're already doing good at something, but they know they could do even better. They have the call in like you've had. They have the call in like I've had, like, man, I want to do better. I want to do more. I'm willing to put in the work. I'm eager to put in the work. You know that that work, the right knowledge and the right effort behind that knowledge is the difference between some average mediocre versus like the the best of the best, the top 1%. when and I remember when it was popular some years ago people talk about the the evil 1% you know that's still popular every election cycle you know you you should be in the top 1% that's you only got to make like half a million a year to be in the top 1% man that's it I made I mean if that's all I made if I made half a million a month I'd be pretty depressed you know yeah I get that if I only made half a million in a month I'd be like I would have to change some things dramatically things fell immediately fell off. So, and I I like to make six figures from my my dividend distributions. I like to make not only I like to I do I do make that, but like you know, if I was making less than six figures for my monthly dividends, I'd be like, you know, we got to fix something. Something's going to ride. So, you know, the the right type of person for me to help is somebody who's uh at a minimum has a goal to have a million dollar net worth. Mhm. You're already doing good at something. And you know, there's no free money. There's no easy money. You I I can show you the most important things that you would need to know, but you got to have to put in the work to to earn your spot in the world like any other productive man or woman. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah. All right. Yeah. So, you know, go if that's you, maybe jump on that free training that we're doing. We doing a free training. Listen, Money Break, there's enough enthusiasm from the audience. You think you can make some time to do that with me for for my audience? I make time to do anything you want to do. You've been a good friend to me for a decade. And uh if there there's somebody out there, if we could save some souls, Yeah. from poverty or mediocrity, help them show help show them the path to better days, brighter ways. I'd be happy to help somebody like that if you're willing to help yourself. All right. So, if that's you, click that link in description, register for the free training. Last time we did this, we had too many people in it, right? We crashed it. So, we got to make sure that we're gonna we're going to limit how many people are in now. If you see it in the availability, you'll be able to get in. But, we got to limit it this time cuz last too many people showed up. This this true. We had to switch from one platform to the other cuz Yeah, the first platform literally crashed. So, we had a tech issue and we had to switch hundreds of people over from one platform to the other in the middle of our our web training. So, hey, success is not for everybody. It may or may not be for you. It's for you to decide, though. This this little logo, I'm not sure. It says choose to conquer. You know, a different way of saying that is that, you know, success is a lifestyle choice. If you're the type of person that's the willing to pay the price to success. If you're the type of person that's willing to work hard and you're smart enough to find good coaches, good mentors, good teachers, who already did the things that you want to do, I'd be happy to help you be more successful in your financial journey. You know, there's a lot of people on the internet, they say, you know, oh, trading this and drop ship that and these crazy things, the most insane things. Like, I don't do any of that. I do a lot of very boring things. I do boring things that work. Mhm. I do boring things like show up at the gym and lift my weights five times a week. I do boring things like show up over 200 days a year for my MMA training. I do boring things like learn about finance and investments every day of the year for decades of my life. And you know, because I had the discipline to do those things and pay attention to little details that other people didn't want to, you know, that that helped me make tens of millions of dollars in the stock market. In addition, it helped me make over $10 million in real estate. In addition, it helped me make over $50 million near me $und00 million in entrepreneurial revenue. So, if that's something that you're interested, if you want to learn from somebody who did those things and help teach one of your mentors how to do some of those things, I'd be happy to help you. But you got to show up for your own success and be happy to help yourself as well. If you're the type of person that's that's willing to learn more so you can earn more. If you're the type of person that you know if you knew better, you would do better, click that link. Click that link. I'll do a new web training with Bandon. Make sure we point you in the right direction and help banish some of those ignorant thoughts, help you uh be a little wiser and and more proficient at accomplishing your biggest and best goals. That's exciting. Click that link in the description right now. If somebody wanted to start walking down that path and they wanted to learn from you how to do it, how how would they go about that? Guess what? Branders asked me to do a live training for his audience and mine. We're going to do that on April 28th, 400 p.m. Pacific time, 7:00 p.m. Eastern time. In that training, I'm going to walk you through the 10 most important things. I call the ten commandments of wealth. The 10 things you must do if you want to create serious wealth in your lifetime. Who's the right person to come to that live training? And in my mind, I think it would be somebody who's not only ambitious, but has the kind of work ethic that will allow them to put in the work necessary, right? Because it ain't no get rich quick thing, right? Somebody had to put in a lot of work over a consistent amount of time, but they'll be able to put in the right work and that will definitely put them down mark you down that path, you know? So, it's it's not for somebody who's lazy. It's not for somebody who wants something like a get-rich quick scheme. somebody who wants like the real foundation of good and serious wealth. Yeah. I I don't believe in get-rich quick. If it was so easy to get rich quick, if every fool who you know was uh had a bad work ethic and and no knowledge for get rich quick, they would have done it already. Yeah. If you could get rich by yourself, you would have done it already. So, don't worry about get rich quick or get rich slow. But do worry about getting rich. Do worry about creating enough wealth in your lifetime. You can have whatever silly [\h__\h] you want. You can have you can have purple stone to match your purple Rolls-Royce. Yeah. If you don't want a purple rose rice, get a green one. Get a green one.