Yo, what up? This is Big Brandon Carter. I get a lot of questions about working out with no equipment. So, I'm going to show you how to do a nice little chest workout. No equipment at all. I'm not going to [\h__\h] you. Uh, none's better than a bench press or dumbbell bench press, but a lot of us don't go to the gym. I haven't personally been in a gym in over 3 years. Um, so and a lot of people don't have access financially or timewise. You know, me, I prefer to not go to the gym, but that's another video. Uh, bench presses the best, but if you can't do it, another good thing is to use uh suspension training. You know, uh, TRX or human trainer or something of that nature. Uh, that you can get a real good chest workout with that. I think that's second best in my my humble opinion, you know. But if you don't have nothing, absolutely nothing. It's just you in a room, still no excuse. I'm going show you what you can do. One of the best exercises is chair dips. All right? You just get two chairs. Make sure they're sturdy chairs, man. I know plastic [\h__\h] And you put them side to side and you just do dips just like you would in a gym, but you know, you're just doing them on a chair at home. You can also do elevated push-ups. So, these kind of simulate uh the bench press or the incline bench press depending on how high your your legs are up. You know, if your legs are real high, then it'll be kind of like a bench press. I mean, it'll be kind of like a incline bench press. So, you can put them on a chair or you can put them your legs up high on the wall and just bang them out. It's going to add a lot more resistance to the push-up. If you got it like that, you can do explosive push-ups. It's it's a plyometric movement that's going to really work the fast twitch muscle fibers in your chest, help you uh build make them stronger and and build mass, you know? It's it's really good for people who are strong who regular push-ups would just you you do too [\h__\h] many. You'd be doing them all day. But this you you'll go to failure with explosive push-ups quicker. Now, obviously, if you were in the gym, you might do dumbbell flies, cable flies, cable crossover, something like that. But if you're at home, what's a good substitute? What I like to do is I like to take two towels or washcloths. I have hardwood floors. So, I put them down on the floor and I get in position push-up position when I'm under my hands and then I just slide them out, man. You know, just just like flies. And I actually think these are harder than dumbbell flies, you know? My humble opinion. If and if they're too easy for you, then [\h__\h] put your legs up on a chair and do them, man. If you can do those, man, make a video and send it to me. I want to see it. And if you don't have hardwood floors, you got carpet, then you can do crawl push-ups, which is you're basically just going getting low in the negative part of the push-up position, then you're crawling to one side, knocking out a push-up, and then crawling back, knocking out a push-up, you know, that kind of thing. That's going to work similar muscles as dumbbell fly would or something like that. So, these are good substitutes for people working at home, don't have no gym, and you just want to knock it out, man. There's no excuse. You just do the best you can with whatever you got, whether you in the gym, in the park, or at home.