I get a lot of questions about how to workout without any equipment, you know. So, um, today we're going to do a tricep workout with no equipment. You know, if you really want to get uh pretty much that muscle mass and you want big arms, triceps are going to do it more than biceps are because triceps just takes up more space on your arms. You know what I'm saying? It's more there's more tricep on your arms than biceps. So, you want to focus on that if you want your arms to be big and great. I suggest that you check out do you get something some kind of suspension training apparatus like the TRX or the human trainer because there's a lot of great stuff you can do uh not only for triceps, but for for full body with that joint. If you don't even have that and it's just you at home, I'm going show you sometimes you can do chair dips. This is a great exercise. It really it focuses on your whole all the muscles that push, you know, your chest, shoulders, and triceps. But it's it's great for all three of those, but uh triceps get a lot of work from that. Then you want to do floor skull crushers. That's what I'm calling them. You're in the gym and you grab a weight and you lay on your back and do skull crushers. It's like this, but now you're doing it You're doing that same movement, but you're doing it on the floor. You know what I'm saying? Instead of being on your back, you're on your forearms. And then closed grip push-ups. This is similar to um close grip bench press. It's actually it's actually the same thing, you know, it's closed grip push-ups. And if you want to make it harder, if you need to make it harder because it's too if doing just regular body weight is not heavy enough, then you can put your feet up on a chair or on a wall. you know, the higher you get them, the more difficult it's going to be, the more resistance it's going to be on your triceps, and you want to knock them out. Like diamond push-ups, close grip push-ups, same thing. Those are real great for your tricep development, man. Um, if I was you, I would do three to four sets of each. Do each set till failure. Especially because we're doing body weight stuff. Don't, you know, don't count them reps, man. And you want to do as many as you can because you can't adjust the resistance as well as you could if you were in a gymnasium. You want to just knock them joints out as many as you can. Use a timer to count your rest. Uh rest rest about 60 to 90 seconds between each set. Do three to four sets of each exercise two to three times a week. And you should be putting on that muscle mass in no time. Heat.