I've been trading for the last five years, trading futures to be specific. This year, I've been making a lot of money. And in this video, I'm going to show you my whole trading strategy, and show you how you can start making money trading futures. I'm going to give you my whole setup, my breakdown, everything I do, so you can start getting some of this paper as well. The reason I've been making so much more money this year than I have in the past, because in the past, I was trading with my own money. And that's fine, but this year I started trading with something called a prop firm. So this is when you can get funded accounts and you can trade with other people's money. Now you have to pay to get a funded account and then you have to pass an evaluation and then once you pass uh trading evaluation you have to make a certain amount of profit then you get to trade with their money. And the cool thing about the prop room that I use is called Apex trader funding. You can have 20 funded accounts at a time and you can trade with all of them simultaneously. So this is a screenshot from this morning. So, I traded with one account and copied everything to every other account. Some of the fills were different, right? You can see what I made on each account trading this morning. And I've been posting this every day on my Instagram as well. So, follow me on Instagram, King Keto, you'll see all my trades every morning, right? But I posted this on Instagram. This is about 18 grand. If you got a minus the SIM account, cuz I had the SIM account on here, this account, but when you get a funded account on Apex, it says PA. So, this is a PA account. And Apex has been paying me too. A lot of people say Apex doesn't pay pay me. This is my login to Apex Trader funding and you can see that I requested from all my accounts. I have it blocked out so you don't see my account number for security reasons, right? But you can see that on the 27th I requested 2750, right, from each account cuz they won't let me take the whole thing out, right? But that's how much I I requested from each account. And you can see I got approved, man. So they send in this money. This is live me in Apex. I did try to make a request before that. They got denied, but this one's these got approved. Total this is about 50 grand that they're paying me and like since if you see it when I got denied for the payout is the 15th. 12 days later I requested a another payout 50 grand. One account they denied. I don't feel like going there. But this is real. These these are my PAS PA payments. Now I'm going to break down my trading strategy and everything but it it reset after today. So it's not here anymore. What what the trades for today. But again these are 50k accounts. And you can see that I'm up like net liquidation. just means how much I is in each account now. It's basically I'm up like 1,200,300 some of them 1400 each account. There's like a4 million in like a month. This is the reason I've been making so much more money trading futures because I just have so much leverage now and I trade with other people's money instead of trading with my own money. I want to break down my whole strategy and how I trade. We're only trading one instrument. Me is NASDAQ futures or NQ. That's it. That's the only thing I'm trading. And the reason you want to trade the same instrument over and over is because you kind of start to learn it. You kind of start to understand how it moves. You get a feel for it after you get a few hundred hours of trading. It's kind of like having sex with a woman. Some of you have had sex with women, not all of you. And you know, you can have sex with one woman one way and it can be the best she ever had in her life. You can do the exact same moves with another woman and she thinks it's the worst. And they're both right. And it's all your fault. you're responsible. That's what it's like. Every instrument moves differently. It has different proclivities and it behaves differently. So, you want to get to know the instrument well. You only do that with ours. Cuz those of you who've had sex with a woman and if she let you do it again, you've been with that same woman, you start to learn each other body. Sometimes it gets better. It's like that with all relationship. Like even my girlfriend, like she got a app to track her menstrual cycle and I'm like, I don't need an app. It's going to be on the 14th. I just know. Been together 3 years and we were friends for 2 years before that. cuz I I already know when it's coming up, man. Well, she going to start acting crazy. It's going to be the 14th. I don't need your app. Just ask me. Chat BBC. But it's like that when you trade one instrument over and over again. Another reason why I'm a profitable trader is because I practiced. When I first started trading, I did over 200 hours of practice trading, simulated trading. So, what I would do is I would download data from different days and I would practice trading and I track how many hours. I got 200 hours of trading. the strategy I'm going to show you on the same instrument. If you do that with anything, you're gonna get good, right? You go grab a guitar, 200 hours, you're gonna be decent. But then if you account for all the years I've been trading, I've got like maybe 1,000 hours, but I make sure I got that 200 hours of practice. My strategy is wildly different than what anyone is teaching on the internet. If you've been trading any other way, it might not make sense to you. You might think it's [\h__\h] but I would like you to suspend your disbelief momentarily and just ask yourself, are you more profitable than me? Do you got a4 million in profit in your [\h__\h] funded account or real life account? If not, maybe, just maybe, you should shut the [\h__\h] up and listen. That's what I would do. I watch other people's trading content and only recently, like I I wasn't watching other people's trading content, even though I'm friends with some people who make it. I wasn't watching it because I just knew they were doing something so different than me. But recently, I've been watching other people's [\h__\h] and their [\h__\h] seems way more complicated than what I'm teaching. It almost make me laugh like, yo, this [\h__\h] is nerdy. I'm not going to say mine is better. Mine is better for me. You might think it's better for you. You might not. You might want to do what someone else is doing, and that's cool. But just approach this with an open mind. So, what I do is I trade on the 15-minute chart. It's already that's already wacky. And the indicators I have, I know like a lot of guys don't use indicators. They're using ICT strategies. Blah blah blah blah blah. No use indicators. Hey, I like indicators. So, what I have are this is one indicator like the order blocks. That's these red lines. You can ignore that. One of my boys put that on here when I first learned Ninja Trader. It's his proprietary thing, but I kind of ignore it. So, you can ignore that. That's pretend that's not there. I just didn't take it off cuz I got used to it. The indicators I I have are the 200 EMA, the 50 EMA, the 21, and the 21 EMA. Those are the main indicators. My chart looks a mess, especially compared to these other guys. My strategy is this white line is the 200 EMA. If the price is underneath the 200 m EMA, I'm looking for shorts. This only works on the 15-inut chart. If it's above the 200 day EMA, I'm looking for longs. So, I decide the direction. What I do is on the 15-minute chart, I wait until price bounces off either one of these trend lines or one of the EMAs. Now, here's the thing. I go in one contract deep, and it's important you have at least an account size of 150K in your funded account or your evaluation account. I'm going to show you some videos of my trades this morning. There's a stop-loss, but only because you kind of need a stop-loss to trade with Apex, but it's like way out of the way. I behave like there's no stop-loss. It's very important because if price goes against me, I will add another contract at the next either trend line that I drew. So, I draw these trend lines or EMA, right? the next resistance. So, I was going short this morning, right? So, if when price went against me, I added another contract and I moved my my takeprofit up. So, this is the King Keo scalp. I'll show you what it looks like. Go here. Yo, this going to [\h__\h] with the stop loss. The reason it's so large cuz I really just want it out of the way. Like, I'm ignoring it and I'm going for 20 ticks for my take profit. So, on NQ, this will give you like $100 every time you hit your takerit. That's the template. Now, the stop is just there cuz I think you need a stop for a Apex, but I'm totally ignoring it. Cuz what I'm going to do is I'm going to buy my way out of it. If it goes against me, I'm going to put in another contract at the next either trend line or EMA, and I'll go a few deep. If I end up adding another contract, I move my takeprofit up. Let me show you what that looks like. It's not the best video cuz I took it with my meta glasses, but let's watch it. So, what you can see is these are these were sell orders. These are sell orders and they're stacked up at the EMAs and support and resistance. Now, this is a 15-minute chart. I keep the two-minute chart up. See, you don't have to do this. This is something I do. I just watch the two minute chart. The two-minute chart is kind of there like like just an indicator. I just like to watch it, but I'm kind of ignoring it. It's really I'm trading off the 15-minute chart. When I'm traveling and I don't have two screens, it's only a 15-minute chart up. Let me show you what this looks like. So, I go in. This is the open, right? And you hear young candlestick on Discord in the background saying what up to people. Whoa. Breaking now. Watch out. All right. I'm in it. Hit my sell order. It's going against me. Look where the stop loss is. I'm totally ignoring it. You will never hear no one else say this. How much do you risk per trade? I'll risk it all. I don't give a [\h__\h] It's not my money. It's a prof. I'd have a tight stop if I was trading with my money. But let's keep going. All right. It's losing my take profit. Okay. So, what happened? It hit my sell order. So, what I'm about doing now is I'm moving the takerit up cuz I don't need as much to get my $100. Got it. Boom. And then it hit my take profit. Boom. 30 seconds in the market open. That's how I started my day off. And I took some trades in the pre-market, too. But that's how I trade. And then when when you do that, it like these other sell orders in here, they're going to get erased. As you can see, they just go away. This is a unique strategy. You may be thinking, if the price keeps going against you, when do you cut your losses? If you're like ignoring the stop-loss. Like, I behave like there's no stop-loss. And basically, it's a mental stop-loss. I go off of vibes. I'm legit trading off the vibes cuz I've been [\h__\h] trading in Q futures. I'd have hundreds and hundreds of hours on the same instrument with the same strategy. So, I I just feel good about what I'm doing. So, even if it goes against me, I'll just buy more and then move my takeprofit. Here's another example of it. Now, this one wasn't as clean as that one. I think this was pre-market. So, you see I'm in I'm in the trade now. I hit my sell order, and you see I have other sell orders stacked up. Here's the thing. I don't think it's going to go through all this resistance. It's going to shoot up past all this resistance at once. Look how price moves, especially on a 15-minute. If it goes up or if it goes down, it doesn't go in a straight line, right? It has dips. Boom. Boom. It's always a wave up or down. And I'm riding the wave. I'm future surfing. So, but the thing is you got to be with the trend with the overall trend. So, I'm in this trade. Watch it go against me. And I'm just watching a show called Get Up. Then I have other [\h__\h] on my other computer, but I'm chilling. I'm in the negative. I ain't tripping. This trade's going against me. It's looking bad. Now, you see just happened there. It hit my other buy order, right? So, now I'm losing money twice as fast. A lot of y'all [\h__\h] are panic, but I'm way cooler than you. So, I'm chilling. You see where this right at the moving average? That's where I had it. Watch what happens. See how the lats aren't focused on getting a Okay. Oh, and then I move I moved my take profit up basically half halfway where where it was cuz I don't need as much. Anxious about having LeBron as he took from 2020. All right. So now we just chilling. Listen, man. The stop loss is like off the screen. I'm ignoring. All right. See, it's bouncing, bro. I'm just watching ESPN chilling. And I ain't even Okay, now it's profitable, but it ain't hit my It ain't hit my take profit yet. Blah blah blah. Let's see if we can move it up. It's still negative. I've been in this trade for mad long. I'm just chilling. All right, let's see what happens. Oh, now, okay, now look, you can see it better on the 2-minute. It's moving down. It's shot up, right? It hit two of my buy orders, but now it's coming down to the takerit. And I'm chilling, man. I'm watching ESPN. Sometimes I'm playing guitar or I'm doing this [\h__\h] It's about to give me my take profit. There you go. Boom. Hit the takerit. You know what I'm saying? And that was like $150 per account. So, it was $3,000 cuz it happened on 20 accounts. And that's how I do it, man. I mean, it's ballsy. No stop-loss. Gangster [\h__\h] It only works on a 15-minute chart because a 15-minute chart is just I don't know. It just makes more sense to me. Oh, I draw trend lines, too, right? What's funny, man? I've been drawing trend lines all month, and you can see all I keep them up. They still act as support and resistance. It's like if I go back here, this a trend line I drew [\h__\h] days ago. It's still acting as support and resistance weeks later. So, I keep it up. [\h__\h] Until this gets too messy, then I got to start [\h__\h] just look what happens. Like, look at look at it. It shot down pre-market. Boom. You can see it bouncing off the support and resistance. You can see it bouncing off the moving average. This is what I do. This is how this is how I trade. If we go back here, look how many contracts deep I was willing to go in. I was willing to go balls deep. I was willing to go four contracts deep cuz I didn't think it was going to blast past all this without coming and I would have kept moving my takeprofit and I don't think it would have went past all of this without hitting my take profit early. It could have. It's just that hasn't been my experience. And you just got to know how to draw the the support and resistance. And you know, you got to be ballsy to do that [\h__\h] cuz sometimes I'll be like I'll end up five contracts deep. That means the trade really went against me. But then what happens is the the break even moves up, right? Break even moves. So you I move my take profit closer to break even. But to the point cuz you don't need as much. I just want to get $100 or so each trade. It's ballsy. Almost nobody trades like this. That's how I do it. I'm just trying to get 20 ticks. It's about $100 a trade. Sometimes it's clean, sometimes it's not. Y'all can let me know if y'all see anybody else trading like this, but I am the only person. And here's the thing, you don't need to have a lot of money. I'm using a proper. I'm trading with their money. going in with small size and scaling up if it goes against me. So, it gives me room to be wrong. Now, there's a few things you should see. This is my trading setup. The other monitors aren't connected. The only monitor connected to this laptop is this one right here. This is like my other my other computer. It's is weird. Don't worry about it. But what you need to pay attention to is this. This is a Stream Deck Mini. So, I have I have hot keys set up on Ninja Trader. And this is buy market. So, if I see something happens real fast, I need to just buy. Boom. Hit that button. It's like a joystick. sell market. If I need to go short, boom, I hit this. Then if I need to move to a break even stop, I hit this. I almost never use that [\h__\h] though. But like, it's there. If I if I feel like, okay, I hit go to break even. And then sometimes I need to just get out of a trade. Boom, take profit. Otherwise, if you're on Ninja Trade, you got to do this. I got to move up, move around, and it's it's like cumbersome, man. [\h__\h] that. I also have hotkeys set up on my mouse. So, this is the Logitech MXM 3S. So these buttons you can program. This button here is sell market. This button here is buy market. So I can also do it from my mouse. I like to do it better on a stream deck, but when I'm traveling it's just I just program the disc. Boom. And I can just do it off here. This is take profit like close a position. That's unique. I haven't seen anybody talk about it. Let me know if other guys are doing it. I don't be watching other traders [\h__\h] And that's basically it's like super simple way of trading but you got to have nuts. Like I see other people saying, "Man, yo, you got to have risk. I'm risking this much to get this much." Like, "Yo, man, I'm risking it all every trade, bitch." [\h__\h] it's strategic. Yo, my win rate is like super high, man. You can see on my PA, you can see how much I'm up. It's right here. I'm covering up the the the numbers for security reasons, but you can see these are PAs and I'm up, man. Like, I'm up like a [\h__\h] quarter million. If you want to learn more about this, how to get a funded account so you don't have to risk your own money. If you want to learn more about my straightening my trading strategy more in depth, if you have questions you want to ask me, I'm doing a live training next week where I show you exactly how to do it. The link is in description. I'm gonna break down everything. I'm gonna go into way more in depth cuz there's more to it than what I showed you. I just showed you as much as I can in in this amount of time. And if you want to ask me questions, you can do it live on this training. We're going to break everything down. We're going to have Q&A. It's going to be a lot of fun. Let's get it, man. I'm going to show you how to get funded, how to get profitable, so you can start making money without risking your own money. That's the beautiful thing. I'm a better trader when I don't have to use my own money because of the psychological part of it. Click the link in description, sign up for the crash. It's going to be dope.