Heat up Yo, what up? What up? What up? This is Big Brandon Carter. Today I want to show you how to work out your shoulders. How to get bigger, stronger shoulders. See these shoulders? See these arms? how to get I'm show you how to get bigger, stronger shoulders with no weights, just working out at home. All right, traditional weights. You still want you're still going to be using resistance. It's going to be body weight. You can do lateral raises without weight. You can pull up a bag of books and just do side raises like that. That's going to work the side. is one with the side deltoid right here. If you get that that mean cut all up in there. All right. Another thing you can do is shoulder push-ups. Meaning like it's kind of like regular push-ups, but your feet are closer to your hands. Hands are going to be closer to your feet and your butts going to be in the air. All right. Pause. To make those harder, you can get some bars, some push-up bars and go so you can go deep so you can get a fuller range of motion because you go further down. Pause. Then you can start doing them against the wall, like just handstand push-ups against the wall. Repose out, man. And then once you got those, you can start working on the handstand push-up. I have a video on how to do handstand push-ups. And once you start getting those, like you're going to notice I like me, I noticed like some shoulder and tricep some stronger shoulder and tricep development because I've been doing freestanding handstand push-ups. Not just in the muscles, but like the little stabilized muscles they keep. You ever see the guys, you ever see guys in Olympics, the gymnasts, those are the most ripped guys, right? Cuz they have to use all those little muscles that most of us never use to stay balanced. And once those get developed, you start looking even more ripped. Once you get those developed and you have low body fat, you start looking crazy ripped. So, I'm like noticing a little bit of improvement in my arms and delts. I think and I think handstand push-ups are I think handstand push-ups are to blame. So once you got the handstand push-ups, you want to start doing them with the pull-up bar with the push-up bars. Everybody's going to ask me what kind of push-up these bars. This is some [\h__\h] I found on Amazon. I'll post the link down below. Nothing special. They're just big ass push-up bars. All right. So once you can get them like that, these are better than the one these are better than just doing them on the ground because because you can go down further. Pause. And get a better range of motion when you go up and down. Pause. It's a little easier to stay balanced on the bars, but it's the exercise is harder because the range of motion has increased now. Now you can go now you can go down further. It's harder on your delts, but it's easier with your balance. So, at least I find it. Some people might think different. So, anyway, these are things you can do at home, man, with no weights to build your shoulders up. And it's going to help your triceps, too, man. I really feel like it's helped me out. You know, I'm going to get the right light so you can see what the [\h__\h] I'm talking about. Look at them triceps, bro. Yo, man. I really think it's the it's the it's the calisthenics more than the weights that's that's that's pushing it, right? Because how often do I do you press [\h__\h] 190 lbs straight up? How often do you have to balance 190 lbs? You know, like I really feel like the calisthenics are really these calisthenics are really helping me out. So, hope that helps you get your [\h__\h] together and put on that muscle mass.