I am here with Mike Vicanti, uh, trainer, writer, fitness expert. Uh, introduce. It was great talking to you, Mike. It's great. We had some troubles at first, but I'm glad we're finally on. I I apparently don't understand technology at all, but now we got the phone set up. We're good. You can hear me. Yeah. Thanks for having me, dude. That's It's a clearer image with the phone. What phone is that? Yeah, I don't know. this well uh a 6 Plus but now they have like the the new iPhone just came out yesterday or whatever. So Oh yeah, it just came out. Man, it's funny is I was going to show you I just got like a a 6 Plus not knowing another one was going to come out though. There's a new phone coming right out. I don't know. Do you know if the the new camera I I didn't know if that was one of the features that was going to be better like higher quality video? I don't think it's better enough. You can do 4K, right? 4K. But but I don't know. Like without getting too techy, it's like four a 4K like 4K out of this lens is going to be a little different than 4K out of this lens, you know, like or you know what I'm saying? Like how much light can get in the lens counts, too. So, I don't know. I think it's kind of semantics, but what what do I know? I'm just a guy and and I'm shooting like videos on my shitty iPhone that have whatever quality. So, who knows? No, it's good. I mean, this this is a good camera. It's a good camera, you know? So, that's part of the reason why we got because I already had a phone. I had a Note 4. So, like I just got this because we needed another one for cuz people would call while I'm filming. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Not even me. And then you got to restart. I know. You got to put on either airplane mode or just get another phone, which is probably the better solution. Yeah. You know, if you got it like that, man. But tell me tell the people more about yourself, Mike. Yeah, absolutely. So, I like I'm a trainer. Um I have I'm actually in an office because I train one client in person, uh guy by the name of Gary Veaynerchuk. So, I'm in New York and he owns this Yeah. He's a he's like has a very big social media presence. A lot of what he does is social media. 500 person agency and they do digital social marketing um for a bunch of companies. But he probably a year and a half ago now, 14 months ago, was like I had trained him in the gym a little bit before. He was like, "Mike, I want to take things to the next level. I have this super rogue idea. Like, let's jump on the phone." It's like, "Okay." So, I at the time was working in a gym and and doing online coaching stuff. Um, and he was like, "I want a trainer to follow me around everywhere I go." And he's traveling a 100 days a year. Like he's on vacation with his family seven weeks a year. He's like, "I want you there by my side all the time, like taking care of my nutrition, training every single day in the gym." I'm like, "Gi, we don't have to work out every day to see results." He's like, "No, I want like I want to cement this for two straight years." Like basically, are you in? And so that's where I am right now. That's what we're doing. So, I'm in his office right now. I literally just brought him like like a protein shake and a bowl of cereal. I got him in this muscle gain phase. So, that's uh that's what I'm doing. Two years you're following him around. Yeah. Yeah. And we're we're over a year in. He he lost like we leaned out quick. So, he's 5'8 kind of skinny fat to start. Um not very strong. So, we dropped like 25 pounds right out of the gate. And and now he's gotten much stronger. put on a little bit of muscle and as we head into winter, the goal is add size without adding body fat. Ah, yeah, that's good. That's awesome. I didn't know you guys were in New York, man. We could I'm in New York right now. We could have did this in person. You're in New York? Where? What part of the city? I live in Queens, but uh we our office is here in uh uh upper east upper east side is where we're at right now. Got it. We're working out this apartment right now. It's like this like our nobody lives here. We we've been written different apartments every week to work the team works out of and then everyone it's the off the office apartment. Yeah, because it's a gym here. There's a gym here. So, we we film a lot of videos in the gym. We uh that's why we rent the offices, right? I mean apartments for offices. We get the gyms and we can like film on the roofs and there's central and there's central parks right over there. So, it's pretty cool. Dude, that's amazing. That's smart. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, thank you. Yeah. So, I'm I'm literally on Park and 23rd right now. You're like, "Oh, wow." Blocks up. Yeah. Damn. That's crazy. Oh, it's good thing we Good thing we fumbled around with the internet for for half an hour. This is so good. No, man. So, when you guys you travel a lot with him, how often do you travel? Um, so if he if he goes on a day trip, which he actually does, he'll go to the West Coast for a day. come back. I won't go there. Like I trust him enough to do his cardio on his own when he's gonna do that. But any any other time I'm probably I was in Southampton with he and his family for three weeks in August because they were you know he was working from there a little bit. He was on vacation and so I'm I'm literally crashing in the guest bedroom like hanging out downstairs and then making sure his meals are on point. He gets a workout in every day. So, so, uh, so what happened to your life, man? Like, yeah, right. No kidding. It It's actually one of the reasons I did it was because he he's so smart at building businesses, right? He's like marketing is his thing that I wanted to absorb as much of that as possible. And I didn't have to give much up in terms of of business stuff. So, I still run my own coaching stuff. I can still write. Obviously, I have plenty of time, but locationwise, yeah. Like, if I had a girlfriend right now, she'd be pissed because I'm gone half of the year. But I like He's a cool guy. I mean, I'm like that. Mine's like that now. I'm like that now. Yeah. Right. I uh I made it back to Minnesota where I'm from last week though. So, like there's there's a little bit of time off here and there. That's That's all. So, how often how many hours a day do you work out with him? With him an like an hour every day. Damn. So, how do what do what do you guys do the other 23? Yeah. Right. He literally like this dude check him out. He just works his face off. Like he works. He wants to buy the New York Jets is his big picture goal. Yeah. Um, so hardcore businessman and he goes all the time and I'm not I read crush it like uh when I was first starting out, you know, like with internet marketing and social media and stuff, you know. Yeah. Crush it. Yeah. Yeah. Jab, jab, uh, uppercut. Yeah. Right. Right. Jab, jab, jab, right hook. I like uppercut better, actually. Oh, yeah. Hey, man. That's my spin on it because you can do you do you box? I have. I not I mean not like I've never been in a ring, but I've been one of my uh the guy who taught me how to lift weights when I was younger. Uh he was a Golden Gloves uh champion, so we did boxing and stuff like training with and I did some uh Mu Thai kickboxing training, but I had to cut all that stuff out. Do you box or anything? No. And I would get my ass kicked in a fight like like just I I think I put the gloves on and hit the heavy bag once and like wrist kind of hurt. I was just like I don't know if this is for me. Yeah. Yeah. It's not for everyone. Let me How do you get So how do you get into like these celebrity clients kind of thing? cuz I I've only I've had a few like uh uh belist celebrity clients and and I've had some um some NFL players, but like they've all kind of reached out to me just because of my social media was uh so robust. How how did you Yeah. How how did this uh come about? So I out of college, I worked an accounting job. Like I was working 60 hours in an office. absolutely hated every single day of my life for a year and a half, two years. Um, I quit and got into fitness as a trainer at that point rather than just for myself. And shortly after there was an internship in New York City posted, I was living in Chicago at the time with John Romanelloo who does writes and does online fitness stuff. Yeah. Who was he he was Gary's trainer at that time. Ah, and so I moved out here, started working for free for Roman, and then he promoted me. Um, was working more full-time for him, and then when he had to move to Los Angeles, Gary needed a new trainer, and it he just kind of passed me off. He's like, "Mike's great. You guys should meet. You guys should talk." And uh, and yeah, so it was that introduction how I met Gary. Why was Well, so if if if Roman was training him, why was he fat when he got with you? You know, like why? That's a good question. When it's like I'm I'm just throwing him under the bus. There was there was Who that man 2.0 brother knew? I'm just joking. Like this. Oh, really? Yeah. I was just joking. Um he when it was actually when he was writing the book and I think Gary had Thank You economy coming out at the time or maybe it was Jab Jab Jab. He they both had books coming out. They both got busy and then there was like a year or at least 10 months where workouts just weren't happening. So kind of in between Roman training him, a year off and then I came in and you know there's a little damage done in that year. Yeah. Yeah. No, a year a year of not training will I mean I I assume I don't know what that's like but I assume Yeah. Right. Detriment it's not optimal. It's not optimal. Yeah, man. That's awesome, man. That's like So, how so it's two years, but you still do online training? Now, tell me tell me more about that because people always ask me to to do online training. Like, I have courses and stuff that that I that I I sell online, but I never uh train people one. How does that work? Yeah. So I it starts out with an assessment but like and and the courses versus you know if it's a book or if it's coaching the upside of coaching is that I can go deeper with each person right like I can spend more time talking with each person if if they're paying a little bit more and I have fewer clients than I would sell to like we can go deep about whatever subjects like they need to because a lot of people aren't like they're psychological they're emotionally issues. There are even like lifestyle issues or just misconceptions that I pick up on in those conversations. So, they fill out a takes about a week for me to put together their program and their program is a training program and a nutrition plan and not like I will give sample meal plans. So, here's a day of what this type of eating looks like for X person. Um, but it's not like you have to eat this at four o'clock and you have to measure it exactly blah blah blah. I try to make it sustainable so that they can take these skills and apply them forever. Um, so put together the program. Every week I send out an update form, weight, measurements, you know, how are things going? Do you have upcoming events? Maybe you're in a wedding and there's going to be like a bachelor party, groom's dinner, whatever. How can we navigate that? Um, and yeah, so the weekly updates and it depends on the person, but maybe they'll get a new training phase in four weeks or maybe they're an intermediate, they're making awesome progress, they're getting stronger and we'll stay with the same type of programming for eight or 10 or 12 weeks. Kind of varies from person to person. I got you. How long and how often do you contact that? How when you're doing that, how often do you like talk to them or do you or is it all email? All email based. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah. So, so you sample meal plan and then they follow you see what's working and you see what's not and you make adjustments accordingly. Is that is that how Yeah. And and and like I will it depends on the client again like some person is like some people just aren't going to be able to follow exact macronutrients regularly or even get close just because they're so busy. Some people's brain just doesn't work like that. Like counting things out exactly doesn't make sense. So, we'll go to a more generic, you know, keep calories about in this range and then follow a few rules. Try to eat two servings of vegetables a day. Try to sub out like this fatty protein source for this leaner protein source. Making those swaps that are essentially going to put them in a better position. Have them because, you know, 80 or 90% of my clients, their primary goal is fat loss or to look better. Um, so it's making sure they're in a deficit. have them following a strength training program that makes sense for them, what kind of equipment they have access to, what they like doing. Um, and yeah, going from there and adjusting from there based on whether it's working or not. So, so it's uh it's based on so at the assessment is how you make the protocol. So, it's not like a one-sizefits-all kind of thing. It's like base it off with the their goals and what they like or the their goals, what they're doing, like how much time they have. So you might have someone who is a workaholic. I'll give you an example like this girl accountant who works 70 80 hours a week but she wants to be working out for an hour and a half a day too. And it's like given everything that's going on in your life, given how little you're sleeping right now and how stressed you are, it would be better to make your workouts a little bit shorter. Take that time and like go chill out. Go have a glass of wine once in a while. sleep an extra hour and like actually recover. Um, and you're going to see better results. You're going to feel better. Yeah, exactly. Because her cortisol levels are like up here. In fact, a couple weeks ago or last week, I was like, "Look, we're not working out this week at all. I want you to legit take a oneweek training break. I want you to sleep really well every night and just brought her calories up a little bit." And she emailed me at the end of the week was like, "I didn't believe you when you said this, but I actually am down a pound and like I feel a lot better." Exactly. Yo, I want I want people to start saying that, man. Like this I said online. I Yo, keep the cortisol low instead of chill, you know. Yeah, right. I want spreading it around, you know? That's like that's my gift. That's my gift to uh the world. Like I want I wanted to spread like uh like off the off the hook or like [\h__\h] on a shame wax or something like that. I wanted That's That's how you reach the non-fitness population too, right? Like you make it a a household saying keep the low. I'll start spreading it, bro. It too. Gary wants to buy the Jets. I want people to start saying, "Hey, keep the keep low. Keep it low." And then to actually do it. Well, listen. The Jets is just He's going to get a deal. He's going whatever it is. Listen, being a Jets fan is not good for keeping the cortisol up. No. No. You're from You're from Minnesota, you said. Yes. Okay. You lived in Chicago? I'm from Chicago. Oh, really? Yeah, man. Southside. Okay. I lived in uh in Wrigley for like eight months. Yeah. All right. Kind of near the stadium. Yeah. And now you live everywhere or like where where's like based? No. Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan. Oh, man. That's where That's where it's so crazy because that's where our apartment was last week in the la last week's office setup. Yeah. Last week's office was in this building called the Mercedes building right in Hell's Kitchen. Yeah. Are you guys finding some nice apartment gyms to be able to do stuff out of? No, some of them are like the one in Hell's Kitchen was [\h__\h] awesome. But we we found out we had uh this one is kind of cool. This one's cool. This one's cool. It's all it's Airbnb until we find like until we like really, you know, it takes a minute to find a uh it's probably spending. We're spending way too much money, right? But whatever. It ain't tricking if you got it right. So, we're trying to find the the one that the one that's the find the right space and then when All right, this is home base because you can't see the they're over here with their headphones on like it's got a Got it. I got the the uh the is the intern over there. I got Yeah, the intern's right here. And then that's nice. And then you know we people come in there but we have a it's good to have a central location. But was it Gary has an office in Hell's Kitchen? Gary's office is in Flat Iron technically. Um and then my apartment is in Hell's Kitchen. Gary actually lives on the Upper East Side where you are now. And so his apartment gym is Yeah. Why didn't she just tell us to meet up? Why Why did she do it? I know. I know. Um, but speaking of apartment gyms, we literally got to the point this morning where so his dumbbells go up to 75s, which is which is pretty decent for like a hotel gym, apartment gym. Um, but now on the flat dumbbell bench, he just banged out his work sets of five reps with 75s. And so now we we're gonna have to like order new dumbbells. I don't know what we're going to do. That's crazy. You know what? I have some I have some at home. Like sometimes I work at home and my dumbbells go up to 100. They're adjustable. Okay. The power blocks are one of those. No, man. The cheaper ones. They're all But they're all chrome, so they look kind of cool. The power blocks, man. Thing. If one thing breaks on it, like I' i've seen it happen like or like even the the the the the Bow Flex one. If one thing break Well, first of all, Yeah. If one thing breaks, then it's like the whole thing is like you're screwed. Yeah. I'll just get mine to be all iron and it'll last forever. Nice. And those work well? Yeah, they work well. I mean, it's like it's uh I'd rather go to the to a gym, but like a lot of times I work out. It's just, you know, just out of convenience. It's easier to just work out at home and and Yeah, I hear you. I I like to have the option. I have the option. Quick pump day or like go get a Yeah, I mean go going to 100 is I mean that's I mean that's pretty good, you know, like if you Yeah. Yeah. I didn't I a hundreds is no pump. Damn. A lot of women. Okay, Mike. You need They don't make dumbbells. Pick it up. I I get a lot of women who work out at home who don't like the power blocks just because they're kind of clunky and like awkward shaped. So, I'll I'll start suggesting the the chrome. No, no, don't. They look Oh, really? They look really cool, but they uh they're just like like they get f like the power bus way more convenient and easy. They might make the dumbbell the the the the bow flex ones. Those look cooler, you know, whatever. Yeah. But how how many clients are you able to take on at once with the online thing? Is there is there a limit? Is there a point of diminishing returns? Yeah, absolutely. And the point of diminishing returns is when I can't provide as good a service like or when I um am like running out of time, right? So Gary takes an hour of a day with the workouts and then another hour and a half where I'm making sure he has food, but between meals, like I'm just hanging out and I'm working. So coaching is my full-time job. And whether I want to be working 40 hours a week or I want to be working 60 hours a week depends on how many clients I have basically because that's what I'm spending most of my time doing is communicating with them. Um so I like when I first started I I mean when I first started and actually had clients I had around eight or 10 and that was super overwhelming for me just because I I didn't have systems in place. I like I I hadn't done it. I wasn't experienced at it. Um, but now I can take on 40 or 50 clients and feel good and feel like I can provide good service for everyone and like I'm responding to email every single day. I can be on point with that. So, it just depends on how busy I am and how much time I want to be working. This might be self-indulgent, but what are the systems? What a free consultation. This is what happens. This is all elaborate plot. No. and then I'm going to sell you and then I'm going to like make charge you for my systems. Systems was probably a bad word because I don't like my systems are Microsoft Excel and like my thought processes. But to give you some examples, um, like the information I include in a a client's profile, I I used to if I was replying to an email, I might have to look back and dig up their weight at a certain date or like their starting weight or um, I don't know, measurements just like from their recent update forms just so I I get a feel for where they are. Now I include all relevant information within their profile. So I I have this profile, I have the email, and I can look and know everything about them. And if like something important comes up or something I really want to remember for them, they have something they need help with a wedding coming up and they want to jam on like, "All right, how am I going to navigate this and not like completely blow my diet and have 5,000 calories a day?" Throw that in there so I remember so I can bring it up before that date. So like keeping all relevant information in the same spot and you're like this isn't a system. This is just like common sense. That is good. There's a lot I mean because I I know a lot of my my viewers are are trainers so like people would be interested in hearing this like how how do you like and I know how I would mark like if I market it I'll just send an email but but to to to the list but if you're a trainer starting out how would you get into this sort of training as opposed to being in the gym? um having eyeballs on you somewhere on the internet and whether that means having a billion YouTube views or whatever or like writing or um like any podcasting is huge now obviously so bringing guests on like anywhere where you can help people and add value and they find you and want your help. So providing like working hard and providing free content, right? Having a blog, YouTube channel, Instagram, you know, whatever it is. You probably learn a you learn a little bit of that from Gary, right? He knows something about it, right? He knows a little something. I think just a little. He actually So I started doing this jab uppercut. Jab upper hook got hook. That's my spin on it. That's my book that I'm coming out with. It's jab jab. That's the combo. Yeah. Yeah. Cut is like I don't I don't know what that means yet, but I'll figure it out. I hope I now that I think about it, I just got a text. I hope I don't get a call while we're on this because I got my phone. That's right. On the phone. Yeah. I mean, no one I feel like no one calls anymore. It's all text. Yeah. I hope people don't call me. Like I My phone doesn't even ring. I don't even remember the last time it rang. Like it I don't I don't I keep it on uh like I've been I've been going the last few years I've been trying to train everyone in my life to text me only and it's starting to work. It's starting to work and my mom finally got it when she texts call me and I call her but I don't and then you call and and it might be 10 minutes later or a half hour later but yeah you get to control when Yeah. I don't like the interruption like calling is like oh now I I gotta talk to you now because you called me. Even if I get it and like random numbers, I'm never answering random numbers. It's just it's like never Sometimes I don't check voicemails for many weeks either. Colin's gonna die. I don't even have my voicemail set up. Don't leave Don't leave me voicemail. I can't leave you voicemails. No, no, no, no. I mean, I think it's it's probably full. Like this person's voicemail is full and I've never checked. I never plan on it. Like couldn't have called me in the first place. You knew better. You knew the protocol. Yeah. Don't take it to the next level and leave a voicemail. Yeah. This is me though. Like that's how like I I I went It took a long time to get to this place where I can avoid human contact. Humans are the worst. Oh man, it sucks, bro. That's why I like your business model, man. Because you don't have to talk nobody. It's like internet. Yo, it could be goddamn robot. We can find to find a robot to just do it and program all the answers. I mean, listen, if I I might if you figure out how, let me know. I'm gonna hire like the Google Me and you need to go over to to Soho the Google headquart [\h__\h] nerds, man. They'll do it for like a thousand dollars. They'll come up with some algorithm for us. I swear. I uh to your question, like to you said you have a lot of trainers that that follow that watch. Um, I actually just met with a girl last week who's training in a gym on the Upper East Side and wants to do more online. And it's really just, and you know this because you do it. It's about putting out helpful content regularly. Exactly. Like consistently. Like you can't post once every three weeks and expect to gain any traction doing that, especially early on. has to be, you know, not necessarily every day, but as often as you can when it's good and when it's helpful. And like I hate to say this because it's really vain, but you should, if you're trying to teach people to be in shape, you should be in shape because that's going to like people are just going to believe you and respect you more. Not everyone who's ripped is smart, but it it is going to allow you to have more eyeballs. Um, credibility, right? You you want to the walk. People want to believe you walk the walk, you know. Exactly. But and if you are use like use the channels that allow you to display that use video, use photo and let that be known. Um personal trainer is like a homeless success coach, you know. What's that? A overweight personal trainer is like a homeless success coach. Yeah. Yeah. You got to walk the walk, man. You gota you got to be uh qualified to teach what you're teaching, you know? I think I I completely agree and even if I didn't agree like the market has spoke, right? Like you don't you don't you don't see pe like someone who isn't in shape with a huge following for training just Yeah. Unless it's like like and what I've noticed for me is like there's all social media. I mean there's different different different venues have different protocols similar but the main thing is just post stuff that people like all the time like as people how do you build a big follow like like when I got to a million Facebook followers everybody's like how you get to a million how you I just post stuff that people I just kind of tested to keep trying things find out when they like when they found when I found the stuff they like I just started flooding them with it and then giving them more of it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Give people what they want man. find what they want and give it to them and seems to and and they'll share it and tell their friends and Yeah. Yeah. I mean Yeah. And that's I mean that's basically, you know, that's that's that's crush it in one sentence, right? Yeah. It's true. It's true. Find something you like and and just do it. Yeah. It was a good book, man. Like I remember like that that that that book like when I first was about to start going online, I bought Crush It same day. I remember I remember like Crush It and 4H hour work week the same day. Yeah. Yeah. And those two books. Yeah. They were influential for me. What what have you learned from Gary that maybe like we that or what have you seen or something that's that's like oh man this is what I this is this was valuable just from being around him. Yeah. So, one thing I have noticed from being around him, I mean, every single day outside of like 10 days for the last 14 months, I never understood how hard someone could work. Like, I I used to believe you'll see things like willpower is is limited and you can only work productively six hours a day and then your brain like just goes to mush and so like make it a good six hours and then do whatever. just even research or studies that say things like that. He has just completely changed that for me. Like he literally goes, we train at 6:00 a.m. almost every day and his schedule is packed until 11 or midnight. He'll have drinks at 6, drinks at 7, like these networking business meetings like dinner. Sometimes he'll have two dinners in a night going to some kind of event late at night and then he'll sleep. You know, sleep varies from person to person, right? like some people somehow get by on five or six hours. Other people need seven or eight. Um but actually utilizing and be efficient with every hour in the day that you want to put towards work. I get that there needs to be a balance, but he showed me that that was possible when I think going into it I thought I was working hard and I really wasn't. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So my that's what that's the same thing my intern says about you. Yeah. He was like the same thing. You know this is live, right? Yeah, man. See, he's learning. He's learning. Say, you just got to say it so it's audible. Yeah. Come over here. Come over here. Give me praise. Give me praise. Say it. Say it. Say it. Say it. I I I thought the same exact thing when I started working with him like exactly the same thing you said the dinner like using dinners to network waking up early in the morning going to sleep optimally like there's no free time whatsoever like it's all work we we never had we had TVs here never all right now get back to work right yeah no no but that like that's cool that's that's just a testament to the fact that you're doing it right like you're living it you're putting in the You're being effective with your time obviously and and teaching him which is great. Yeah, man. That's like uh it was uh what I what I want to say uh I forgot. Yeah. What happened? I I have a question for you. What's up? What uh what drives you to like create so much and do so much? Uh like and there's not like one answer but some of the things I think it's well for me man I think it's like it might be a a fear right like it might not be I don't know if it's healthy like I'm I'm at the point where like I don't know if it's mentally healthy right because uh it's it might be like a fear of uh of uh going back to poverty like I want to make to a point where like it's like it's not it's not possible to and then but it's that so like that's that's a fear right but like you know like what Freud says right everybody's ether doing they're trying to avoid pain and move towards pleasure right so that would be the fear the pain part but in the in the the pleasure part is like there's there's a lot of where I where I'm from right there's a lot of there's not a lot of hope like I know those kids don't feel like they can they can accomplish and or even like like live, you know, like to be my age, right? It's not something they think about or so it's like I I I'd like for people or kids from where I'm from or buyers from where I'm from and be like, "Oh man, I can be successful without being a rapper or or a basketball player, right?" So like that's that's like that's a big motivation for me. Showing people that it can be done, helping them get there and like and literally changing lives for the better. Yeah, that's that's it really does. Like there's not a lot of precedence for that like you know. Yeah. My community. That's awesome. That that's awesome. You're putting in the work too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I mean this is the point where I think it's like do you think it's compulsive, man? Like do you think like honestly honestly do you think like even Gary you don't have to [\h__\h] on your boss but like mentally healthy like like sometimes I think like man like I I I I I don't I could not stop like I I'm not in control. I don't think I'm in control anymore. I don't think I can stop like it's not as noble as it sounds, right? It's like this is a compulsion. Um I I don't think it's unhealthy because when I look at the other end of the spectrum, it's like you are doing so much more. Your impact is so much greater than if you were not to be working. Uh okay, I thought we disconnected. Um so and and and like honestly, all right, here's an example. People work their whole lives to retire, right? and when they retire they just don't have to do anything and that seems like this luxury. Um, I think that people are more I think people are happier and I think they are more mentally stable when they are working, when they are doing something, when they're creating something, when they're building something than being at the point where they're just like sitting in like lounging just watching 10 hours a day of like Fox News and like arguing about politics and just like letting like when the brain becomes less active when you're not working, I think that puts people in a bad place. And whether that means you're 70 years old like that or um you're trying to live this balanced life and only working six or seven or eight hours a day with an hour lunch break, you know, screwing around in the afternoon and then you go home and from 5 until you go to bed, it's like have three beers, watch TV, whatever. Like your brain is rotting. You could be having an impact during that time. Now, do you have to be working? No, of course not. Everyone can choose their own path. But to say that it's obsessive or to allude to the fact that it's bad to work a lot is just silly to me. Oh, all right. Okay. Yeah. So, no, I don't to to get really serious on No, that's good. That's good, man. You've uh I don't I don't think it's an obsession. Or if it is, I don't think it's bad. Oh, okay. No, it is an obsession. But I'm glad I appreciate that. That I don't think it's bad. Yeah. Yeah, man. It's like I don't know like uh but even like hearing that story like you talking about how how he much he works. I'm like damn I could be doing more but I don't think I can because I need more sleep. I just know like I I'm I I function like last night I didn't for whatever reason I couldn't sleep you know. I took uh some workout too late when I wor when I uh and I worked out late. Yep. We worked at like what we were at like 11 yesterday. Yeah. We were at like 11 yesterday and I think that's too late for me to take pre-workout and I couldn't really sleep. So, I know I'm not optimal today. So, I can't Got it. And And how much did you sleep? Oh, you just didn't sleep well. How much you normally sleep? Man, I sleep I try to get I try I really try if if I I prefer to get nine hours of sleep a day, but I get probably seven or eight. Like on average, I'm like somewhere between seven and eight. But I know that's not optimal. That's not optimal. But I've if I would if I I'm not as serious about my fitness goals right now. Like it's kind like it's some it's like it's not at the forefront. I prioritize business right now. And but when I but like I I do it in seasons. I don't know if this makes sense. So like later like later in this like probably the fourth quarter of the year I'll prioritize fitness and maybe the first quarter too and then I'll be sleeping nine 10 hours a night. Yeah. because and then I'll go back and then at spring as spring and then then for the rest of the year I'll probably prioritize business and but I'm at a point where I I I'm comfortable with to do that if that makes sense. Yeah. Maintaining with your physique and like really focusing on trying to grow the business. I hear I'm actually the same way except recently I've been super into fitness for myself for the first time in like two years. Um, so I'm I'm trying to sleep at least eight, nine hours when I can get it and dedicate like I put my training time in my most productive time. So midm morning I'll go get the workout in when the gym's not super busy. Um, eating a lot, trying to put on some size and strength. So that's that's funny that I've never heard of anyone else doing that. Like shifting between fitness and business goals. Yeah, I can I can tell I can I can tell. Look at your face. It looks clear. You look fresh face. Every time the face squishes, it looks like the [\h__\h] grim reaper, you know, like my older ass. Look at I don't know about that, bro. Exacerbates how [\h__\h] sleepy I am. Yeah, man. No, just b just bury it with caffeine. But then you get the endless cycle and then the next night sleep's no good. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I like that that that's weird, right? because I was like, "All right, well, the only thing that's going to I I had too much caffeine and I stayed up and the only thing that's gonna fix that is more caffeine, you know?" Yeah. Yeah. Just end the cycle. It's AI got I'mma stop at like I'mma work out early today and earlier today and then try to end it. I'mma really really tire myself out when I work out today trying to need it and put yourself to bed. Yeah. You know what? You know what else? Let me ask you a question. Like I'm cutting right now because we're going to Olympia uh next week. We got a booth for our supplement company and I'm going to like that's what we're doing here. Like we we supplement Bro Laboratories and we have a pre-workout fat burner. We have a bunch of other products coming out this this Oh, nice. Yeah. Yeah. But so I I want to be ripped. We got a booth at the Olympia. I'm gonna be posing with people and those those pictures are gonna live forever, right, on the internet. And um but I I haven't been you know my my I'm in like a a deficit you know serious deficit. Do you find you don't sleep as well when you're in the deficit when you're when you're finding depend depends how for me it depends how long I've been in the deficit because if if I've been dieting for a long time um and stress levels are even higher then yes absolutely. But if I were to transition from gaining muscle and like in my first few weeks in a deficit after I'd been in a surplus for three months, I think I would be okay. Um but in general, yeah, a huge deficit and worse sleep makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that I think I'm experiencing that too. Yeah. But but it's worth it to for those pictures. Yeah. because you know like man people think like oh man Brandon Brand is Brandon all flabby in person bro what's the highest what's the highest body fat percent you've been in the last like couple years maybe 14 12 or 14 somewhere in that range Oh really? Yeah. Have you and have you not had abs in the last few years? No. Yeah. Right. So like my my abs are like I spent time like building like building them up to make them extra thick, right? With like weight weighted ab stuff. So like I think I they show through at higher body fat percent. What' you say? So they show through at a higher body fat percent than like most people. Got it. Got it. Yeah. Well, most guys flatten out, but mine are like little eight little fist and like punch through the fat. Are you where you want to be as far like getting lean for Vegas? Uh, no. Next week I will be though. It's usually It's usually like the second or third week. I only need to cut for like two or three weeks to really I'm never more than two weeks. Two. That's what that's kind of like how Yeah. From being like photo shoot ready, right? So, but it's like next week. Next week that's when it really Yeah. I'll be good. Nice, man. I want to try that pre-workout. I'm gonna order some. Where can I get some? Yeah. Yeah. Uh Brian, you throw me the rebellion. Thanks, man. Oh, is Rebellion pre free pre-workout. Uh popping ch flavor is the only flavor we got that's out and you get on Amazon or bro Laboratories.com. Little little product placement in there. Little product placement. I didn't even mean to do that. But hey, listen, it worked. So, like I couldn't sleep it off. Like it works, you know. Awesome. To to a to a to my detriment last night, you know. I uh I actually need a good pre-workout. Right now, I'm training fasted and so I'm like I'll have coffee and then I'll have some branched chain amino acids, but I don't have a pre-workout I like right now. So, yeah. Oh, man. How long you gonna be in New York? the foresee like at least another year. Oh, I mean like I didn't mean like how long you live there. I mean like when do you leave? Like are you going to be in town for like tomorrow because I can bring it to you. Oh no, I'll I'll buy some. Um I I'm happy to support you. I uh but yeah, I think I'm going to Indie for the Jets, you know, Jets Colts in Indie. So it's like Gary's going there, I'm going there. That's that's in a week and a half. He has season tickets. I mean, he has season tickets. He has he has season tickets and then he goes to like a handful of road games a year. That's what I want to do with the Bulls. Chicago Bulls, you know. That's my team. You know, you big Bulls fan. Yeah. I don't want to buy it though. I don't have too much responsibility. Like it's like like I love it too much that I don't want to I don't want to I don't want to like take care of it, you know? Like I want to bar How uh you're How old are you? I'm 30. I'll be 33 next week. Like pimping. So you grew you grew up in the in the Jordan era. Yeah. Yeah. I grew up in the I grew up in the 90. How old are you, man? I'm 28. Oh man, look at here young fella. I tell you what, when you're my age, four I don't know if you can say that on four years. Can you? Yo, man, that's cool, man. Like I like you know what I like? I've never had like I've been a trainer for over 10 years. I never had 40 clients. That's interesting. Yeah, man. People asked me to do online training, but I never I never did I did I did coaching like life coaching like for a minute. I experiment with that and that was kind of fun because I talk to them for two hours. But your your your thing is different a lot and I was talking to um what's his name man the I don't you know I was talking to someone else about that too you know that's something we might be I might be implementing in the future. Yeah, feel free to hit me up about like I'm happy to help however I can. Like my systems, like I said, aren't like systems. I need that uh uh what did you do last week system? Oh, this is how much you weigh? Okay. Yeah, what you weigh? I'm I'm have I'm gonna have a algorithm. Um but uh yo listen tell tell the people where they can get in touch with you and if if they want to training or they just want to hear read some more of your stuff or just check out where where's the best place to contact. Yeah absolutely. So I mean if you punch my name in Google Mike Vicanti uh my website will come up. I have a bunch of information on my blog is helpful. I'm also trying to get into the YouTube thing. I've been doing a show where I compare like foods that you know foods that most people think are healthy when really they're just calories that add up very quickly and if you're not keeping track end up trying to lose weight but not losing weight like I don't know like granola for example a bowl of granola that has like 700 calories isn't probably a great way to start your day for fat loss. So comparing that to a food that people know isn't very healthy just to see those like calorie macronutrient numbers. So YouTube Mike McCandi too. Oh no, that that'd be good. I'm interested in that be well not interested but I'm glad that that's happening like because like I [\h__\h] hate when people say, "Oh man, I eat healthy because it's like most time it's it's arbitrary, right? It's just like they don't know what they're talking about and I don't mean in a Well, yeah. They don't know what they're talking about. It's like and it's like it's good to educate them with that, you know. Thank you. Yeah, it's it's going well. I'm liking it. Yeah. All right. All right, everybody check that I'll put the links in the description, man. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, man. All right. Yeah. This is fun. All right, bro. Later.