 I don't know if this is a tactic that the hustlers are still implementing in the streets, but back in the 80s, when an aspiring dope dealer wanted to establish his business in a new region, maybe a new corner, a lot of times you would find the fiends or the junkies, and as he introduced himself to these potential clients, give them like one rock for free. Get a junkie a rock. And if this guy knew what he was doing, that rock was cooked well, he didn't step on it too much. right? So he had an air, right? So he had an with junkies. So the junkies would spread the lure of this new young hustler with the quality rocks. And other junkies would come to him looking for a similar product. I imagine when they come to him, it looked a lot like the Thriller video. You know what I'm saying? Looking for that rock. Anyway, I don't know if that's a tactic that still implements it. I'm old. I was born in 82. Old school. That was a tried and true method for one to establish himself in the dope game. Get himself some clientele. Also, I remember when I was starting my first online fitness business. This is all going to make sense. Just walk with me. When I was first starting my online fitness business, I didn't have a lot of money for advertising and I didn't have the know-how at the time. And the only way I could actually really get myself out there was with social media. So, I would give out workout advice. Free workouts on YouTube. Free workouts. Free workout advice. Recipes. Diet advice. The whole nine. Give people as much stuff as they could for free. And then here's the thing. Sometimes people would want to work with me closer, more closely. They wouldn't want me to actually train them. Because it's one thing to get the knowledge from someone, right? But knowledge is not enough to... It's oftentimes not enough to accomplish your goals, right? If knowledge was all you needed, then every librarian would be a fucking billionaire, right? It's implementation that people need help with. Especially now. Like, knowledge is... Knowledge is everywhere. But any help with is the implementation. And so, I would sell online coaching. But here's the thing. In both cases, the dope dealer and Brandon Carter, the online trainer, I'm giving away... Each... Each individual is giving away something free to potential clients. And then the clients come back wanting more. And that's how the business gets built. Why do I say that? Because that's how you can get anything you want. You gotta give shit away first. This is the secret. You may have heard this before. You know, I think Jim... Jim Rohn or Zig Ziglar, one of them old, timey, white, self-help guys, they said, you can get anything you want if you help other people get what they want. And a lot of you guys, if you're not new to self-help, you've heard that before. But I don't think you've really internalized it. I don't think you understand that it is the key to everything. Business, relationships, success, everything. It's the number one key. I remember being a child and, you know, it was a friend of mine and he was having a birthday party or some fucking shit. And I didn't want it to go because I wanted to do something else. My mom was like, Brandon, if you want to have good friends, you better be a good friend. And that was a bar. You know what I'm saying? That was a bar. And I went to the birthday party, you know, you know, whatever. It's like that with everything. If you want to, if you want to have friends, if you want people to be nicer to you, be nice to them first. It's all about giving first. Right? That's the point I'm trying to make. Whatever you want, give shit away first. Give stuff away first. If you want people to be nice to you, be nice to them first. If you want people to be kind to you, be kind to them first. If you want customers, give them, give them stuff for free first. You get what I'm saying? If you want to, I don't know. This is weird because I know like the red pill guys, you'd say, man, you don't buy, you a simp if you give, if you give a, if you even take a girl to dinner, man. But I know in my experience, man, you want some pussy, man, wine and dine this hoe, man, then take her home. You know, like, listen, I'm old school though, man. I know, I know you guys, you red pill guys, you red pill manosphere guys. Y'all don't fuck with chivalry. You know, but in my experience, being nice to bitches gets you more pussy. But then again, I look like me. So maybe it's not applicable to you. Anyway, anything you want, give it first. Like, you, you have to be, I read a book a little time ago for you who wrote it, but it's called Go Giver. And it's about this. You want it to habit. I'm going to break this down how you can do this. But you need to build the habit of freely giving, stuff away to people. And not just things. Because there's more, you can give them more than just physical things. You can give people time. You can give people advice. You can give people connections. You can give people info. Right? So, for example, let me give you, let me give you some more examples of how you can do this. But, before I give you the examples, I need you to understand, you need to be like this with everyone or else it's fake. And people can tell when it's fake. It's something about it. If you only do it to the people who you feel like can help you, then you're going to look like a kiss-ass bitch nigga. You know what I'm saying? Like, people can feel that shit. You need to be nice and giving and generous to everyone. And you don't have to be generous with money or physical things that cost you money. It could be just energy, man, compliments, whatever. You need to be like this with everyone you come across. It needs to be a habit. You fucking janitors, doormen. Like, I legit say what's up to the janitors in my building. You know what I'm saying? The doormen, I fucking give panels and shit, you know? Like, people at the valet, like, I show love to everybody, even if they can't help me. Because it needs to be a habit. And not everybody's going to be able to help you. This is very important. Not everyone's going to be able to help you. But just look at it like, what happens is if you're like this with everybody, people will start wanting to do stuff for you and when you need to ask people for things or you need to try to get things from people, it's going to be so much easier for them to say yes to you. Because you are known for the person who's helpful, useful, giving, generous. If you're the motherfucker who's just trying to take it, it won't work. I'm going to show you some of the things you can do in this video. Just pay attention. But you need to understand that this is the key. Because people, they ask me shit like, yo, how do I grow my followers? Like, nigga, why should people follow you? Answer the question. Why should people follow you? What the fuck is it about you that's worthy to follow? I might not get that aggressive, but you get what I'm saying. It's like, if you can't answer that, you don't deserve followers. You know what I'm saying? People say, how do I network with high, how do I network with high level people, with high net worth individuals? You're asking the wrong question, man. You need to ask yourself, what can you offer to high net worth individuals? Because here's the thing, if you don't have anything to offer, then you're really not trying to network, are you? You're trying to siphon value from these people. You get what I'm saying? But if you start asking, man, what can I do? What can I offer to these people that they would find useful? If you can be useful, it'd be easy to network with people. If you're useful, if you provide value, it'd be easy to grow your following. You get what I'm saying? Tell you, man. All right. What are some things you can offer? And I'm going to focus on things that are free for you to do or low cost because it's not always about money. For example, y'all know Dan Martell? He's got like 2 million YouTube subscribers now. Fucking crazy, man. He's got like 2 million Instagram followers. When I met him, he had none of that. He was just starting out under 100,000 followers on the gram. Under 100,000 YouTube subscribers. He was just trying to figure this shit out. And we were both speaking at an event. And he found out I was speaking. He invited me to dinner with him and some of the homies. And then, you know, I'm trying to pay for it. You know, we're done. We're having a good time. I'm trying to pay for it. And he's like, no, no, no, don't pay for it, right? He's being, again, he's being generous, right? With everyone. And here's the thing. Dan wasn't really trying to get anything from me. That's the thing. He wasn't trying to get anything. This is just who he is. Right? And then he's over here introducing me to people I don't know. Right? Giving me contacts. He gave me some contacts for some things that were helpful for me. He was asking, man, is there anything I can help you with, man? You know, like, he's that kind of person, like a good guy. Right? And he's never asked me for nothing. He's just, that's just who he is. Now, here's the thing. Dan, this was before he was popular on social media. Even then, I got money, man. I got money. Y'all see how I live, man. Like, I got money, right? Dan got more money than me. Dan got a plane. I ain't got no fucking plane. Yo, we was in Vegas, man. And he was like, yeah, man, I'm staying a few days, man. It was too hot for my plane to take off. I was like, damn, man. What airline you fly? They were, they canceling the planes. No, no, no. It's too hot for my plane to take off. He wasn't talking about no commercial shit, you know? Right? But what I noticed is this, so this motherfucker's like really rich and just really a good dude. He's helpful for everybody. He's helped me out. Never asked me for nothing. But here's the thing. Even if he didn't get famous or all this stuff, if you would have asked me for something, I'd be super excited to help him because he's always been kind and helpful to me. Does that make sense? Right? So, just from that example, right, what was he doing? Well, obviously, one of the things that he was helping me with was like connections, right? If you got connections, if you can be a person who can connect people to others, people find that helpful. For example, when Ty Lopez was really like at the top of his game, you know what I'm saying? when Ty was fucking out here getting his money. Like, when Ty was the man, not to say he's not the man now, but you know what I mean, when he was at his apex, Ty Lopez. I was really cool with, I don't want to say this person's name, but I don't know what this person got going on, so I'm just going to be, I'm going to be coy with how I describe who this is. Somebody on his team. I became really good friends with someone on his team. And, and, I introduced this dude to a bunch of girls that I know. I have a lot of female friends. I know you red pill guys say female friends is gay. You guys need to grow up. Anyway, I got a lot of female friends, right? Bad bitches, you know, like fucking, like legit models. And when I say models, like they on billboards and magazines. Not these, this is like, not these hoes who just got model in their fucking bio bio on Instagram and ain't never been in a magazine. Like, no, no, he sells on billboards, like real models in New York City shit, you know? And, um, these are my friends. And, I introduced him to a bunch of these chicks and like, I'm not going to say who he was, right? But, you know, they, um, he started dating some of them. Some of them he would like date and it was dope for, for the female friends too because they get to kick it with a baller, you know, get flued out places and do baller shit with a cool dude, you know? And, um, and that was just me being, hey man, hey man, you know, helping both my friends, both the girl and the homie on Ty's team, right? Ty had came out with this program and it did like a bunch of money. It did like over a million dollars in like a week. It was like a huge launch. And, then he took, he closed the cart. He didn't have it anymore. No one could do it. He wasn't selling it. And then, I'm at, I'm at a Knicks game with Ty and one of his boys and I was like, yo man, why don't y'all let me run? Y'all should let me run JV for this shit. JV means a joint ventures deal. Like, I think I took it off but let me just, let me promote it. And, and a lot of times with a joint venture or a JV deal, what happens is the two people, maybe, if I'm doing a joint venture deal with someone, I'll promote their self to my audience and then we'll, we'll split the profit. Right? And a lot of times I'll add stuff to it, like stuff that I have, you know, I'll add stuff to it. Anyway, I was like, let's run a JV deal, man. Come on. You know? And, he still could have said no but I was the only one they did a JV deal with with this thing after it did two million in like a week or some shit, you know? Something like that. And, we made a ton of money, man. We made a ton of money and people loved it and, it was dope, right? But, had I not been so generous up until that point, I don't know if I get that deal done. You know what I'm saying? These are examples. These are examples. But, here's the thing, I wasn't generous, this is what I'm saying, I wasn't generous thinking, I'm going to get something out of this. I'm generous in general knowing that, not knowing how, but knowing in general if I'm just generous to everybody, I know it'll come back to me in some capacity, right? If nothing else, if nothing else, you just have the reputation as a cool ass motherfucker who's super helpful. You get what I'm saying? Like, the only people who talk shit about me are the people who don't know me. You never see nobody who knows me talking shit about me, man. Everybody who knows me speaks highly of me, right? Because I got this reputation that I've cultivated over the last 15 years as internet personality, you know? Only people who talk shit about me, people who like never met me, you know what I'm saying? And they just, I hear making assumptions on shit, right? So, you just need to be like that all the time. So, that's one thing, you can be a connector, networking, like putting people together, putting people in the right places to do different things, you know? And I can come up with tons of other examples for that, but that's, that's a good one, right? That's one thing you can do. If you have a certain skill set, this, this is, this is, this is important. If you have certain skills, get sets, certain domain expertise in some capacity, people will find that valuable. You get what I'm saying? For example, one of my boys, the dude named Jelani, he's, I mean, I know a lot, I, I'm, I'm good with AI. I know a lot of AI stuff. I, I built AI apps. I can, I can do a lot with AI. I'm way more than the average person. You know, I'm like a power user, but Jelani is like that dude when it comes to AI shit, you know? Like he's like a software, he's a real software engineer, right? I'm a guy who fucking likes AI a lot. He's a real software engineer. So, you know, Jelani, everybody in our, in our friend group, we lean on Jelani for AI advice, you know, AI, AI stuff, you know, he's super generous because he enjoys talking about it. But here's the thing, because Jelani has helped me with AI stuff so much, like he's put me on to different tools, like as soon as they came out, I had a problem with this application I was coding for my students. I was putting together this like tool for my students and, and HTT and I was having an issue with it and he, he just got on, hopped on Zoom and fixed it for me. But if I took control of my computer and just fixed it from abroad, right? He's just that type of dude. Here's the thing, every time somebody comes to me saying, yo, listen, I need a guy, I need somebody to set up this AI thing for me. Like this happened recently. One of my boys, I was like, yo, I got exactly who, I got the exact person for you. I was going with Jelani. And because Jelani has helped me so much, I'm super, two things. Not only am I excited to help Jelani when, you know, when I find a deal for him, but also the people who I find, who I hook him up with, I already trust Jelani's work because he helped me already once. Kind of like the dope dealer, right? The dope fiends, they, oh, this is good crack rock. Let me tell the homies that this is where we can get the good crack rock. Right? Jelani is nice with the AI shit. He's helped actually help me do shit with AI. So now one of my other boys needs some AI shit. I feel confident recommending my boy Jelani, right? And I'm excited to help Jelani because a lot of times, you know, my friends are rich. So they'll, they're going to, they're going to pay Jelani either a consultant fee or they're going to pay him to do shit for him. And this is, from what I understand, this has made Jelani a good amount of money. You know what I'm saying? Right? So domain expertise, and it can be in anything, you know, I just want to give you the AI example. Another thing you can be generous with is like, I'm trying to figure out how to put this. Just your, it could be your time. Like you can invest time into someone. False. Right? Or you can like care. For example, here's an example. This is like, this may seem like lower stakes, but it is going to make sense. Sigmund Freud, he's the father of modern psychology, right? He's also kind of a weirdo, but he's a, you know, we wouldn't have psychology if it wasn't him. His patients would frequently fall in love with him. And one of the reasons they would fall in love with him so much is because all he did was ask him about himself, ask him, them about them. Right? And they, so they would talk to Sigmund Freud about themselves for hours. Everybody's favorite subject is themselves. Right? So if you can, when you're having conversations, you can ask, if you like folks on asking that person about them, they're going to like you more, but it's also, it's almost like a gift, right? Because most people want to have a conversation. They're like so excited to say what I, what they can do or what they got going on and talk about themselves. It's rare to meet somebody who wants you to talk about you. You know what I'm saying? And who's actually listening and not on their fucking phone or distracted by some shit, but asking you like inquisitive, asking you about you. It's fucking super rare. That's why my favorite book is how to win friends and influence people. Cause it goes over that. But it's, it's like almost just, just in your conversation. If you're asking them about themselves, man, I'm telling you people would like you more. You ask them about themselves. If you talk about themselves. So almost giving them like the gift of attention and giving them a reason and permission to talk about themselves. And listen, man, are you single guys? You're talking to ladies. If you, if you pull this off, you'll, you'll really stand out. I'm telling you, man, like, don't try to impress this chick. You know what I'm saying? Just ask her about herself. Get her to talk about herself. the whole time, the whole night. She'll, she'll, she'll, she'll put her mouth on. All right. Next thing is like from a business standpoint, let's, let's talk about like straight up business, getting the money. You can't make money, right? Unless you are federal reserve. You can't make money. People give you money. Other people give you money and they only give it to you for a product or service that they believe is valuable enough to give you money. But here's the thing for someone to exchange currency, right? for your product or service. It's, it's, it's really like a sign of trust that they're trusting. They're going to get equal or greater value for the money they exchange for. Right? And here's the thing. They worked for that money most of the time, right? The average person worked, they, they had to work hard for that money. You know what I'm saying? So every time they spend it, it's like, they got to believe that they're going to get some sort of value from that. Right? The easiest way to make them feel good about making the purchase, to trust you enough to give you their hard earned money. it's the, give them value up front. Right? Again, just like the dope dealer of running, gave him some upfront. And now, oh, we already tried these, these rocks. We know what the quality is. I trust that if I give him $5, the two he going to get back, the two rocks he going to give me, are going to be the highest crack rock quality. Cause I've already experienced it. You know what I'm saying? Or when I was, you know, me doing online training, I made my first million as an online trainer. Straight up. but I gave us so much value as the form of YouTube videos and the form of social media content. you know, at the time I was writing blog posts and giving away free guides and things of that nature. I was doing that at such a high level. I mean, I was doing that so much that it would have been kind of absurd to believe that if all this stuff, if I'm giving this stuff away for free, this much game away for free, that I, I, what I pay you for won't be worth it. You get what I'm saying? Because, and that was a strategy. I was like, listen, I gave you so much free game. How could you not believe that, that working directly with me won't benefit you, especially if you already benefited from the free shit. And like, I never worry about giving away too much free shit or giving away too much sauce. Cause you're not going to do it. You're not going to do it. Right. Cause every, to really succeed at a high level, everyone needs a coach. I know that. I know that. Right. Like, you know, you can't read a book about swimming and end up being Michael Phelps. You know, I know that. So like the goal to the next level, you're going to need a fucking coach. There's a reason we don't send motherfuckers to the, to the war. When we train the Navy SEALs, we don't be like, yo, instead of, we don't, we don't give the Navy SEALs a bunch of books. I mean, like read these books, watch these YouTube videos. I see you at the war right now, man. They train with like real Navy SEALs who are like, act as like coaches or mentors. You know, like that's how it works. That's how it works. The success at the highest level is what it works like real success. If you're just trying to dabble in shit. Yeah. YouTube videos is more than enough for YouTube videos. Enough fucking chat. GPT is enough. You know, if you just dabble in, but if you'd like trying to do it for real, you need to coach. Like, and I know that cause that's what I do every time I want to, I'm serious about excelling in any endeavor. I get a coach in that regard. And I just, I just saw, I feel, I say that to say, I'm super confident about giving away as much sauce as possible for free. Right. And as a result, people trust me. They actually trust me more. People think that if I give away too much, y'all hear people say, yo, yo, if I give away too much, man, then they won't want to buy from me. Like, well, fuck it. Other people are giving it away. You ain't, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you're a fitness coach. You ain't invest. You ain't inventing no exercises. Motherfucker. You ain't got some secret. You got some secret exercises. You got some macros that we don't know about. No, nigga. You got all the same shit we got. Somebody's giving away the information. You are here hoarding, right? What you need to do is give away the information, sell the implementation, right? That's what you need to do. And that's, you're going to be way better. Listen, I hope you understand it. The key is give away, give, give, give, give, give to everybody. I mean, motherfucking strangers, even if it's just a smile or like a greeting, uplifting. Sometimes it can be just energy, like straight up. Like, I know I'm going to sound like one of the white chicks, cause like rocks, but it can be just energy. Giving out energy, meaning like, every time, everyone. Okay. But before I get into the energy shit, I'm doing a live training. If you got, those of you guys who want to be online training, trainers, I'm going to show you, I'm going to give you all the game on how to start your online fitness business using AI. It's going to be a free class. I'm going to do doing this. Sunday at 2 p.m. Eastern standard time. You do not want to miss out on that. I'm going to show you how to, how to grow your online fitness business using AI. I'm going to show you how to use AI to grow your following. I'm going to show you how to use AI to get more clients, make more sales. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so they get amazing results. All right. Motorcycle niggas on Biscayne Boulevard. Loud as shit. You might not hear it. What do I do? Anyway, it could just be, the other thing can give them just energy. All right. So my, well, I play this game when I'm walking around. It's like, can I change other people's mood? Right. Can I change other people's mood? And another word for mood is state, like state, state of being, you know, mental state. Can I change their mood or change their state? And I want to elevate it. I want to elevate their mood. And I call myself the head. It's a game. I call it head of state. Meaning I'm going around. Dictating what everybody's state is going to be. Everybody's state is going to, it's going to be raised. And it's a game I play. It's only in my head, but it starts when I get in the elevator. You know what I'm saying? And it's like, all right, I got to break. Hey, what's going on guys? How you doing? Maybe even compliment. Hey man, I like that watch or whatever. You know what I'm saying? Right. Or what kind of dog is that? You know, whatever it is. Can I, can I raise, can I see a visible state change from this person? Can they, can I leave them a little happier than I found them? It's like a weird game I play. And it's, I'm like that with people, almost people, people all walk by. I'm like, yo, what I mean? Yo, janitors. Yo, what's good, man? The door people, you know what I'm saying? And it's almost like a wave of happiness that follows me around the city of Miami. It's difficult to explain. I do this shit in the gym. I do this shit when I go out. Right. As a result, people want to fuck with me. Pause. Like, they want to be around that. Cause that's, that's, that's also a gift. Cause like most people ain't out here deliberately making other people happy. You know? And as a result, people want to be around me more. And it makes it, it's easier to move around. You know? And I end up with friends everywhere I go. Even, even the gym in my building, or if I go to the gym, one of these gyms in Miami, yo, head of state, everybody I've talked to, man, I want to see a visible state change, you know? And, and even in my own house, like my girlfriend, man, can I get, can I do a, can I have a visit? Can I cause a visible state change in her? My, my team, everybody, you know, play, play that game, leave, play the game, head of state. And sometimes it's just a smile. Can raise somebody's mood. Or, a greeting. Or compliments can always work. Compliments always work. You know? Try that on, man. And watch how people treat you differently. Right? Again, if you want people to treat you well, treat them well first. Anything you want, man. Everything you want. Just give first. Give, give, give, give, give, give, give, give, give. The more giving you are, the more of the shit you want, you'll get. Right? Somebody who's having bad, I promise you, the motherfuckers, all you motherfuckers who are having bad luck in life, aren't out here giving first. I promise you. Nobody who's always giving, always generous, always helping other people, is walking around having bad luck all the time. It doesn't work like that. This is the easiest way to change your luck. All right? I hope this makes sense. It sounds like a ramble. I'm going to throw the transcript and claw it and see if it comes up with something better than what I just said. But, I think I did this shit.