 narsiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiyaiya about selling courses. We're talking about actually training people online. And I'm not going to get into how to train these people in this video. If you want to learn how to do that, there's a free ebook in the description that will break this down. But I am going to give you all the sauce on how to actually start getting it popping online. So you can start getting some clients, getting some leads. Now, when you're selling online training, you're not doing it from a link in your bio. You're not, you're selling higher ticket online training. So in order to do that, we need to get on a sales call with people. This is what I did when I first started. This is what I teach my students to do. We get on sales calls and I teach them how to sell and I teach them all the thing. And then they close the clients. High ticket online training. So the first thing we need to do post content that gets engagement. The advantage you guys have now, if you were starting today versus when I started online training is one Instagram that exists when I started, but I was doing Facebook and YouTube right now. We don't have to have a big following to go viral. In fact, followers count almost doesn't matter anymore. You can have a small following or these sites following and still get millions of views with the right kind of video. When I'm posting content, the two types of content I would focus on is reels and carousels. Carousel posts, I'm making a comeback on Instagram. I can start getting way more engagement. So the first thing I would do is I start with reels because it's the most important thing. I'd go to Instagram. First thing I would do is search up my niche, Hitmen's Fat Loss. I'm looking for outliers. So outliers are videos that have a good amount of views. We want to look for one at least a million. We're looking for that video to have five to 10 times as many views as followers of the person who posted it. These are outliers. For example, here's one of my students. I typed in Men's Fat Loss. Immediately I see one of my students, Corey Armstrong. This video got 2.4 million views. Oh, one more thing. I highly suggest you get this Chrome extension. It's called TikTok Instagram Sorter. You have to pay a little bit, but it's cool because now you can go on desktop and look how much information I have about each video. I can see the views. I can see the comments. I can see when it was posted, the time it was posted. So this is Corey Armstrong and she got 2 million views, but Corey only has 300,000 followers. This is for sure outlier. Corey's one of my students who I teach to grow online fitness business. Corey made $400,000 last year just as an online trainer. He wasn't selling t-shirts or he wasn't promoting somebody's supplement company, just online training $400,000. If you want to learn more about how he did it, hit the link in the description. There's a free ebook that'll show you exactly how. This video is a good candidate for outlier, right? 2 million views, 300,000 followers. It's fantastic. What we want to do is find these outliers and make our own version of them. Now we're not going to copy these people. We're not going to say this shit word for word, bar for bar. Of course not. That's crazy. That's how you get called out and people start making fun of you. I'm going to make fun of you. I'm going to laugh. What we want to do is figure out how this video may work for him and then figure out a way to make our own version of it. Here's how I want to think about it. There's a lot of songs that are in the same key, maybe even the same chord progression, but then those songs had different rhythms, different tempos and different lyrics. We're going to take the base of this, which is the key it's in and the chord progression. We're going to put our own lyrics and change the tempo up a little bit. The cool thing about this, this plugin is I can actually download the video. I hit this button right here and I can just download this video. I stole that shit. Now we're going to start using some AI. We're going to go to Gemini. All right, so I got the video in my downloads, right? I'm going to put it up here. You can only do this with Gemini, even the free version. You can do it. You can dump the whole fucking video in there. Then I go, yo, transcribe this video and tell me why it went viral. Gemini is the only one that can actually take a raw video and analyze it. Claw can't do this. ChatGippity can't do this. Nasty ass Gronk can't do it either. Boom. We got the transcription and it's going to tell us why it went viral. Strong hugs and bluesy. Here's where it gets, here's where we get told. I help men over 30 get ripped because it's exercise. I don't have to say with keto, but that's probably what I would say, but I don't have to say that here. I can help get ripped. Write a version of this script for me and my voice. If you've been using Gemini for a while, like me as my favorite LM, I could have just wrote, yo, write a version of this script for me and my voice. Boom. Now I got a different script with some different moves. All right, cool. Now I can make my version of this video and I would follow the same type of format. What I would do is I would go in a gymnasium, right? This would look like a hotel gym or apartment gym and I would make the same kind of video and I would also follow the reasons why it went viral. I would go to look at why it went viral and let's try to do some of the same things, right? But I'm not just copying off. I'm being influenced by him. I'm using his shit as a template. This is a really important for you guys who are just starting out making content. You should do this a lot because you don't know how to make content yet. You're, you're brand new. Why would you be good at making that shit off the rip? Those of you who play instruments, you know, when I first started learning to play guitar, I didn't start writing songs day one. Nah, man, I started learning songs that were already published and were hit records. And then once I learned those songs, I was able to start creating my own songs. I learned how the music works, learned the music theory. Now I can write my own songs if I want to on a guitar. Same kind of thing, man. You need to learn how videos work, right? Cause you don't know what makes a good video. I call this niche hacking. I'm sure you're one of my other students. You already seen Corey, but this is Jen, right? Jen is one of my students. She had never been a trainer before. She was actually, at the time she was a nurse or a pharmacist or some shit like that. I don't know. She had a bunch of kids too, right? She got two young kids and her husband. She had never did this before, but she didn't really know how to make content. She didn't know what she was doing, right? She joined my program, high ticket trainer. And I taught her niche hacking and a bunch of other strategies on how to make, create content and build your business. And yo, Jen started going viral. She had a few thousand followers when she started in just over a year. She's got 145,000 followers, but more important than that last year, she made over $500,000 as an online trainer. Never did it before while working a full-time job and had two kids. She quit that job now, as you might as expected, but check this out. With that plugin I showed you, I can put her shit in order. I can actually go to put it in order by views. And if I just scroll down for a second, these are videos with 5 million views, 2 million views, 1.7 million views, 1.5 million views, like tons of it. And, but again, she's got only got 146,000 followers. That's the first type of content you're going to make videos based off outliers. Next type of content you can make is carousels. Carousels do really well. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to make carousels. For this, we're going to use claw. First thing you want to do is find some examples of carousels that you like. Screenshot them, download them, do whatever you got to do. We're going to upload those into claw. Let's say, I like this, these carousels, this one, you can see it up here. What you're going to do is you're going to use this prompt right here. Extract the design colors and fonts of these images. Ignore the written context and send me a description in JSON format. Claw doesn't have a built-in image generator. Everybody's talking about clause, the best clause, the clause. It's really good for a lot of things, but it doesn't have a built-in image generator, but it can read code. So we have to transform this, these images into code and we're going to do it with JSON. So you're going to get this JSON code. Then what you're going to do is you're going to go to projects, right? You can start a new project. I already did this. You're going to go to instructions and add instructions. I already did it. So I'm going to show you. You can name it, whatever you want. You're going to type this prompt in here. You are an Instagram carousel design system. When the user asks you to create a carousel, you would generate a fully contained swipable HTML carousel where every slide is designed to be exported individual image for Instagram posting. Boom. You're going to post that in there. And then underneath that, you're going to put that JSON that we gave you before. All right. And you're going to save that. Then here's what you're going to do. How many carousels? You take your own video. So this is a video of mine. It got a lot of views. This is one of my Instagram videos. I just downloaded it. Well, I just uploaded the file and said, transcribe it again. Only Gemini can do this. And then it transcribed it. Boom. I copy this, take it to Claude now. And I said, yo, transform this into a carousel. And then it's the same outline from the video. Here's what it came up with. I didn't like it at first. I said, yo, change the colors. Oh, then it made it green. I'm like, God damn it. Now change it to red. Ah, then it started coming up with it. This is the carousel. It doesn't look cool yet, but just know it took my script and turned it into an Instagram carousel. Boom. Then I can download all of these. Now what do you do? Then you go to Google AI studio. You can do this in Gemini, but Gemini leaves a watermark. So fuck that. If you've got an iPhone, hit edit, magic erase, I'll roll over that shit. It takes a second. But now here's what we're going to do. Now I got each one of these, one of these carousels. I add an image of me. I put them both in the conversation in Google AI studio. We're using Nano Banana 2. And then I say, yo, add the man from image two to image one, make it blend seamlessly. Make sure none of the words are covered up. This is important. I found this out the hard way. This is the important part of the prompt. Now look, boom. Now that looks like something to post. Did the same thing with the next one. This is slot number two. Another image of me. Put it in there. Did the same thing. Now that looks like an image worth posting. Am I right? We got this one. And this other image of me. Look at what we got. I got these two images of me. Came through with this. This one, this one looked really good. I thought. Now we got the carousels to post too. So now we can post videos and carousels. And the thing about the carousels, especially if you use AI for this, it's so much faster than scripting, editing, and filming the videos. So now you can pump out more content. From here, this is what all my top students are doing. Let's go back to Corey. One thing I teach them to do is to give away something in your videos. Instead of just saying, Hey man, DM me if you want me to train you. You can do that sometimes and it's going to work, but you don't want all your posts to be like, yo, trying to get something from them. Then you come off salesy. If you don't want to come off salesy, you need to do this. He wrote a lot in the caption the way we tell him. And he said, yo man, I laid out the blueprint from a free alcohol guide. I guess that's what he's doing in this video. Comment sip below and I send it right to you. What happens is sip is he going to get a free guide. We call that the profit PDF. You got to come up with these guides and all right. So this is step two, getting the leads. Before we get into this, how many times did you post a day? If I was you, I would do two videos a day and two carousels a day, man. At least if you can do more, do more. I have some students who are posting five, six times a day reels and it's working. There's no such thing as posting too much. Now the CEO of Instagram came out and said, the more you post, the faster you will grow. Your feed is not linear and all of your posts should have something free to give a free guide to give away. And the free guide is going to do two things. One is going to be easy way to start conversations with people. Once you give them the free guide in Instagram, then you start conversation. Hey, I see you download the free guide. What are your fitness goals right now? How long have you been working? You start a conversation with that. I don't have time to go into what the DM script would be. If you want to learn more about that, hit the link in my description, download the free ebook. You start a free guide with those and a certain number of those people, when you had to go through the DM script with them, they don't want to get on sales calls with you. And then on sales calls, you close them in the online training. But this is how you can sell without being salesy. You give something away and you start a conversation with them. And in the thing you're giving away, there'll be opportunities for them to give you free to make sales with them as well. So how do you make these free guides? What I like to do is I like to take my videos, right? I'll take one of my YouTube videos and have it transcribed. Let's go to YouTube and I'm going to go, um, can I get the copy this URL? I'm using my videos, which you could do if you don't know what to make your shit about, you can come up with a topic and then have until Chad GPT, Gemini or Claude to interview you on the topic. Say, interview me on this topic. Ask me each question one at a time. Once you have enough information, I want you to turn it into a free ebook that I can give away. That's how you do it. Or I like to tell LLMs to do blog posts. It does a lot of weird shit when you tell the ebooks or something like it formats it weird. If you just say blog posts, that's good enough. Well, now my videos, I'm going to go just post this into Gemini. Gemini is the only LLM that can really do this. The other ones aren't good at checking out YouTube videos, but because Gemini is owned by Google and YouTube is owned by Google, they have tight integration. Write me a blog post based on this video. It's my video. So I know it was dope. So I don't have to worry about what it looks like. That's not bad right there. Let's take it. Let me get this. All right. Check out what I'm about to do. This is some next level shit I'm about to do. For whatever reason, what I'm about to do now works best with ChatGBT. I don't know why. Take the following blog post and turn it into a Canva prompt to create a PDF. Make sure the cover has an image of me working out. ChatGBT knows what I look like. Let's say it doesn't know what I'm about that. An image of a light skinned black man working out. Make that the only image. I like to have one image in it. You'll see what's about to happen, right? Make sure the last page says DM me the word ripped. If you want me to help you get in the best of your life. All right, cool. Put the blog post here. Boom. Now I'm gonna get the Canva prompt. I don't know why it works like this, but you'll see. Here's the prompt. And you can come up with many of these, right? Like as many of these you want. Then you go to notebook LM, copy text, put the prompt in here. I don't know why you got to say Canva prompt. There might be a better way to do it, but this shit works, right? All right, you put it in there. Then you say slide deck. You know, you can pick either one of these. I'm gonna pick presenter slides. I'm gonna go ahead and generate. That's gonna take a minute to generate. So this is one that I had already made. I did the same kind of prompt. So as you can see the pasted text, it was the same kind of Canva prompt. It came up with this. All right. Boom. Now what I did was I took some screenshots, threw it in Google AI Studio. I said, yo, replace this guy with me. And then I would take a screenshot of each one of these pictures. And I said, yo, replace this guy with me. And I put a picture of me. I did it with each one of these pictures, right? So then I went into Canva and I just replaced those images. These was white men, but now it's me. You see, you can see that was the white man. I just placed this on top. So I made the images in Google AI Studio. And this is me doing this exercise. And I replaced the white man with me. Same shit with all of these. Replace the white man with me. And then I got this. I'm going to DM me to wear a six pack to get started. And boom, there it is. That's how I did it. And now I download this, upload it to Google Drive. Then I use another tool called ManyChat. ManyChat will automatically DM people when they comment a word. You can set that up. So boom, I can comment a word, rip or six pack or something, right? They get this sent to them automatically, but I follow up manually. ManyChat opens the DM. Then I follow up manually with a real conversation with them, get them on a sales call and close them. That's how you do that. I don't have time to go into the rest of it, how to do it. But if you want to learn more about this and how you can start using AI to grow your following and start making some money like my students and hit the link in the description, download the free ebook that'll show you how to grow your online fitness business and good luck. Let's go. I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I