You fat and skinny simultaneously. That's why you're watching this video. I'm not clicking on videos on should I bulk or cut. I know what's up. And I'mma show you what's up. Because the reason I know you fat and skinny is because people always want to know should you bulk or cut. And people who are asking that are typically skinny fat. They ain't got enough muscle to look like a real man, but they not lean enough to not look like a You probably got a real Bart Simpson swag. Here's how you know if you should bulk or cut, and I'm going to show you how to do both in this video. Here's how you know if you should bulk or cut. You're asking that question, you should cut. A lot of guys think they need to bulk, but they would look way better if they just cut. You look way better leaner than you do fatter. And if you put some fat on, let's say you you already a little too fat, then you put some muscle on underneath the fat. It won't look at as as impressive. But if you cut first, you will look amazing. Let me give you some examples. Zack Efron in Baywatch. This mother is about 510. Little fella. In the Baywatch, he was 165. This This how he looked. 165. Little little fella, right? But he was super ripped. He got a Tropic Thunder tan, but yo, he looks super ripped. But yo, man, he was [\h__\h] small as hell. 50 lbs heavier than my girlfriend. Let's look at Michael B. Jordan in Creed. Michael B. Jordan is 6' tall and in Creed he was 175. Look at this [\h__\h] man. He look like he's in great shape, man. But he he's and he is, right? But he was he was small, man. Little fella. But you look way better when you cut. I'm give you another example. Daniel Craig in Casino Royale. One of my favorite movies. But yeah, this Daniel Craig in Casino Royale. Dude was about 510 and he was 175 in Casino in Casino Royale. Chris Hemsworth in the first store. He's 6'3 and he was 183 in the first store. Man, he wasn't like huge, right? You need to get lean, guys. Guys, you need to get lean. Henry Caval, he's about 6'1 and then he was in a movie years ago called Immortals and he was 170. You don't need to get as big as you think you do. You need to cut first. And if you cut first and then put on five pounds, it's going to look way more impressive than if you fat and then put on five pounds. So, the thing is, if you're skinny fat, you cut first. And there's another good reason to cut first. One, you can cut faster than you can bulk. Because fat loss biologically is a way easier process than muscle growth, right? Muscle growth, the muscle fibers got to tear down and then grow back. The muscle cells have to grow and divide and multiply. Fat cells only have to shrink. So you can lose fat way faster than you can put on muscle. You need to cut first because that way you can get a quick win. You can immediately start looking better. Now you're not skinny fat. You picked a struggle. You went from skinny fat to actually ripped. Then you can put on some muscle. And we'll go into it as well. I feel like I made a compelling argument about cutting first. How do you do it? I suggest you take your body weight in pounds. Multiply that by 10. This is an aggressive cut. Now this is only if you're like skinny fat. If you're fat fat, obese, you shouldn't be watching this video. You just need to cut. I got other videos for your fat ass. Take your body weight in pounds. Multiply that by 10. That's how many calories you need to get each day. Right? And don't get one calorie over that. Now, you may be thinking, "Oh man, I got to track calories. I'm a [\h__\h] That's too hard for me." Tracking your calories is not that difficult. It's really You're just putting numbers in the phone. If you've done high school algebra, that's more difficult than tracking your calories cuz you ain't even got to add [\h__\h] up. You're just pumping numbers in the phone and then it's over. If you insist on being a [\h__\h] I'm going to show you a way where you can cut without counting calories. Those of you who are tough enough to count your calories, body weight in pounds times 10. Make sure you get at least one gram of protein per pound of body weight. This will help you retain the little muscle you you have while you cutting. Now, I know you said, "Man, but Jeff Nippert or someone else told me I only need 7.8 g of protein per pound of body weight." You're right. And I ain't going to argue science with Jeff Nippert. That's all he do. But in the studies that he referenced, you got to remember that those studies were done in like perfect conditions. We don't live in perfect conditions. In fact, the FDA allows food labels to be off by 20% in either direction. In order to mitigate the possibility of us accidentally getting not enough protein, because food labels are allowed to be off, we're just going to overshoot it a little bit. 1 g that makes up for the 20%. And if you get too much protein, it's fine. What you do with the other macronutrients, carbohydrates and fats, whatever you want. Me, I like highfat, low carbs. Say I look younger since I've been on keto. Skin cleared up. Flawless. By show that keto actually boosts your immune system. When they put animals on keto, they live longer, healthier lives. A lot of lot of cancer researchers are putting people on keto because cancer cells can't live without glucose and they can't run off ketones. But if you love carbohydrates, like it maybe say you're Asian or Latino and you [\h__\h] love rice, then go for it, man. It doesn't matter. As long as your protein and your calories are in check, you're going to be all right. Now, what if you a real [\h__\h] and you don't want to track your calories? I got something for your [\h__\h] ass, too. This is what you're going to do. Only going to eat meat, and green leafy vegetables. That's it. Meat, eggs, and green leafy vegetables. That means you you eating [\h__\h] like steak. You can eat you some chicken. You can eat you some some lamb. You can eat a goat. As long as it's meat, dairy, I'll allow dairy and eggs, right? That's only that's your meat section, right? And then with vegetables, it's got to be green leafy vegetables. So, we talking about spinach, we talking about kale, we talking about lettuce, we talking about collared greens, which is my preferred green leafy vegetable. Any kind of greens you want. You can throw in some stuff like asparagus and broccoli. That's cool, too. What you're not going to eat is fruit. You don't eat that much fruit anyway. I'm the only person I know who eats fruit every day. Like, every day, cuz I eat a bowl of berries at breakfast. You can eat berries on keto. That's like one of the only fruits you can eat. You can't cuz you're not tracking calories, right? You're not going to eat no fruit. And it's okay because you're going to get enough nutrients from the green leafy vegetables. You're going to need enough fiber. You don't need that extra fruc. You got to pick a struggle, man. You don't want to [\h__\h] track calories. And [\h__\h] it. Now, one of you [\h__\h] is thinking, "Man, but yo, what about bananas? How about a kiwi?" No, [\h__\h] You can't have no fruit. And that's it. And the reason that works is because that stuff is not very calorie dense, right? If you eat starchy carbohydrates and fruit, those tend to be a lot more calorie dense. If you abstain from those for a brief period of time, what's going to happen is you're going to be inadvertently be in a caloric deficit, meaning you'll be burning more calories than you consume. But don't come to me saying this doesn't work and your ass was eating honeydew and mangoes every day thinking you following the diet. That ain't for you, fat boy. What about cheat days? No, [\h__\h] You don't get a cheat day. You skinny fat. You got to earn a cheat day. Once you skinny, that's what you going to do. You know, I've been a trainer for a long time. And a lot of time I would get some [\h__\h] ass [\h__\h] who like didn't want to track their calories. Oh, I'm too busy. It's too hard. It's like whatever, dork. Here, just do this instead. And all of them weight just started to fall off. And what's going to happen is your skin will clear up. Any skin issues you have cuz all those foods are anti-inflammatory, right? You're not going to get any inflammation from that [\h__\h] But you can eat as much vegetables as you want, as much meat as you want, and you going to be in great shape. That's the diet. Now, what about the exercise? Here's what I recommend. I recommend you get yourself some sort of fitness tracker. You can get yourself Apple Watch, a Whoop, or Aura Ring. I'd advise against a Samsung watch. Not because it's not good technology, but it's probably one of the dorkiest things you could put on your body. I've never met a woman who's had sexual intercourse with a man wearing a Samsung watch. Once you have your fitness tracker that's not a Samsung watch, you want to set a goal for calories you burn each day. maintenance calories is typically about your body weight times 15. give or take a little. You want to burn significantly more than that. Shoot for one or 2,000 calories above that, right? So, that means you're going to have to start exercising more. You're going to do doing more cardio. You're going to be lifting weights. Obviously, you can do full body workout three to four times a week. Pick one or two exercises per body part. When you're doing that workout, start with the biggest muscles first. Glutes are the biggest muscle in the body, right? So, start with some squats or something like that. So, you're working your legs and you do chest and back. You can super set chest and back to save time. Bench press and pull-up, something like that. Then you want to move on to the deltoid overhead press. You're doing handstand push-ups as you me and then you can do some for arms, right? You can super set arms, bicep and triceps in order to save time. Pick one or two exercises per body part. Three to four times a week. If you do it four times a week, you can get probably get away with one exercise per body part. And and as far as cardio is concerned, if I was you, I would do some sort of cardiovascular activity. The days you don't work out, do like an hour of steady state cardio. Steady state cardio. So this is walking. You know, you can walk on the incline or you can walk outside or something, but walk on the incline. That's really good. Uh, you can do the elliptical or you can even get on the escalator machine. We call it the escalator machine now cuz I like that name. I know you guys are used to call it the stair master. I want to start spreading that. The escalator machine, a better name, or at least it makes me smile when I say it. Sometimes it's the little things. The days you do lift weights, do it for like 20 30 minutes, right? That still might not burn the extra 1 to 2,000 calories a day within itself. So, what you want to do is find ways throughout the day to burn more calories. When you get cardio like that, it's called NEAT or non exercise activity thermogenesis. Meaning, you're burning calories throughout the day as opposed to just a dedicated exercise session. This is stuff like instead of driving somewhere, if it's walking distance, you walk. Instead of taking the elevator, you take the stairs. Instead of just watching Love Island with your girlfriend, y'all go for a walk or something. Instead of driving around trying to find a parking spot that's closest to the entrance, park far from the entrance. is just way just find ways throughout the day to get more cardio. If you got some kids, kids is a great way to get cardio because kids like to have fun and jump around and [\h__\h] but you don't want to be one of the fat dads. Just watch them [\h__\h] play. You start playing with them. Start get getting it in, run around with them, and just know you burning calories. If I'm wearing my Apple Watch with my son, I hit the exercise [\h__\h] turn it on, and I'm I'm I'm playing the internal game. How many calories can I burn at this trampoline park? I get on the dodgeball court with them, I start [\h__\h] them kids up, man. Boom. You make fun out out of it. If you're with your girlfriend and you you're having intercourse with her, presumably you don't have a Samsung watch, which means you probably got a you might have a girlfriend, at least somebody who's willing to have sex with you. Well, when you do it, don't let them get on top, man. Start doing hit cardio on that [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? Some fast strokes. Then slow down, get your breath. Hit cardio. You do a few rounds of that, everybody's happy. Do whatever you got to do to burn extra 1 to 2,000 calories a day. Plus the diet, boom, you'll be shredded in no time. If you're going to be doing all this exercise and if you're cutting the starchy carbohydrates, you want to get more water. I drink two gallons of water a day when I'm cutting. But you should drink at least one and you'll just feel better. Your brain will work better. Everything will feel better. At least one gallon of water a day. Supplements for cutting, there's a few of them. First and foremost, get yourself some caffeine. I love caffeine. Caffeine doesn't burn fat, but it helps you burn fat multiple ways. For one, it's a potent appetite suppressant, meaning you won't be as hungry. Cuz remember, you have to burn more calories than you consume to burn fat. So, if your appetite is suppressed, you won't be compelled to consume more. Up your caffeine dosage. And oh, caffeine also gives you more energy, right? So, now you can burn more calories, right? I take a pre-workout before I hit the trampoline park. That's how kids end up crying at the dodgeball [\h__\h] when I'm when they on when they on opposite sides of me cuz I done took 400 millig of caffeine. I'm out there. Whoa, whoa, let's go. You know, it's your own tolerance. I take 1,000 milligs of caffeine a day. Andrew Huberman says he takes 800 milligs of caffeine per day. We're probably a lot bigger than you. I'm like over 200 lb, 6'2. You probably don't need as much caffeine and you ain't been abusing it like I have since uh I was a kid. If you want to, if I would take 2 to three millig of caffeine 2 to three times a day. And don't worry, it won't [\h__\h] kill you. The lethal dose of caffeine is 10,000 millig. When I when I say that, sometimes people are like, "Oh man, but if you taking 10% of the lethal dose, that can't be good." No, that's not how toxicology work. If you drink a gallon of water a day, that's fine. That's like normally prescribed for a fitness enthusiast. That's more than 10% of the lethal dose of water. You can die from drinking too much water, right? That's just not how to toxicology works. If you get a little bit of something, it could be good for you, but if you get like way too much and it's bad for you, like vitamin C, like vitamin C is good for you in small in the appropriate dosage, but it's toxic at higher dosage. You also going to need to up your electrolytes, especially if you're on the the the meat and vegetable diet. So, if you get your electrolytes up, you'll you'll feel great. The thing is when you cut carbs, you start losing a ton of water weight fast, which actually helps you look better, right? This is why physique competitors and pro bodybuilders, they always dehydrate themselves before show cuz you actually look better, right? So, it's not negligible. But with that water weight, it's going to flush out your electrolytes, too, and you got to replace them, right? So, you can drink some LMT few times a day. You like me, you putting hot sauce on everything that has a lot of sodium, you can drink sugar-free Gatorade, Gatorade Zero, something like that. Or you can just, if you're drinking a big thing of water, you can actually you can actually uh just add salt to it. But you got to up your electrolytes, potassium, sodium, and magnesium. If you're on that meat and vegetable diet, don't worry about too much salt. The more the better for you. And every time you feel bad or weak, get yourself some salt sometimes. But yeah, I keep like element on me for that reason right now. Now, let's take it up a notch. Another thing you can get is ketone esters cuz one that I prefer is called ketone A. Now, it's different than the ketones that you buy at like Vitamin Shop or some or GNC or some [\h__\h] The esters are way more powerful, but you get like so much more energy and so much mental clarity. The reason that works is when people on the ketogenic diet, they're not getting glucose, right? Cuz your body typically runs off glucose. However, in the absence of carbohydrates, your liver will make these things called ketones. And these ketones are be the new fuel that your body runs off of as opposed to glucose. But there's a there's an adaptation phase, right? So sometimes when people go on keto, it's like it takes them two, three weeks, sometimes four weeks for them to start to get into ketosis, then they start feeling better. But sometimes they feel like [\h__\h] that initial adaptation phase. If you take ketone esters during that phase or even the ketone salts during that phase, you you get these exogenous ketones and you start to feel better and have energy. And even if you eat carbs, you can take ketones and get more energy. It just be another energy source for you. Those help a lot. All right, let's take it up another notch. There's this [\h__\h] called Bronade. Bronade is a asthma medication. You got to go behind the pharmacy and ask for it. Say, "Yo, let me get that bronchade." She gonna ask for your ID to make sure you ain't breaking bad. I don't know if they make meth out of it or something, but if they did make meth out of it, that would make a lot of sense because when you take Bronade, you going to get tons of energy. The reason you going to get tons of energy cuz the main ingredient in that Bronade is something called ephedra. Ephedra used to be in every fat burning supplement when I was a kid in the '9s. Back during the Clinton administration, if you went and bought any fat burner, it had ephedra in it. A fedra is a potent fat burner for three reasons. It will dramatically suppress your appetite. You might not eat enough if you take in a fedra. It's going to give you tons of energy, like a a ridiculous amount of energy, maybe too much. Another thing that helps, it actually helps you burn fat because fat loss is a two-part process. There's lipolysis and there's oxidation. Lolysis is when the fat cells are broken down into fatty acids. And oxidation is when those is when your body uses those fatty acids for energy. Ephedra has been proven to accelerate the rate of lipolysis that occurs when you're in a deficit, right? So, it accelerates lipolysis, which is the first part of fat loss. It's helping you burn fat in three ways, plus giving you a tons of energy, and it feels great. You want to take that two or three times a day with the caffeine. It's a double whammy, man. If you do that with the ketone ers, then you got what I call the keto illegal stack. Reason it's illegal is because it's not supposed to be put in dietary supplements. It's not supposed to be put in fat loss supplements. We making our own fat loss supplement. The keto illegal stack. [\h__\h] been getting ripped off that [\h__\h] for decades. I'm on that [\h__\h] right now. Yeah. Right before I started filming this [\h__\h] I took a pre-workout, some ketone esters, and some Bronade. That's why you love this video so much. Pro tip, take the keto illegal stack before sexual intercourse because one, you're going to burn more fat when you in that vagina. She going to be sore, but you going to be the star of her group chat tomorrow. Two to three times a day. Two to three 100 milligrams of caffeine. You can get that in pre-workout form. One Bron A and a shot or two of ketone esters. Do that until you're ripped. Keep doing that till you're looking like Creed 3 or you're looking like Zack Efron Baywatch. And then after that, once you get lean and you bulk, it's going to look way more impressive. And something special happens when you bulk after a cut. It's almost like your body is sucking up all them nutrients. And it's it feels like you can put on mass faster after a cut. Like immediately after a cut. Like some of these [\h__\h] they want to reverse diet. I'm always bulking or I'm cutting. No [\h__\h] reverse dieting. Ain't no maintenance. So bulking after a cut like this, man, is going to be amazing. And you're going to bulk until you get until your abs start to fade. Then you go right back onto this cut. And if you want to learn how to bulk, I got another video all about it about how to bulk and put on as much muscle as fast as possible. Go watch that video right now.