So the key to this is to not don't it's like you don't want to pull in from here. You want to just pull in from this joint when you're working biceps. If you work from this joint, it's going to be back. But if you do it from this joint, this is where the movements come from. This joint is say relatively stationary. So if you come from this joint, it's bicep. If you come from here, it's going to be mostly back. So check me out. So bam. I'm only moving the joint of my elbow. If I wanted to work back, I would I would move my shoulder. Like this is the difference. This is back. This is bicep. You feel me? Good. Yeah. So, and the the I can make it harder by putting my feet further down or lighter by putting my feet further up. So, I'm start with the hardest cuz I'm going to do a drop set. So, I'm start with the hardest. And then I'm going to do it a little bit easier for the next one. I went to failure right there. Now I'm making it easier. Going to failure again. Then I'm going to make it real easy. Now my back is almost parallel to the ground. Kind of stand on my toes a little bit and just doing it again. This is really light, but it's hard because the way I started, cuz I did so many reps before this. And the benefit of doing that, doing the drop sets, is you get high reps, but you also get you get heavy when you start. So, you're lifting heavy, but you also get the high reps. Uh, so you get the benefit of like lifting heavy and the benefit of high reps at once. And you really take the muscle to failure. Same [\h__\h] Now I'm super set that like right when that set's over. I go into triceps. Kind of like when we did chest before, like if I was doing chest same, it's the same principle. If I move from here, it's going to work. If I move from my shoulder, it's going to be mostly uh chest. If I move from my elbow from this joint, it's going to be mostly triceps. So this kind of like skull crushers. If you were like laying on your back and you if you like laying on your back and [\h__\h] and you had the easy curl bar above your head, that's skull crushers. Let me show you. Like that's triceps. This is chest. You see? So we're doing triceps right now. So again, we're going to start with the hardest. It's like this. Then I go to failure. That now make it easier by putting my feet up a little further. Damn. Over there. Did I make it the easiest? Putting my feet up a little further. So, so what we did was drop sets made the progressions easier. We each time going to fail each time and we do a super set cuz I I did biceps and triceps. I did triceps right after biceps. So, it's like drops and a super set. So, it's pretty intense for arm arm workout if you're using the [\h__\h] straps. Heat.