Are you not entertained? Is this not why you are here? Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. All right. So, listen. A lot of times I give advice on fitness advice, right? I consider myself I I honestly consider myself an expert in the fitness field. I've been a a trainer for over 10 years. I've trained, you know, my credentials speak for the self. I trained professional athletes. I've been a professional fitness model. I've trained uh professional models. I've I've got I I got the credentials, you know. So, like I'll give advice. I I'll tell people I I'll like I'll talk to somebody and I or I'll make a video about something. I'll be like, "Listen, this is what you need." They they'll tell me what their goal is. They say, "Hey, man. I want to put on this amount of muscle or I want to lose this amount of fat." And I'll be like, "Yo, it's no problem, man. Let me show you um let me give you a protocol. This is what you can do." And they'll be like, "Yo, man, that's a lot of work, man. I don't really want to do that." You know what I'm saying? Or like, "Uh, man, that's too much work. I don't want to." Or like, "I don't like but I don't like them food, man. Oh, can I eat? But can I I can I can still eat cheeseburgers and candies, right? And I'm like, listen, man. Do you want this [\h__\h] or not? Like, why? Don't get mad at me, bro. I didn't make these [\h__\h] rules. I didn't design the human body. I didn't design the human body to store fat when it consumes more calories than it burns. Like, I didn't. That's not me, man. That your god did that. You know, whoever you believe in did that. I'm not responsible for that. If you want it bad enough, you got to do it. If you want it bad enough, then do it. If you don't want it bad enough, that's cool, man. Just make peace with it. Just make peace with that. And it's like that not just in fitness, but in life, man. Like, if you want it bad enough, then [\h__\h] go for it. Go all out 100%. Make that [\h__\h] happen. Find out what's required and then do what's required. If you don't want it bad enough, then just make peace with that, man. Don't complain about it being hard. Just do something else, man. Like let let me give you example. I've had a million jobs like since I graduated from college. A million jobs. And at one point I thought that I wanted to be a real estate agent. So when I went in uh took a real estate test, passed the test. When I was in line to take the test, for whatever reason, I wore a suit. Man, sometimes when I feel when I want when I got something crazy to do or something I want to feel extra confident, I just wear a suit. So I I was just in line to take a test wearing a suit for no reason, right? Just I just do that [\h__\h] And there was some guys in the line, some brokers, man, some slick Manhattan real estate brokers, man. I guess they were scouting for for this uh firm they just started, you know, this brokerage that just was started. And they saw me and then they started talking to me. Yo, man, you only got a suit, man. Listen, you know, right when you if you pass the test, you got a job. And they I mean, they were talking to me a little bit. You know, I used the how to win friends influence people charm on them and they were like, "Oh, man. Yo, you got a job. I can tell you got what it takes. Soon as you pass the test, you got a job, man. Here's my card. come through. So, I pass the test. Uh then then the next day I go I go to them. I'm like, "All right, let's do this, man. You know, uh let's let's make this happen." And then I'm I'm talking to these guys, right? And he they they just started this firm and the guy's explaining to me like, "Listen, you know, I used to be with this other big company. Now I started my own brokerage. All right? I started my own brokerage firm and this this let me tell you how it goes down." All right? He went straight boiler room on me. He was on some boil the room [\h__\h] and he was like, "Listen, I promise you, you work with us. I'm going to make you rich. You're going to get rich, but this is what it's going to take. You got to tell your girlfriend, your friends, and your family that they're going to be able to contact you for the next 6 months to a year. All right? You're going to be working all the time. There is no, it's not going to be 9 to5. It's going to be all the time. You're going to be on calls all the time. No bar. I haven't been to a barbecue or a wedding or a birthday party in over a year. All I do is grind. All I do is make money. We're going to get rich doing this. All right. But you got to put all you got. All you're going to do is work, go home, sleep four to six hours, then get up and work again. That's going to be your life for the next 6 months to a year. But I promise you once you do that, you'll get rich. And I was like, listen, I want to get rich, but I don't want it that bad. I don't want it that bad for real. I just didn't want it that bad. I didn't want to sacrifice. I didn't want to to make that kind of commitment to to getting rich. I just didn't want it that bad. So, I was like, "Yeah, man. I I don't think this is for me, man." You know? I I'll just be honest with him. I didn't [\h__\h] him. I was like, "I don't want it that bad." And I just kind of like walked away. So like if and and now now like that if you if I Google those that that company, they're a big company now. Like the dude made it. He had that work ethic. He had that and he went for it. You know what I'm saying? But I just didn't want it that bad. And it's like that with fitness too, man. Or any other goal. Like if you don't want it that bad, then that's cool. Just chill, man. Just chill. There's no easy way, man. There's no easy. Like honestly, if you want to accomplish something big or something really worthwhile, it's probably not an easy way to do it, right? But if so, if you don't want it bad enough, just chill. But if you want it bad enough, let's go. If you want it bad, the guy who wants it is going to go get it. The guy who wants it bad is going to get it, right? I wanted I wanted to be extra fit. Fit as hell, right? So, I I I log everything I eat. Uh, I mean, every every rep of every set, how much I rest between each sets, uh, how much water I drink per day, how much I sleep. I've been doing that for over five years. And that's when I started getting the best results when I started taking this [\h__\h] real seriously and going for it. And I tell people that, and that you need to be keeping a detailed diet and nutrition log, and they'll be like, "Ah, man, that's just kind of a lot of work. That's too much work." Then that's cool, man. Just just be like, "Yo, I don't want it that bad." And then just chill. But if you want it, let's go, man. Let's go. And it's like that with all things, you know, like that. If you want to get into an Ivy League college, you got to study. You need to get that 4.0. You know, if you want to graduate, if you want to get if you want to make a lot of money, you need to [\h__\h] put in the work. You need to put in the work. You need to grind. Like the same way I wasn't willing to at the other job, whatever you if you want if you want a good relationship, you need to put in that work with with your partner. You know, it's like it's a price to pay for everything you want in life. Find out what that price is and then pay the price or don't. But don't complain. Either you're going to do it or you're not. Peace. I'd like to take a quick second to thank everybody who bought the limited edition highife workout t-shirts. Yo, we sold like, yo, hundreds of them. Me and White Boy Brian was mailing off hundreds of them the other day. Uh I'm seeing I'm seeing your post on Instagram. I really appreciate that. Everybody showing love. Uh we still have some left if you want to get some. Some sizes are sold out. Uh so you know we but we still have some other sizes. So uh there's a link in the description. Thanks a lot everyone. I really appreciate it, man. Peace.