Yo, what's going on? This is Big Brandon Carter again. A lot of y'all know I like to work out at home, guys. It's my preference. I like to work out either at home or outside. Today I'm going to show you guys my home gym where I work out and hopefully you'll get some tips on how to set up your own home gym. All right, so first of all, I got these um little pads that I put on the floor just so like you know I'm in there. I I never drop the weights and I never do anything like and I'm not stomping around but just a little padding to make sure I don't damage the hardwood floor and uh make sure the people I live in apartment so make sure the people underneath me, you know, don't hear anything or hear as little as possible. And underneath that, I have a carpet as well, man, just to dampen any sound that I might be making in there. Then I got like a real cheap weight set off Amazon. Man, this one cost like $100. You can get it, you know what I'm saying? You can get it popping with that [\h__\h] Then I got um I really like the iron gym pull-up bar or any kind. I've seen like cheap ones in TJ Maxx for like $7, you know, that's fine. As long as you can do a pull-up on it, it's good. Then I definitely like resistance bands. You know, if you don't have some resistance bands, get you some. I like a kind called rip cords. Uh they give me the best resistance real. Um I can't think of nothing I can't do with them. You should also get something kind of suspension trainer like the human trainer or TRX or some of that nature. Um I actually have a video on how you can make your own how you can make your own homemade TRX uh for only $10. You know, I have a few other little things in my gym, man. I have uh you know [\h__\h] weight that I just found in an abandoned apartment in my building. People moved out. They left a bunch of [\h__\h] and I went rumishing through it and I found a 125 lb dumbbell. Also got a random 20 lb kettle bell and I don't even know where I got that joint from, but um I got it. I also ordered A-50 lb kettle bell. I do kettle bell swings with that. Jump squats for legs. You know, a lot I can do a lot with that ab wheel. I love the ab wheel, man. If you trying to get a six-pack, you trying to get ripped for the summer, man. Ab wheel is definitely a worthwhile investment. I got a weight vest. I got a weight vest. put that joint on and uh it makes it makes my my pull-ups and my dips and any body weight push-ups, any body weight exercising. But it it really it makes a difference, man. It makes a difference. I take it outside sometimes workout with too. Um it definitely makes a difference if you're doing like plyometric stuff or any kind of hit cardio with a weight vest on, man. That's that's about as intense as you can get. And that's about it. Like I like to work at home a lot, man. That's my thing, you know? Like cuz I I get I get it done first thing in the morning. As soon as I wake up on an empty stomach, 6:00 a.m. I wake up at 5:30 and I'm working out by 6:00, man. I don't [\h__\h] around. I get it done. Like, if you have to go to the gym, you know, you got to go to the gym and there's distractions. But like me, me, just for me, I like to work out at home. My gym, my home gym is not expensive. You know, I built it over time. You don't need everything at once. This is something I built up over the years. You know, small investments here and there. Started off with the pull-up bar, then, you know, the rip cords. Then I got then I went and got uh the weight set which made a big difference. Then I got into suspension training and all that. You know, you just you just keep building it up, man. And no reason why you can't have yourself a respectable gym on a limited budget. All right.