 zoonen, zoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-phoono-ph to learn how to accomplish this goal and how to perform this. And the way I went about it was every morning I went against the wall and I practiced just holding the handstand because I couldn't even hold a handstand at this point. So I just practiced holding the handstand every day. And I did 20 attempts. And it took me about six months to be able to just hold the handstand proficiently. And then I had to learn how to do a push-up from that position. And it took me another six months before I can do a handstand push-up proficiently. I want you to think about that. This was every day for six months. Every day. Just to get the handstand. And then another six months every day to do a push-up. It was a total of a year it took me to actually get the push-up. The handstand push-up. How many of you guys are willing to work on something every day for a year and keep going until you get it? Like how many times have you done that? I'm willing to wager that most of you haven't done that with anything. And I'm not saying that handstand push-up is a big deal. It was just, you know, a goal I set for myself. But there was a lot of lessons from there. And the number one lesson I want you to take from this is never say something is difficult. Never say something is hard. Just say you haven't got good at it yet. Or you haven't spent enough time with it yet. Because I believe with enough practice over a long enough period of time, there's nothing you can't get good at. There's no skill that you can acquire. I really believe that. Like anything. If you wanted to be a quantum physicist. If you wanted to play an instrument. If you wanted to be an amazing singer. All it takes is reps. I really believe that. It's just reps. And here's the thing. There will be points when you feel like you want to play. When I was learning how to do the handstand, there was points where I felt like, man, I ain't never going to get this. Especially like a month in. Ah, man. I don't think I'm going to get this. But for whatever reason, I kept going. A lot of you guys will quit soon as you hit that point. That point where it feels like you're never going to be able to do it. Or you feel like it's not for you. Or maybe it's not real. A lot of you guys will quit there. For example, I taught about 15,000 people how to grow their online fitness business to be successful online trainers. And a lot of people will quit too early. And sometimes I'll be able to talk them off the ledge. And I've helped like a lot of people make a lot of money. You know, I have a few students who have gone on to make over a million dollars a year in their online training business. I have thousands of students who got to six figures a year. But some people don't make it. And the people who don't make it are the ones who can't push past that point where it feels like it's not working. And keep going anyway. Those are the people who don't succeed. But it's not that they don't succeed in our program or they don't succeed in becoming an online trainer. they don't succeed in almost anything. Because that attitude will prevent you from accomplishing any skill or any goal that you want. And I want to take away goals, right? I just want to think about it in skills. Because there's a lot of we want to think about it in terms of skills because whether you accomplish a goal or not there are a lot of factors that are outside of your control when it comes to accomplishing like a goal. And like there could be bad luck, bad things to happen. But if you when it comes to acquiring skills anyone can do that. So this and to build a business to accomplish your goal financially if you want to start any sort of business the reason it's so hard the reason so many businesses fail listen to me because you have to be good at a lot of things. Right? You have to be good at whatever product or service that you're providing you have to be good at developing that. You have to be good at crafting offers. You have to be good at marketing. You have to be good at sales. You have to be good at customer service. You have to be good at a bunch of these different things. And you're typically a solopreneur when you first start your first business. So it's just you. So you're just one person who has to be good at all these things. You have to be good at accounting. You know? And that's why most people fail. But any skill can be acquired with enough reps. With enough time you can acquire any skill. Never think of it as if it's difficult or it's hard. Pause. Think of it as you just haven't spent enough time with it. It's unfamiliar to you. You just don't have enough reps. Because it's just reps. Skill acquisition is mainly about reps. So some people may think that a handstand push-up is hard. But there's someone who can do it easy. Some people somebody may think that accounting is hard. But there's someone who can do it easy. Right? Someone may think that marketing is hard. But there's someone who can do it easy. Right? And the only difference between you and that person who can do it easy is they've got more reps than you. So here's how you acquire any skill. Malcolm Gladwell made popular the idea that it takes 10,000 hours to be an expert or something. 10,000 hours of practice is in his book The Outliers. And he didn't say expert. He said like one of the best and world class. You've got to be 10,000 hours. So if that's the case skill acquisition is just a math problem. Right? It's not whether you are good at it or not. It's just a math problem. It's just have you spent enough time doing it or not. And any skill you want to acquire we just need to look at it in terms of math. Now you don't need to be world class at everything. You probably don't need to be world class at anything if you just want to get rich. You don't need to be world class. So when I came up with something called the skill acquisition matrix it's based off a lot of books I've read about skill acquisition and personal experience. And here's what I believe. 10,000 hours makes you more an expert, right? One of the best in the world. World class. But 100 hours makes you not bad. Like you're not great. Bitches ain't throwing panties at you but people aren't laughing at you either. You know? You know what I'm saying? You're not making a fool of yourself after 100 hours. Anybody who's ever played an instrument I play guitar, keyboard, and drums and anybody who's played an instrument knows that if you practice every day for an hour at around after about three months or so you should be not bad. You're not good but you're not bad. Right? Now I think 1,000 hours 1,000 hours makes you good. Not amazing. Not blowing because your mom oh this guy's good at this. He's good at 1,000 hours. He's good. Now if you want to be motherfucking amazing I think you're amazing at around 5,000 hours. I think that's when you're like you're blowing people's mind. 10,000 hours you're obviously world class. 20,000 hours makes you a legend. And I've tested this well I've polled some people who are legends in their field. One of them who I remember is Hoist Gracie. I met him at my boy Money Bird's house and I trained with him a little bit. Cool. Great, great dude. You know father of Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and I ran this idea by him. He said yeah that checks out for all the people who are like the best you know and he's got way more than hours. Right. I'll put the skill acquisition matrix up and you can see how many hours a day you need to acquire a skill and at what time front. So I'll put the skill acquisition matrix up for you. Some of you may be frustrated when you see that. You might damn it's gonna take me I'm gonna have to put in all these hours but what helps me what I find very helpful is sometimes I'll be working on a new skill focused on trying to develop something new and I get frustrated. I think we all get frustrated. You know because we're not you know really accomplishing it or it's not happening fast and where a lot of people will be frustrated and quit. Oh it's not for me or I'm just not good at this blah blah blah. I just look at how many hours I spent on it. So I track my hours that I'm working on something when I want to develop a new skill and I just look at how many hours I've worked on it and a lot of times I look at it and it's like oh I'm not even supposed to be good yet. I've only been doing this for 20 hours. I'm not supposed to be good and that's more encouraging. And then it's just a math problem. Now I just set the goal. I track how many hours I spend on this. I map out how many hours I want to spend a day based off how soon I want to accomplish the goal. And then I move with certainty knowing I will get good at this thing over a long enough time period. and all those frustrations that you feel when you're working on a goal and you don't see the progress, you don't see the visible progress, that goes away when I take it into account, hey, this is how many hours I spent on it. You know, this is how many hours I spent on it. And this, I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. So my girl wanted to learn how to trade. She saw me make a lot of money trading. And I said, all right, you got to like practice. You need to like download like market replays and run through the opens. And then, you know, paper trade at the open. You need to like put in the hours before you start putting putting the money on the shit. You're not going to be just be good at it, especially something that most people fail at. And she was kind of frustrated doing a paper trade and she was like losing. And then she wasn't really tracking how many hours she was spending on it, but we were able to estimate based on how many hours she spent. And she doesn't even have 100 hours yet. I'm like, oh, yeah, you're right where you're supposed to be. You can relax, baby. Don't even be frustrated. You are exactly where you should be based on the amount of time. And I think a lot of you guys would feel better if you look at this because I think a lot of times we expect skills to be innate. People say, oh, I'm not good at this or this is hard or this is just don't have enough time. You haven't spent enough time on it. You know, when people joined my program, High Ticket Trainer, and they say, I'm posting content, but I'm not getting the results I want yet. You're not getting it yet, brother. You're not good at making content yet. You're going to have to get some reps underneath you. You got to get good at making content. You have to get good at training people. There's no excuse, where I mean, there's no replacement for time. The only thing that can speed up your time, the only thing that can speed it up is having a coach. And I remember when I first wanted to learn guitar, I was like, all right, man, I watched YouTube videos, hit some books, maybe even buy some courses. And I did those things. And first three months, I was not bad. Not bad. after three months. Then I met a guy, he was a Nashville guitarist. He was like a session musician. And what happened was he ended up in New York for some reason. And, you know, he had played on a lot of like big time country albums, you know, like just playing guitar in the back. He got paid to play in Nashville country music shit. And he ended up in New York for whatever reason. He started teaching people guitar for like on the side for money. And I started working with him. And I would go to his crib, play guitar. And after the first month of working with him, I felt stupid because I started making more money. I'm sorry. I started, I made more progress in that month than I did the prior three months. right? So the coach can really speed up, expedite your acquisition of skills because the coach was able to see what I was doing wrong, stuff that I couldn't really see. And I would have figured that out over time, but it shortens your learning curve if you have a coach. And you've done this before, right? Think about, yeah, you can learn, you could have learned algebra on your own when you were a kid, but they didn't, they didn't just give you an algebra book and say, hey, man, figure out algebra, we'll test you at the end of the year. Nah, they had you with a teacher, like a coach, and that teacher tested you and taught you, and as a result, the reason the school board does that is because you learn faster when you have someone there teaching you. If you didn't correct that, what helped you. need to do that. So that's the one thing that can speed up skill acquisition. Anything I'm serious about getting good at, I'll hire a coach. Anything. You know, and that's how I can tell how serious I am about the thing is whether I have a coach or not. When I wanted to get good at trading, I hired a bunch of coaches and mentors. I read every book. When I wanted to get good at, listen, I had done millions of dollars in sales and I still paid the real wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort, 25 grand to spend the weekend at his crib working with me on my sales scripts and making them even better than ones that I get in my students. You know, anything I'm serious about improving, I get a coach, but still need the hours. Coach can't do the work for you. He can just help you get the hours. Listen, if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, I got a free e-book link in the description to show you how. And also, just keep in mind, man. Start tracking how many hours you spend on something. And instead of getting frustrated, just think to yourself, man, am I supposed to be good right now? Let me look at how many hours I spent. And then when you look at the skill acquisition matrix, you'll probably realize, oh, I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. All right? I'll let y'all. Peace.