In my early 30s, I learned one of the most important life lessons I ever came across. So, I saw a dude doing handstand push-ups outside in the park and I was amazed for if I would have saw this on the internet like today for the first time, I would have thought it was AI. I was like, there's no way he's got his hands on the floor. He's doing handstand push-ups and not against the wall. I I couldn't believe it. And I made it my mission to learn how to accomplish this goal and h how to perform this. And the way I went about it was every morning I went against the wall and I practiced just holding a handstand because I couldn't even hold a handstand at this point. So, I just practiced holding the handstand every day and I did 20 attempts and it took me about six months to be able to just hold the handstand proficiently. Then I had to learn how to do a push-up my hands, you know, from from that position and it took me another six months before I can do a handstand push-up proficiently. I want you to think about that. This was every day for six months, everything just to get the handstand. And then another six months every day to do a push-up. It was a total of a year it took me to actually get the push-up, the handstand push-up. How many of you guys are willing to work on something every day for a year and keep going until you get it? Like how many how many times have you done that? I'm willing to wager that most of you haven't done that with anything. And I'm not saying that handstand push-ups is a big deal. It was just, you know, a goal I set for myself. But it was a lot of lessons from there. And the the number one lesson I want you to take from this is never say something is difficult. Never say something is hard. Just say you haven't got good at it yet or you haven't spent enough time with it yet. Because I believe with enough practice over a long enough period of time is nothing you can't get good at. There's no skill that you can acquire. I really believe that like anything if you wanted to be a a quantine physicist, if you wanted to play instrument, if you wanted to be an amazing singer, all it takes is reps. I I really believe that it's just reps. And here's the thing, there will be points when you feel like you want to put when I was learning how to do the handstand. There was points where I felt like, man, I ain't never going to get this, especially like a month in. Uh, oh man, I don't think I'm going to get this. But for whatever reason, I kept going. A lot of you guys will quit soon as you hit that point, that point where it feels like you're never going to be able to do it or you you feel like it's not for you or maybe it's not real. A lot of you guys will quit there. For example, I taught about 15,000 people how to grow their online fitness business and be successful online trainers. And a lot of people will quit too early. And sometimes I'll be able to talk them off the ledge. And we I've helped like a lot of people who make a lot of money. You know, I have a few students who have who have gone on to make over a million dollars a year in their online training business. I I have thousands of students who got to six figures a year, but some people don't make it. And the people who don't make it are the ones who can't push past that point where it feels like it's not working and keep going anyway. Those are the people who don't succeed. But it's not that they don't succeed in our program or they don't succeed in in becoming online trainer. They don't succeed in almost anything because that attitude will prevent you from accomplishing any skill or any goal that you want. And I I I I want to take away goals, right? I just want to think about it in skills because there's a lot of we want to think about it in terms of skills because whether you accomplish a goal or not, there are a lot of factors that are outside of your control when it comes to accomplishing like a goal and like there could be bad luck, bad things happen, but if you when it comes to acquiring skills, anyone can do that. So this and to build a business to accomplish your goal financially if you're going to start any sort of business the reason it's so hard the reason so many businesses fail listen to me because you have to be good at a lot of things right you have to be good at whatever product or service that you're providing. You have to be good at developing that. You have to be good at uh crafting offers. You have to be good at marketing. You have to be good at sales. You have to be good at customer service. You have to be good at a bunch of these different things and you're typically a soloreneur when you first start your first business. So it's just you. So it's one person who has to be good at all these things. You have to be good at accounting, you know, and that's why most people fail. But any skill can be acquired with enough reps or enough time you can acquire any skill. Never think of it as if it's difficult or it's hard. Pause. Think of it as you just haven't spent enough time with it. It's unfamiliar to you. You just don't have enough reps because it's just reps. Skill acquisition is mainly about reps. So, some people may think that a handstand push-up is hard, but there's someone who can do it easily. Some people, somebody may think that accounting is hard, but some someone who who can do it easy, right? Someone may think that marketing is hard, but it's someone who can do it easy, right? And and the only difference between you and that person who can do it easy is they got more reps than you. So, here's how you acquire any skill. Malcolm Gladwell made popular the idea that it takes 10,000 hours to be an expert at something. 10,000 hours of practice. It was in his book, The Outliers. And he didn't say expert, he said like one of the best, like world class. You got to be 10, you got to have 10,000 hours. So if that's the case, skill acquisition is just a man's problem. Right? It's not whether you are good at it or not. It's just a math problem. It's just have you spent enough time doing it or not? And any skill you want to acquire. We just need to look at it in terms of math. Now, you don't need to be world class at everything. You probably don't need to be world class at anything if you just want to get rich. You don't need to be world class. So, what I came up with was something called the skill acquisition matrix. is based off a lot of books I've read about skill acquisition and and personal experience. And here's here's what I believe. 10,000 hours makes you more an expert, right? One of the best in the world, world class. But 100 hours makes you not bad. Like, you're not great. [\h__\h] ain't throwing panties at you, but people aren't laughing at you either. You know, you know what I'm and you're not making a fool of yourself after 100 hours. Anybody who's ever played instrument, I played guitar, keyboard, and uh drums. And anybody who's played instrument knows that if you practice every day for an hour at the at around after after about three months or so, you should be not bad. You're not good, but you're not bad. right now. I think a th000 hours 1 th000 hour makes you good. Not amazing. Not blowing people with your mind. Oh, this guy's good at this. He's good at a thousand hours. He's good. Now, if you want to be [\h__\h] amazing, you're I think you're amazing at around 5,000 hours. I think that's when you're like, "Yo, you're blowing people's mind. 10,000 hours, you're obviously uh world class. 20,000 hours makes you a legend. And I've tested this. Well, I I've pulled some people who are legends in their field. One one of them who I remember is Hoist Gracie. I met him at my boy Money Burch's house and I trained with them with him a little bit. Cool. Great deal. You know, father of Brazilian jiujitsu. And I ran this idea by him. He said, "Yeah, that checks out for all the people who are like the best, you know, and uh he's got way more. Hoor got way more than 2,000 hours, right? I'll put the skill acquisition matrix up and you can see how many hours a day you need to acquire a skill and at what time frame. So, I'll put the the the skill acquisition matrix up for you. Some of you may be frustrated when you see that. You like, damn, it's going to take me I'm have to put in all these hours. But what helps me, what I find very helpful is sometimes I'll be working on a new skill, focus on trying to develop something new. And I get frustrated. I think we all get frustrated, you know, because we're not, you know, really accomplishing it or it's not happening fast. And where a lot of people get frustrated, they quit. Ah, this is not for me or I'm just not good at this, blah, blah, blah. I just look at how many hours I spent on. So, I track my hours that I'm working on something when I want to develop a new skill. And I just look at how many hours I worked on it. And I a lot of times I look at it like, "Oh, I'm not even supposed to be good yet. I've only been doing this for only got 20 hours, you know? I'm not supposed to be good." And that's more encouraging. And then it's just a math problem. Now I just set the goal. I track how many hours I spend on this. I map out how many hours I want to spend a day based off how soon I want to accomplish the goal. And then I I I I move with certainty knowing I will get good at this thing over enough time over a long enough time period. And you know all those frustrations that you feel when you're working on a goal and you don't see the progress, you don't see the visible progress that goes away when I take into account, hey, this is how many hours I spent on it. You know, this is how many hours I spent on it and this I I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. So my girl wanted to learn how to trade. She saw me make a lot of money trading and I said, "All right, you got to like practice. You need to like download like market replays and run through the opens and then you know uh paper trade at the open. You need to like put in the hours before you start putting putting the money on this [\h__\h] You're not going to be just be good at it. Especially something that most people fail at. And she was kind of frustrated. She doing a paper trade and she was like losing. And then she wasn't really tracking how many hours she was spending on it. But we were able to estimate based how many hours she spent and she doesn't even have 100 hours yet. I'm like, "Oh, you Yeah, you're you're right where you're supposed to be. You can relax, baby. Don't even be frustrated. You are exactly where you should be based off the amount of time." Yeah. And I think a lot of you guys will feel better if you look at this because I think a lot of times we expect skills to be innate. People say, "Oh, I'm not good at this or this is hard or this is not for me." when it's it's really just just don't have enough time. You haven't spent enough time on it. You know, when people join my program, uh, high ticket trainer and they they say they and I'm posting content, but I'm not getting the I'm not getting the results I want yet. You're not getting it yet, brother. You're not good at making content yet. Like, you got to get you you're gonna have to get some reps, son, you, right? You gotta get good at making content. You have to get good at training people. you you need there's no there's no excuse for I mean there's there's no replacement for time the only thing that can speed up your time right the only thing can speed it up is is having a coach and I I remember you when I first wanted to learn guitar I was like all right man I watched some YouTube videos and some books maybe even buy some courses and I did those things and first three months I was not bad. Not bad. After three months, then I met a guy. He was a Nashville's guitarist. He was like a session mi music m music m music m music m music m music music music magic music music music musician and what happened was he he ended up in New York for some reason and you know he had played on a lot of like big time country albums you know like he's playing guitar in the back he got paid to play Nashville on on country music [\h__\h] and he ended up in New York for whatever reason he started teaching people guitar for like on the side for money and I started working with him and I would go to his crib, play guitar and after the first months of working with him, I felt stupid because I started making more money. I'm sorry. What don't I started I made more progress in that month than I did the prior three months, right? So the coach can really speed up, expedite your acquisition of skills because the coach was able to see what I was doing wrong, stuff that I couldn't really see and I would have figured that out over time, but it shortens your learning curve if you have a coach. And you've done this before, right? Think about it. Yeah, you can learn. You could have learned algebra on your own when you were a kid, but they didn't they didn't just give you an algebra book and say, "Hey, man, figure out algebra. We we'll test you at the end of the year." No, they they had you with a teacher who like a coach and that teacher tested you and taught you and as a result the reason the school board does that because you you learn faster when you have someone there teach you. So that's the one thing that speed up skill acquisition. Any any any thing I'm serious about getting good at, I'll hire a coach. anything, you know, and and that's how I can tell how serious I am about the thing is whether I have a coach or not. When I wanted to get good at trading, I hired a bunch of coaches and mentors. I read every book. Uh when I wanted to get good at, listen, I I had had done millions of dollars in sales and I still paid the the real Wolf Wall Street, Jordan Builford, 25 grand to spend the weekend at his crib work working with me on my sales scripts and making them even better. are the ones that I get in my students. You know, anything I'm I'm serious about improving, I get a coach. But still need the hours. Coach can't do the work for you. Just help you get the hours. Listen, if you want to learn to grow your online fitness business, I got a free uh ebook link in description to show you how. And also, just keep this in mind, man. Start tracking how many hours you spend on something. And instead of getting frustrated, just think to yourself, man, am I supposed to be good by now? Let me look how many hours I spent. And then when you look at the skill acquisition matrix, you'll probably realize, "Oh, I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be." All right, I'll let y'all.