Yo, what up? What up? Welcome to another episode of Victory Talk. And this episode, man, I wanted to highlight a young entrepreneur. She's 21 years old. She making big moves. She's from Chicago just like me. And that's why I wanted to bring her on so she could tell her story, maybe inspire y'all, cuz I know there's a lot of young people here from similar backgrounds. And uh I wanted to bring Ariel on. What's going on, man? Hi. I'm doing really well. I'm just glad to be here. Was How So you 21year-old business owner? How long you been? When did you start? So, I started my first business when I was 14 years old. Um, you know, I was living in Chicago. Yeah. And I I wasn't old enough to get a job. So, I started so early because I had no other choice because what I was dealing with at home, I'm like, I need to make some money. I need to find a way to make some money. And it's like the only option was for me to figure out a business to start. Yeah. Well, that's not the only option in Chicago, man. It's like, man, some crazy. That was only legal option. If it was even legal to be working at y'all, I don't know if it is, man. So, what what did you do? So, I started No, this is good you asked this cuz a lot of times some young people ask me, "Yo, I'm I'm 14. I'm 15. Yeah, how can I get some money?" I'm like I'm like, "Motherfucker, you don't, right?" Like, cuz But you figured out what what did you So, maybe that can spark. Um, so I started doing hair. So, I started my sister used to like make wigs and stuff and I would help her and so I'm like, "Okay, I'm gonna try and make a wig." And I just told myself like a little bit better how to make the wigs and I'm like, "Okay, I know how." So, I posted on Facebook like, "Uh, who want wigs made? $90, $100, who want wigs made? Clients like looking for clients." And so, it started off like that. And then I started doing like my first sew in and I was just literally practicing something and then instantly like posting it on the internet asking somebody to pay me to do it for them. Oh, okay. Okay. So you post so you your first clients was off like Facebook like your family and friends. Yeah. But I was like practicing the mannequin heads before I even had clients. So I would post the mannequin heads. Oh yeah. And then like my little sister, she was like four years old. I practice some French braids on her and I post that like I I and then I do it on myself and post myself and you got clients off that. Yeah. I mean it wasn't crazy. I didn't blow up but that was your first Yeah, it was coming in. All right. Now, what was the first like I know that that probably got you your start. Let you know that it was possible. What was your first like business like venture that actually started making you some real money? Um, hair hair started making me the the most money at the time when I was like um 16 and 17 years old. So, I I really stuck to it. And by by the time I was 16, that's when I started seeing $10,000 months, six figure years. And then um by 17 when CO came, my income doubled to multiple six figures. So, I was still in a hair. Doing hair like what were you doing here? You was like just doing people's hairs or what? I was doing wig installs. Wig with what? Wig installs inst but that was by the time I was that age when I started off when I was 14 and stuff. I was doing box braids. I was I was doing whatever possible. I was doing whatever whatever somebody's going to pay me for. But I doubled down by the time like a couple years pass co started. Yeah. Got it. Got it. Got it. And then what what do you do now? Now I do business culture and digital marketing online. So basically my entrepreneurship journey has made people not only pay attention to what I was doing but how I was doing it. And so a demand a demand came about for people to want to learn from me. How do you market like this on social media? How do you do this? How do you do that? So it's like okay sounds like I got to start teaching. So I started teaching people how to um scale their businesses online. And some people don't know how to make content. They don't know how to market. they don't even know how to form their business, build the foundation. So, I help with things like that. And then also, I sell wholesale vendors. So, if someone want to start a clothing business, they want to start a hair business, I go straight to China, I go straight to Vietnam work, and I um source the suppliers in person, test it, and then I sell it to people on social media. How's how's that work for you with the the terrorists and [\h__\h] Uh the terrorists. So I um luckily the suppliers that I use have US locations as well. So they would just ship out of their US factory to where they avoid the tariff fees right now. So a lot of people did get worried but it worked in my favor. The tariff fees worked in my favor with that. I'm like well I'm one of the only people who got a US-based supplier who have US locations they can ship from. So that's what's up. So you not just you not you even though you coach businesses, you coach people is you still running your your business. Yeah, that's what's up. What's What are some of the You said you help people uh with social media and number. What is what get give us some tips like the young entrepreneurs, right? You know, cuz I'm I'm 42, right? So, I don't know what it's like to be in, you know, in their early 20s, man. What would you say uh to somebody who's watching this like 20? What were some tips you give them? Um, I really feel like it's not even an age on it because it's like no matter how old you are, some people might be in the same position. I feel like do not wait for something to be perfect. People want to wait until everything seemed perfect to start. No, you start and then you make it perfect. Overall, it's never going to be perfect, right? You get better by experience. You learn through trial and error. And some people do not understand that. I think that they they're in their imagination so much that they're imagining something in some form of perfection that don't exist. If you're going to get into entrepreneurship, you have to understand it's going to be ups and downs. No, you're not going to blow up on the first day. You're not going to blow up on the first night. You might not blow up on the first month or the first year, but most likely you'll make enough money to get back monthto month and have your bills paid. So, that should be enough for you to stick to it and keep going. But yeah, I think people expect it to come easy. It's not easy. No matter if it look easy today to this person that you look up to, that person is not easy and it was never easy and it's still not easy. You just got to fall in love with it. Yo, there's always some always some struggles that everyone go through. Yeah. Like it's not like what what are some of the struggles you had to go through? like some of the struggles I had to go through. It's it's really it's I don't know if I should consider it a lot or not, but one thing that I struggle with is when it came to dealing with people, I didn't um realize that I was not only signing up for teaching people, but I was signing up for dealing with other people's emotions as well. Uh you when you say people, what people are you talking about employees? You talking about vendors? Employee employees um you know customers. Yeah. So it's like me helping people start or start or scale their businesses. It's more so a mindset thing rather than a physical thing because I've noticed that I can teach I can teach you everything I know. I can teach, I can give you the blueprint, but if you don't do nothing with it, then what are we doing? But then they have the ability to blame you for not working because it's like, oh, I put I put my problems in your hands, right? But I still didn't fix I still didn't fix my discipline issue, my self-control issue, my dedication. But at least now I got somebody to blame. Yeah. No. No. Straight up. That's some real That's some real [\h__\h] cuz I you know I started off as a personal trainer like I started like so if they they pay you to train them and now they didn't go home and eat right but they're going to blame you. They going to say you're not a good trainer. It ain't it ain't working. I'm like [\h__\h] you not working. Yeah. Is it is the teacher not working or you not working? That's a prime example. They can pay you to be their personal trainer. They can come to the gym every day. If they don't go home and eat right, you're not going to see results. But since they finally paying somebody Yeah. That's a big fact, man. That sometimes people just looking for a scapegoat or they want it, but they, you know, they might not want it the way they they think they want it. They might not want as bad as they or they might not know that they're not buying. They're not buying you. They're not buying your body. Yeah. They're not buying your discipline. They're not buying your ambition. They think it's just going to rub off, but they got it. No, you're buying the ingredients. You're buying the instructions. You're buying the knowledge and the education. So I um I in today's time I struggle with like you know how to navigate through that. Yeah. Cuz I'm like oh this is about to be a long journey. Yeah. Yeah. This is about to be a long journey. So how to deal with situations like that? Um I I deal with them but it's like I know in entrepreneurship you got to know that it's not going to end. It's never going to stop. So how are you going to handle these situations when that happens? M. So yeah, that's one of the things. And what's another one? What are some things you had to change about yourself, right? Cuz you said the key boy they got to change their discipline like what what is things you had to change to become successful at such a young age? Um first to become successful at a young age, I had to change my environment. So as you know, I grew up on the south side of Chicago. I used to live on 71st and King Drive. I actually it was house to house every single year. Every year we got evicted. So I lived on the east side. I I lived on 70 I lived on 78th in Coo 7th in Palina. I lived on 71st in King Drive. I'm love going here here here. So um when I was 17, I'm like first off I'm tired of being everywhere. And second off, this is not how I want to live. It wasn't the best houses. It was 10 of us in two bedroom. I'm like this is not how I want to live. So once I got myself together with um doing hair at the time, I first thing I did in my first apartment, I moved downtown into a condo, a high-rise building like I didn't even know anything. I didn't even know that condos were a thing. I just used to think the skyline downtown was just for show. Yeah. Like it's just office building. Yeah. I didn't know people live there too. I didn't know people live there until one time I went like to somebody else like you live here this like what you want a condom. Yeah. So, my first apartment during COVID, I caught a high-rise apartment on the 16th floor downtown River North for 1,200 $1,500 a month. Okay, that was great for um that was great for downtown. So, yeah, first thing changed my environment. Then also changed the people who I was around because I noticed that um the people as I was elevating, the people who I were hanging around start to act they started to act different. In what way? like in a a jealous and envious way, especially being a female. Um, and it came from me and women. So, it would be like I think that some people like to see you in a certain position. They don't want to see you grow and they don't want to see you grow more than them. They definitely don't want to see you. Yeah. Especially know Especially knowing that you're around each other like like we hang we hang every day. We like we do the same type of stuff. But I'm still here and you you growing. You going up up up up up and I'm still right here. They like, "What about me? Do something." Yeah. Like, "Do something. If you don't do nothing, you're not going to get nothing." So, I had to change the type of people who I hung around because it would always be like, you know, people acting weird, people starting to sneak diss me and spread rumors about me or some people really hate the way other people love you. So, they would like try to sabotage my name a lot of times because they'll see like how people show me love. And I guess just that spirit in them will be like, damn. Was that was that difficult for you? Oh, yeah. I hated it on all my life. Yeah. So, when did it happen? And I'll be like, I know exactly what's happen. I know. I know what this is. I've seen it before. And it's like, so you had to make like new friends basically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What was that like? Amazing. Yeah. It was better, right? How do you how do you go about that? Cuz sometimes people they hit me up and they ask, "Yo, how how do I go about meeting different kind of people? where I want to up up elevate my social circle. You got to go to the right places. Don't expect to meet someone to elevate your social circle at the club. Yeah. Or at a house party, at a at a bar even. Yeah. Right. Like you want to meet people at the gym. Yeah. You want to pe meet people at networking events. You want to meet people at car dealerships. M like you want to meet people like I don't know search for real estate like in the place like the type of friends you want to have with the type of habits that you want to have go to those places and you're going to meet like-minded people man you know it's funny man I'm I'm I'm super glad to hear you say that especially at a young age cuz my nephew he's still in Chicago right he's still on Southside and I helped him it was like during co I helped him start a business and he he made like over a million dollars right he's a super excited for him, right? And uh he's in his 20s and but he stayed on the southside. He didn't leave. He stayed on the southside. So like his homies is getting shot and robbed and every like like real [\h__\h] Leave. Why would you leave? And then he bought all this [\h__\h] jewelry and [\h__\h] like butt down watches. They going to want to see they think you think that these people want to see you with the bust down watches with the cars with the money and they can't they're not getting none. Yeah. They're not going to be genuinely happy for you. We don't see that in Chicago. Nah, it's not there. I mean, no, it's not it's not like it's not like in Miami. And even still, like you I mean, nothing like that ever happened to them. Like I I would be scared though, like when he was walking around with like, you know, it's not safe. You become a target cuz you're the people around you are not living like that. They're not dressing like that. They're not No. And I tried to get him to come out here, right? I I tried to get him out. I like I brought him out here for a month and I put him in a in a place and uh he went back to the southside, you know, and he almost lost all his money like he broke again because he because he still because he didn't get from around those people that he grew up with. He didn't get get from around those people with that stagnant mindset. So you're growing. You were supposed to move around. You weren't supposed to stay there. But I told him to come out here with me, right? Not he couldn't stay with me, right? here in V. But like I tell I got him a place downtown like for the for the summer and I was like yo stay here and then like you know get your [\h__\h] together and then get you know he move back to Chicago man. He broke man at the cuz it's like you don't even see better out there. Like I love sign city don't get me wrong but it's like come on. Okay if you at this level like you need to see people doing better than you. You need to see better houses than you. You need to see people with better cars than you. You need to you need to hear and see people making way more money than you. If you the if you making the most money in your friend group, you making the most money in your neighborhood, you making the most money in your city, you in the wrong city, wrong neighborhood, wrong city, you going to be you a target. Exactly. Like me and my friend um we were talking. She was like, "Man, um yeah, I just moved in this new building. I got a really really good I'm like I got a really really good price." She was like, "I make like 30." She was like, "I make like 30,000 a month." She's like, "I think I'm the poorest person in my building." Yeah. She was like, "I think I'm the poorest person." And it's just so funny because she's doing really well for herself, but it's just like when you get in that room, when you get in that location, when you get in that environment, that's a fact. It's like, you think you doing all of this, but no. What people making 300 million a month, 300,000 a month. So, it was just so funny because it's like she weren't she wasn't downplaying herself, but it's like Yeah, we know what it's like. like, "Yeah, okay. I'm making 30,000 a month. I might be the poorest person here." Yeah. And it's [\h__\h] up being it [\h__\h] it's [\h__\h] up being your richest friend. Like I remember like year like a long time ago like I felt that way and because it was nobody you can ask for advice. Bingo. You know what I'm saying? Bingo. Like if you if you the big dog then it's like it's like who I going to talk to? Me and my um friends, we're all in different states and cities. So it's like when we find each other it's like a gym cuz we get to talk. We get to talk about our business. We get to talk about um our webinars, our funnels. Like this is this working for you? What's your conversion like? And they like, "Dang, man. I ain't got nobody else to talk this stuff about." You still Why you stay in Chicago? Huh? Why you stay in Chicago? Why you like I I only go back. I left Chicago. I love Chicago, too. But I left Chicago. Oh, you left Chicago? I live in Miami now. Oh, okay. Smart move. Small move. Yeah. I I got the [\h__\h] out. I got I I went to college in DC and then uh I would only go back to visit and holidays and like Yeah, that's it. Now, I can say in um 2022, I left when I was 18, but I was still doing hair when I came down here. Yeah. I'm like, I need more money. I'm like, I'm not making enough money. I'm like, in order to live in Miami, you need to be making digital income. You need to be have a passive income. Like, you need to be having the money flowing. I can't come down here and go look for clients to do hair all day. like I'm starting back at square one and these people are crazy rich. Yeah. So I turned around, went back to Chicago. Oh word. Made more money, started my digital income journey, came back. That's what's up. Popping it. Nice. Nice. Nice. Okay. How long you been living in Miami? A year. A year. Uhhuh. What's the main difference? He was asking me, "What's the main difference in your opinion between Chicago and Miami?" I feel like um first off, I feel like Miami is safer for people doing well for themselves. Yeah, it's definitely I feel that way. Yeah, violence is still crazy in Chicago. I mean, I still got Chicago Facebook on my every day somebody shot, everybody every day somebody killed literally about to be summer. You know that. Yeah. Every time it's about to be summer, everybody gets scared. They like, listen, same thing every year. Um and then the people are way more, in my opinion, people are way more social here in Miami. in Chicago. In Chicago, people are not that social. Um, Chicago got a dark cloud over it. I'm not I'm not surprised. It's a dark cloud over Chicago. People are angry. People are like, you know, everybody going through something. That's it. That's that's what it feel like. It feel like everybody going through something. Everybody resent something. Everybody mad. We done lost everybody lost somebody. I lost people. It's just like it's not that much of a friendly happy place all the time. Unless you unless the sun come out one day and now we like, "Oh my god, the sun. Hey, I feel good. Let's go to the lake. Like, you know. Yeah. No, when I go back when I go back to Chicago, I I don't go to the south side. Like, I tell I I've been trying to get my sister to move cuz I moved my mom out long time ago. Like, and uh I try to get my sister to move, but if she want to kick it, now you got to come with me. Yeah. It takes a lot to pull somebody out of the city. Like, it's just a comfort zone. Like, people don't want to leave their comfort zone. People don't want to leave what they're used to. So, I mean, like I still got family in Chicago. I'm trying to Hello, black ass wants everybody else. Yeah. So, I'm trying to pull them out and it's like it's like you fighting with their mindset at this point cuz you know that Miami is better or you know that this other state is better. That's what's up. So, listen, you help you you actually been helping other people accomplish some of the same stuff you Yes. So, that's really what my role is now to to help other people accomplish the things I've accomplished or more. And like I've come to realization that the goal really is to duplicate another me like to create another me. And some people will only teach you just enough to not be better than them. Yeah. But I feel like a real leader, a real mentor is someone who's willing to go towards duplicating another them. That's a fact. That's a fact. Mhm. What what are some of the let's say you were you were coaching somebody, right? What what are some of the what are some adi pieces of advice you give them or not advice, what are like five things someone needs to do, right, to get started to start moving towards the path to get started to start um like get their business from scratch or if they say this [\h__\h] he's just started. He's just trying he's trying to figure it out. Well, I think they first need to work in their social media presence, right? Because people need to understand that your social media presence is like your first impression. It it lets people know if they want to see what you're about, if they raise questions, if you make them curious, like, "Oh, okay. He said he do this. Let me see." And it's like, if you got a bunch of unintentional blurry pictures on your page, no professional pictures, or your videos still look like it's 3, four years ago. Like, content is so elevated right now. It's so elevated. I'm not saying you got to have the most craziest edited video, but it has to at least be good quality. Yeah. Like what makes a good quality video? A good quality is literally 4K camera, uh, good lighting or the iPhone with some good lighting, good angles, not shaky, like you have to really make it look good. So, your your social media presence, um, the quality of your content, and then being intentional. People think it's just, oh, picking up a phone because you have to market your business, right? You have to market your business, but it's not just picking up your phone, recording a random video. Like, no one's going to care. Literally, no one's going to care. So, you have to be intentional with the content that you put out with everything you do. And then building the foundation correctly. Some people don't even know their why. They don't even know their purpose. Their only purpose is to make some money. And if your only purpose is to make some money, no, that's not going to go far. And then understand that um marketing is everything. It's not about the best product. It's about the best promoted. That's a fact. So you be mad cuz somebody stuff not better than yours and they make more money than you doing better than you. It's because how they doing it, right? It's because the way they promote themselves. You can't be mad. You entitled thinking that everybody post to know you your stuff is this good and you don't market it correctly or promote it correctly. So marketing is everything in business. As of how did you learn it? It I learned it like Okay. It really tied into I used to dance in Chicago. I used to do hip-hop like the Bilican parade every year for Yeah, I did B five times. So on a dance team. Yeah. When she said dance, man. She Yeah. Did Miami mean something? Sorry. Miami me something. No, real dancing. Um, so when I was on a dance team, I mean it was like competition. So we had to be better than the other teams, whether it was with what we were wearing, whether I mean how we presented ourselves, the dance, how we were performing, dance we were doing. So I always had that competitive energy to do everything better than anybody else in my industry or anybody else around me. So it's just like I already had that competitive energy. So, the way that I put my content out there, I always think of the best of the best. Something that everybody else is not doing. How can this be unique? Like, what's going to make somebody choose me over the next person? And then my dance coach, uh, he passed away. Rest in peace to him. He um put me on a he put the whole team in a party. He turned us into party promoters. He made a party promoter group out of the people on the dance team. So, you know, we were young, so we just doing whatever. We just doing whatever. So, we would have to promote the parties at the same times every single day. Like every day at 5:00, he it like 30 of us. Okay, y'all flood the timeline at 5:00. Post the flyer six times. Go comment on everybody post you see on Facebook. Go post a picture and put the party in your caption. So, like we will drown Facebook pro and we will pack out the parties too. But it was like we had like methods and strategies to flood and promote and market. So it' be somebody like, "Oh, I'm bored." Making a status and I go crumbling under their status like, "You bored? Ain't no way to be bored if we got this party tonight. Make sure we show up to market." Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We were gorilla marketing. So the same energy, I just applied it to my business cuz it was like already instilled in me. So it's like a little weird way of me learning, but I feel like you should use what you know in other areas and apply it to your business. Do you help any kind of person who's trying to build a business or is there a specific type of person or business you looking for? No, it's pretty general. I feel like all business is run off of systems and marketing. So, um the methods that I do teach is pretty general for it to fit in any category for the most part. Okay. Mhm. How many how many people have you helped so far? I got 50 mentees right now. That's what's up. Y congratulations. Thank you. And like every round that I do, I usually have like 30 40 mentees, but this is my um higher ticket. My mentorship right now is like the most that I've charged and they're living in. Yeah. And then and it's been more it was more people really. Yeah. So I feel like it's more value when you really like charge you're supposed to charge. Yeah. Now you got a lot of people scared to charge, you know, uh really charge anything, right? But charge they're supposed to charge. Uh does that some is that something you you work struggle with? I never struggle with that, but I make sure I teach it. Yeah. I'm like, listen, you need to pay yourself. Yeah. Like time is money. Value your time where people won't value you. Like people people value stuff more when they pay for it. Yeah. The more you pay, the more you pay. Yeah. If you give them something free, they ain't going to take care of it. Even if it's something really good, they're not going to care for it because it was free. That's a fact. People pay, they take it more serious. H How do you teach people to get over that? cuz I I I get that with some of the people I work with too. But how do you get them? I be just preaching. You just told me to press it like listen. Uh like I just be pressing it. Pressing it. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like what I always tell people is that like you know price is is illusion, you know? It's like it's not even real. It's just really what what someone is willing to pay for something. Yeah. And then everybody is not broke. That's fact. Like would you why would you sell a $100 product to a $1,000 client? They came ready to spend $1,000 with your stuff so cheap. Yeah. They're like, "Oh, that's it. All right. I got an extra $900 today." Yeah. Or be like, "Yo, this or be like, yo, this [\h__\h] ain't for me." You know what I'm saying? Like, oh, this must like I want the [\h__\h] I want Yeah. I want I want the best. I don't want the regular [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? Like it's like, "Oh, this what this this then your shooter is positioned like it's McDonald's or something." Exactly. Right. Okay. Now they think of it as fast food quality. So like they even if they do, why is the burger $1? This can't be real food. Word. Ain't no way this real meat. Word. Yeah. If it's too cheap, like people get actually skeptical like, "Yo, what the fuck?" Yeah. Unless you want to attract cheap clients and they give you cheap behavior. Yo, they the people who pay the least are the most stressful. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. The people who pay the most is they're usually calmer. You know what I'm saying? About it because it it wasn't a big percentage. The people who basically Yeah. The people who pay more, they're less problematic and they take it more serious and they value it more. People who spend their last, some people who spend their last, they um people who spend their last, they will literally treat you like they spent their last. Like when people spend that last with you, they would give you a problem because they generally just want their money back cuz they got no more money. You know what? Yo, that's a fact. That's a fact. I every once but sometimes I get I remember there's this one dude who he I didn't know this till later. He didn't tell me, but you know when he when he uh paid for coaching with with me, this is like a long time ago, like 5 years ago. And he told me that he was he it was like his last money. Like he had to fast for like a few days cuz he had like food money, bro. But now, but he worked super he worked super hard, bro. I love the people who would spend their last and then work hard. Like if you're going to spend your last, you need to you need to be the hungriest ever. the most. You need to execute. You need Don't even go to sleep. Yeah. Yeah. You don't even need to be sleeping. You need to be like really maximizing your investment, making your money back, and making it make sense. Don't spend your last. If you're still not ready to take it serious, cuz if you spent your last and you're not ready to challenge your discipline and challenge yourself, it don't matter. And don't come blaming me. Yeah. that you know you know it's really that that's that's usually the hardest part like is getting people to implement. So sometimes you get some some people who just like really really want it and those are the people who are they're coachable and if your [\h__\h] is good right what you're teaching is good you'll get the most results right but everybody doesn't get results it depends on the I mean I'm sure there is some [\h__\h] out here but if your [\h__\h] is even decent and somebody goes all out they should get some kind yeah I always say um you what you put in is what you get out right so It's like you got to do the work. Yeah. If if you don't do nothing, you're not going to get nothing. So you can It don't matter how many YouTube videos you watch, how much information you consume, how many uh mentorships you pay for. Yeah. If you don't do what they're telling you to do, you're not going to get what you want to get. Or, you know, it's also what you said is 100% true, but it's also the the the mindset you approach it with. you know, like for example, I remember uh it was it was a while ago and I I paid like 25 grand, right, to spend the weekend with uh the real Wolf of Wall Street, the dude from the the real dude, you know what I'm saying? And we was going to work on sales. He was going to go over our sales scripts and stuff and uh there was another dude there and uh he he was felt like man I felt like we got at the end he felt like oh we got we kind of got we get 25k worth of of value and to his point he did the wolf did not give us every No the wolf didn't give us everything he said he was going to get right straight up I I ain't even going to lie I can't but however I approached the [\h__\h] like no I'm going to get 25 I'm going get at least whatever I need to do to make sure that this was worth I'm going to make sure I get it at least 25K out about because it's 25K in 2 days, right? That's that is asking a lot, right? But it's like, no, I'm going to make sure I get it. So, I didn't feel like I got ripped off. I felt I got what I work to do and I'm going to do the work that money back, right? But this this dude, he was complaining, man. He weren't really doing nothing for real. Yeah. I I don't really know what his work ethic was like, but I just know we went into He went into it like, man, I want to see if this is worth it. I want I'm going to make sure it's worth it. Yeah, you make you the one who makes it worth it. Like like it's going to be valuable. It's It should be good, but you the one who you're the one who's going to make sure it's worth it. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Like I'm going to make sure I It's not going to be worth if all you did was go read the information and like, okay. Yeah. And then it's also it's also what's worth it, right? Like cuz some people like you got to AP I got some people say that it ain't worth it, right? You tell the phone. So, it's always like it's some of it is subjective as well. Yeah. It's how you do it because it's going to be worth it to a person who uses it for networking and conversation starters and meeting meeting great people. But for someone who don't know how to use it to market and network, they're going to feel like it's not worth it. Or yeah, you know, or or if you just like the [\h__\h] right? Like you can spend the money on you don't see the value, right? It's all good. Yeah. Uh that's what's up, man. Well, what what would what's some advice you would give just in closing? What's some advice you would give to like the young young entrepreneurs trying to really make it, you know, especially if they come from environments like we come from this and [\h__\h] you know? I mean, I always say like you just got to have massive activity, right? You have to have massive activity every single day. You should be consumed with doing something to be better. Whether it's your fitness, whether it's your financial, whether it's your business goals, like it's too we got 24 hours in a day, right? Mhm. You should be using all of your time for something beneficial. So therefore, you have to take away things that don't matter. Gossiping, endless scrolling, binge watching TV, wasting time. Literally wasting time. Now you're bedr riding. You're in a bed all day. And somebody else just worked out. They just came with a business plan. They made content and posted it. They made $3,000. Now they're like, like, do you know what you can do with time? So I think my advice would be to value your time more and make a plan. Some people don't have a plan. You can't just wing it. Yeah. You got to you got to really time and time is Bruce Lee said if you love life don't waste time cuz time is what life wants me up. All right. So I feel like that'll be really the thing like again find your purpose. Yeah. Find your purpose, value your time and have massive activity. That's where can they get in touch with you? Um they can get in touch with me. My Facebook is Ariel Prior. A R I E L P R Y O R. Instagram, the Ario Prior. T H E A R I E L P R Y O R. YouTube, same thing. The Ariel Prior. For sure. We'll make sure we put it on the screen. Yeah. And Tik Tok. The Rio Prior. Make sure it's the right Tik Tok. It's fake Tik Toks. It's fake Facebooks. They making all type of I'm not texting y'all saying all that crazy stuff they saying. And I'm not You ain't You ain't That ain't you asking for the Bitcoin. Yeah. Somebody talking about that. Ain't you asking for the crypto? That's not me ask for crypto. Not me extra Bitcoin and no, we're not getting married tomorrow. I don't know who you were texting, but it wasn't me. I have No, that's that's a fact. It wasn't her, homie. That was not me. Somebody talking about what? Dude, we're not a relationship. I went live. He talking about He talking about you acting funny on here. I'm going to text you. Text me back. I don't know who you texting last night. You got catfish. He talking about you on here acting brand new. I'm like, I don't know you. He don't know me. Damn. That's wow. I need I wish I could knew more about that story, man. Listen, I gotta For sure, man. I gota give my update. I get update. That's what's up. Well, thank you so much, man. Y'all make sure y'all type in where and I holl at y'all. Peace.