Yo, what up? What up? Welcome to another episode of Victory Talk. Now, y'all know I'm always here trying to show y'all different ways to get to the money, right? So, I had to bring in the home girl from Chicago, fellow Chicago native, Whitney, the grant king queen. I apologize. Right. And you focus on helping people get grants from the government. Basically, free money. Yes. Tell me tell me more about that. Okay. So, hey you guys. My name is Whit. I own three storefronts on the same block and they call me the grant queen. All right. So, um, I help businesses obtain business funding not only from the government, but you can get a government grant, a corporate grant, or a private grant. And the money do not have to be repaid. I have got people grants as little as um $500, as big as $1.2 million. So, it's so much funding out here, and I'm just here to educate the people about it. So, the government is just giving out money, man. What What how do I get some of this free government money? What I got to do with it? Um, so you can find it in just like really certain ways. So, I tell people just search the internet and play with the words. Like, let's just say you're small business owner and you have a ice cream company. I don't know. Um, so ice cream company business grants for black entrepreneurs or if you could put your location in there and I search on every outline. Um, I'm sorry, every platform like Yahoo, Google, Bing, Tik Tok. Um, but I did take the hard work out of it for entrepreneurs and I have created a grant list and I deliver those grants to you every two weeks. You a grant list. Tell me more about that. So it is a list of 80 plus business grants and it gets updated bi-weekly and you could be in any field in any state and you can be eligible for these grants. So I do the hard work for you. So that's just one of my little ticket products. All right. So what's it like? Let's say let's say I find a grant I like. Okay. All right. Now, give me an example of one when one of the grant you think I I'd qualify for the Bank of America grant. How much? 20 $20,000. Bank of America. All right. What's What's the criteria for that? Okay. So, you will have to have a business mission statement. You will have to have a budget. Um, one thing I really want people to know about grants is they don't care about your credit. They don't care if you're a felon. People be thinking like, oh, they care about all that stuff. No, they care about you having um impact and a persuasive story. So working with me, I can create that persuasive story and that impact for you to get approved for that grant. What what's it when you say pers persuasive story? Tell me more about that. So grants grant tours really want to see that you're going to impact and you're going to do something with the money to help other people, not just yourself. So for example, my business mission statement that I've been using since 2016 have got over $2 million in business grants for um I have a blackowned beauty supply. It's in a predominately white neighborhood, but we only sell black owned products in our beauty supply because it was a need for it in the area. Um, so when I started my beauty supply before that store, I had a beauty salon and I don't know, Caucasian areas did not have alcohol stores. They did not have beauty supplies. So all of my workers was running blocks and blocks down. I'm like, we need a beauty supply in this area, you know? So I created that and yeah, that was my persuasive story and it changed lives. Oh, so it's basically like there was a need that would help out more people just for you and they didn't ask for the money back. So this is not a loan. No, it's not a loan. They didn't even did they check to see if you did what you said you were going to do with it. Some grants will ask you for a receipt saying if you don't do the right thing, you will have to return the money. Don't worry about it. I tell entrepreneurs all the time like they think that it's hard to get money. It's not hard to get money. It's the financial literacy after I get you the funding for you to make sure you're doing the right things with this money to make sure you're flipping it, make sure you're investing it, make sure you're making this money work hard for itself and you're not working hard for the money. How long did it take? That was your first grant. That's how you got into it. Um, yes. So, I got my first grant in 2016. 2016. Yes. What made you go that route instead of like bootstrapping or getting a loan or something like that? Um, correction, 2018 was my first grant. But um I was in college and I wasn't supposed to be here. I was supposed to be a nurse and I was in college. I was I went to NIU. Okay. Yes. And I graduated and I um when I was celebrating, I broke my neck in a car accident. Now I already had like a side hustle with doing eyelash extensions. So when I broke my neck, my business went to zero. I didn't understand saving. I didn't understand anything about a rainy day fund. So I needed some money. So the doctor told me like either you want an emergency surgery or you have to wear like a halo on your head. It was a lot. My business went to zero and I had to make something shake. So, I always kind of been a good writer. So, I began writing business grants. And I didn't think I had a skill when I got my first one. I didn't think I had a skill when I got my second one. How much was your first one for? My first one was the $10,000. $10,000. All right, cool. Um, my second one, I didn't think I had a skill. My third one, I did it. I really blew up when I started doing it for my friends and they started calling me like, "Hey, I got approved." I'm like, "What?" I wasn't even charging them. It was like a hobby. Right. So, I told my story on TikTok one day and it's been history ever since. So, how So, now you help other people get their rent. Absolutely. What's What's that process like? Um, so just really me vetting out the people. I've noticed on a lot of my old marketing, a lot of people think it's just free money and it's easy. They correlate free with easy and it's not. You really have to be legalized. You really have to have your budget in order, letters of support. So, a lot of documentation. Um, but you already have to have a business or somebody for trying to start a business. Startup businesses can have it as well too. But even if you're a startup, you have to have an in detail uh business plan. And a lot of people, you got to have your LLC, EIN, all that. B, you got to have at least the basics done, right? No. Every business grant do not recommend you to be legalized like that. I have a business grant I give out every single month to multiple business owners called the boss up and breakthrough grant. And I purposely made it easy just because through my process, I've been seeing um just a lot of qualified business owners, but they really don't know how to like word what they're trying to say. But they have grant ideas that's original. So I made my grant very easy. And there's a lot of grants out there like mine as well, too. Okay. All right. All right. So you got into this after you broke your neck. Were you wearing one of those? Uh you was wearing the the cast. It's called a halo. The my fault. The halo. No, I the doctor told me either I have to wear a halo or I have to go on emergency surgery. I said take me into the surgery. Oh, you went and did the surgery. Yes. And then when you was recovering, you you decided to get into the grants thing. Yep. cuz I was on bed rest for 6 months. They fused my C2 bone to my C3 bone and I was on bed rest and I'm like I need some money. I got to make a shape. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's up. So, how many people have you helped get grants so far? I don't know the number. That's a good thing though cuz it's too many to actually have a number. But we have funded over $2 million. Um and I do small grants, big grants, corporate, federal, um private. Any grants you see I can get you really? So, okay. So the government has grants you because I I initially I was talking I was thinking it was just government stuff but you telling me there's different kind of grants. Yeah. So it could be the government can give you a grant. This is just like let's say they give a grant for co um it could be government. Let's say Atlanta gives a grant because you got they had a hurricane or something. Um or private my grant is a private grant. The boss up and breakthrough coach Kate um is a private grant. The legacy grant. So it's like small business owners who want to give back. Um, and I recommend people going after the the private grants first because our grants um, we don't have a lot of uh, applicants so you have a better chance of winning. Uh, oh, so you got to compete for these grants. Yes. So it's an application process and I'm a grant judge and I'm a grant tour. So I think that's why I'm like the best teacher because I understand how it feels to be behind that computer looking at so many applications and I'm like this not right, that's not right. So I help people from first stand. What is it? What what are you looking for? Oh, I am looking for the person who is not lazy to use chat GBT. I am looking for you to be resilient. I'm looking for you to be transparent. I want to see that you're entrepreneur. You have this great idea, but life keep on knocking you down, but you choose to keep on getting up. I want to see you're a real person and chat GBT cannot make you a real person. It doesn't have emotion. Not yet. Not yet. Not yet. Give me um give me example of somebody who you gave a grand to because I like this kind of story. Okay. So, I'm trying to figure out the best one. Okay. Somebody I gave a business grade to I'm going blank. I'm trying to get the best one. The best one. Yeah. No, take your time. Um, okay. I'm going to do Marcia mixture. So, I was sitting in my um one of my stores and this lady and her daughter walked in. I'm like, "Hi, how you doing? How may I help you?" So, they're like, "Hi, we applied for your business grant. We want to come see like if our application is still in. Like, I want to introduce myself in person." So, mind you, I'm like, "Okay, this is a little weird. Nobody has never did this before. So they got to telling me their story. It was very emotional. So I'm like I went over to the next store and asked my sister like, "Hey, I want to give this lady the business grant on hand. Like she's here. I want to give it to her." And I told my sister the story. She was like, "Do it." And I gave it to them right then and there. Their business name is Marcia Mixturous and they're doing amazing. Um so I just like real people who want to step out the box, who want to show their original. Like I want the person who like just give me a chance, you know? I'm not going to give up. Right. Right. How much was that grant for? It was from $500. $500. And what she do with it? Um they used it for inventory to keep their business going because if she didn't get that grant, they were going to close. Damn. Mhm. Like she must have been doing really bad, man. $500. Yeah. It was They were a skincare brand. Damn. And now And now they that that helped them turn it around. That's what's up. Yes. You got to be black to get your your uh Well, you're not. No, you you gave it to some white people. Um I don't know. But every person I It's okay. I'm just curious. See how it works. See a picture of you because occasionally don't have a picture that specific person, man. Unless Unless their name is like some weird like mine like Brandon. No. So names. I see it's a crazy name. But you know, sure. Huh? I'm totally I'm sure if I ever gave somebody that wasn't like a That's a good question. Yeah, you we'll assume you have. But you could definitely apply. It don't come with pictures. So I don't even mind. I'm just [\h__\h] with you. What? Who? You don't have to say names, but give me example. Somebody who you denied and and why. The biggest reason of why I deny people or like people who I deny. You just don't show effort on the application. At bare minimum doing ABC spell check or you don't answer the question. What do I ask you? What do you need inventory for? You tell me your business. Yeah. Oh yeah. like you're just not putting that effort in. Um, as well as Can I be honest? Yeah. Yeah. Please, please. I just really You got to be very professional. You can't have all these names. That's really I don't know what's the word I'm trying to use, but it's just like Oh, like professional like as far as your name. Yeah, like a professional business name. A lot of business names get them kicked out. So, when you start a business, you want something like Chase, Bank of America, Walmart, Target, where people cannot judge you. You want to let them get actually to the application. So I think that we're in a day and age where everybody want to be entrepreneurs and that's fine but everybody is does not need to be in that position. What what's give me example of a name that you Kiki from 63rd loving her three kids. That was the name of a hey a yahoo.com. No I'm just playing that be like they email or I have seen a lot of business names with um folks LLC. and you had to say no to that like or I say I ain't going to put no no vis on the spot but it's really like you can't that's not professional. So I really do look like that and I let them know like and I get feedback on my grants. So I let them know like you need to change this. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Because we wasn't taught this. We wasn't taught. And I tell people all the time we have to unwire oursel from what we were taught. Be open to relearn. Right. Right. And how'd you how'd you learn experience? just really being in college and I just thought college was the route. I have $60,000 in college debt. I've never used my degree a day in my life. I'm madly successful under that [\h__\h] all the time, you know, and maybe I'm biased cuz I went to Howard and uh Oh, you went to Howard? Yeah. So, I was super Maybe I'm just hype about that, but I don't know. I feel like that [\h__\h] was super helpful for me. Yeah. I just It made me mature, but it didn't teach me nothing about credit. It didn't teach me about running a business. It didn't teach me nothing I needed to be financially literate. That's a problem when you're adult. Yeah. Yeah. You see, it's Wow, man. They taught that [\h__\h] at Howard, did they? At least they taught all that [\h__\h] They teach me that at the business school at least, they made us wear they would make us wear suits and [\h__\h] They would we had like even little [\h__\h] like with um what fork you should use and like, you know, yeah, etiquette. Like they taught us all like how you count. But yeah, I I really just want more people to know like it's genuine mentors out here and Yeah. No, that's because not everybody could go to Howard. Yeah, I'm [\h__\h] with you. I could have went to Howard. No, no, but that's that's what's up, man. And so you've been How long have you been helping other people get these grants since 2019? Okay. Oh, so right after you got your first one, you started helping some of your friends and then people started coming to you kind of like word of mouth. Yes. Uh that's what's up. So now we have a full grant writing agency where we bring people on. We understand, okay, what are you what's your what is your business? What is your mission statement? We go look for the grants for you. We do the applications for you. We even help on the follow-up end. Let's say you get approved for a grant. We'll help you with your receipts and all of that. Um I just got a message what, two days ago, we were approved the $15,000 grant. A week got week before that. Um I'm in the running of a $2 million grant from one of my clients. Like they're just rolling in and I'm so excited. That's what's the what's the biggest grant you got for you or someone else? 1.2 million. 1.2 million. What was that for? Um, it was a construction grant. Oh, yeah. It was intense. But yeah, it was a big So, okay. Was that private or government? Um, that was government. Government. When you think about grants, so private is going to be more like your lowest ones. Corporate is going to be next about 25 to 50,000. And government goes into the million-dollar grants. Real. So, the government's just out here giving out money like Yeah. But I don't when you say it like that, I don't want people to think it's so easy cuz those documentation you will think it's a thesis. Like you got to insert so much stuff. Yeah. But it's worth it. And I tell people don't give up. All right. All right. How How Okay. How often does somebody How many times does somebody have to apply typically before they get their first um before they get their first successful grant? It's no number to tell them. I would say off the top of my head, if you're consistent and you're applying about 10 grants a month, within 3 months, you should have a grant. Oh, 10 grants a month within 30. Yeah, 30 grants with good qualified grant answers. I don't want to pass that. And a big part of your grant answers is your business mission statement. I could drop a gem on what should be in your business mission statement. Okay. So, your business mission statement should include get a pen and piece of paper, right? Solve a problem, unique solution, community impact, global reach, and number five is optional, which is results. If you've been in business, you can tell some of your results, your results. So, I have ran across a lot of grant applications that they ask for that exact format and I'll be like, I told y'all you you already got it. Uh, that's what's up. How can And you said there's ways that people can get in touch with you, right? They can they're supposed to text boss to the to the number on the screen, right? Yes. So, I am looking for more business owners to um fund through business grants for my business grants and other people business grants. You could text the word boss on the screen right here. And I'm having some free webinars, free classes for them to come in and for me to educate people about this. That's what's up. Oh, so you you're gonna be doing some free teaching. Yes. Oh, that's what's up. That's what's up. That's what's up. All right. You see my fault, man. I ain't mean to cut it or cut. How How long we You We good? All right. You just give me a heads up cuz I don't want to be looking at my watch and [\h__\h] No, you're totally good right now. Yeah, it's 150. You still got You still got time. Okay, cool. All right. They uh you can honestly run it uh to give it give yourself enough time. Uh I would say run it to about six it 6:15 and that way uh we can get her in for about 45 minutes. All right. I Okay. Okay. Damn, I lost my train of thought. The mess of us. All right. All right. So, if they text balls to the screen, then what happens? um then you're going to be put on a wait list or you're going to get my most recent offer to learn about business grants while I also talk about credit and content as well too because business grants just didn't make me successful. That just got me the money. Um but I also leverage credit. I think that's important and knowing the power of marketing and the power of content as well too. I'm a sensation on Tik Tok and like Instagram and we have some millionaires because of Tik Tok in this generation. Like yeah know that's a fact. It's amazing. That's a fact. So you you also help people with their credit and their personal branding as well. Yes. Tell me more about that. Okay. So with credit, we can help you with credit repair or trade lines. The biggest thing and biggest difference I think my credit repair agency knew, we just don't fix your credit. Okay. We help you rebuild it and we teach you financial literacy because it really it's really irritating when I ask somebody like, "How did you mess up your credit?" And they'd be like, "I was 18 years old. Nobody taught me. Like I'm not going to do it anymore. I'm 30 now." But I asked him, man, when did you learn financial literacy cuz age just doesn't comes with wisdom? You have to learn how to use these credit cards like millionaires how to not mess up your credit. So I teach those things to make sure they never have to come to me again for credit repair. That's a fact. You know what, man? I I remember I was scared to get credit when I was younger. I you know, I heard uh Baby from Cash Money. He he was on MTV Cribs like a long time ago and he said he's like, "Hey, who they all these cars and houses they pay for cash, you know, no." I was like, "Oh, all right. That sounds like a good financial advice." Right. Then I said, "I just never had no credit cards, nothing up until like 2020. I got my first credit card." Really? And no, no, I missed out. No, now my my score is like 800, right? you know, I got in I got [\h__\h] platinum cargo card, all this [\h__\h] right? I didn't I I just I had just heard of the bad stuff and I I was so upset with myself once I learned like, you know, I got like I got like 3 million AMX points now. Yeah. Like I I don't never I don't never pay for flights, you know, and and I fly like I think like 100 flights a year. What's your favorite Amex card? It's your podcast. No, it's all good. Uh uh I like the platinum and I I like the gold because the gold I can get some um higher points for ads and stuff at least but it's only for the first 100k, right? But then but still it's still you know I take it right and uh yeah golden the gold and the platinum I got them both get in the centurion lounge and [\h__\h] and it it gets me in the Delta lounges too. I gota have both of those as well too. But it's a certain thing called good debt and bad debt. And that's what I teach. And I use my good debt to literally get me new places. I love keeping my own money liquid. And if you do it strategically, it's just like, okay, let me borrow this money for a second. I'm going to pay it back and I'mma double it by time I pay you back. Exactly. Like I I don't mind, you know, um spending money on stuff is going to make me money, right? You know, and I just felt like a [\h__\h] dumbass once I learned exactly like the power of that I can do with it, right? So that's cool. I'm glad you're teaching people that. And you say you teach people social media as well. Yes. Tell me more about that. Um, so I thought I knew social media. I had hired a manager and she began to tell me like Whitney, no, you're fake on social media. Like they want to see the transparent Whitney. They want to see the background because I only did like um flashy content, but this was a long time ago. She was like, "No, they want to see how you have all these storefronts. They want to see the hard things you go through business." And she was like, "90% of the times you look like a bum. You're really working." and she like the other 10% century dressed up. So she like really showed that through social media. So she made me start a Tik Tok account and I went on there and I was sweeping the floor of my store. I looked like Cinderella. I don't know. I looked crazy. That video made a million views and made me $100,000 in a day. How to make how to make your $100,000? I did a voiceover. So I was dropping a lot of gems. So it didn't matter how I looked. The knowledge that was coming out my mouth intrigued millions to watch the video. And I don't even monetize my social medias, any of them, because my content makes so much money buy my products. Okay. People buy your products or get coaching because of it. Uh, yes. And I drop a lot of gems. So, make sure y'all follow me at Bossy Wit on all platforms. Bossy Wit. That's the Bossy Wit. Oh, my fault, man. Yo, I don't know why this [\h__\h] happened. Jim and I just started talking. I got Is that a iPad? Yes, it's a iPad. I got mad [\h__\h] Oh, hold on. That was uh That was my phone. That was I got two bones. The Android started [\h__\h] talking. I apologize. All right. Sorry. This should be better. All right. How do you teach other people how to grow their social? So, I have certain mentorships on certain tiers and I bring you in. I tell you, okay, you ready to work? because I'm a little militant when it comes to my boot camps. Um, and I help you. I audit your social media. I tell you how to go and record social media and I take you on a six week journey and I help you with your content to blow up. Yeah. Give them some tips if you can. What are some What are some of your social media tips? Like I know you can't you don't want to give it everything, but like just I got some tips. Be authentic. You need to show up. A lot of people just post one day and come back 3 weeks later. No, you want to treat social media like your baby. If you don't eat it, it'll die. Um, and if you're not posting content, your audience is watching somebody else. You I I like to tell people, drop all the gems on your content. Never deliver up front. Another thing is, um, a lot of people think you need a lot of expensive equipment. You really only need a tripod from Amazon, a small $10 mic, and some great lighting, and you will make the best content. Yeah. Just with your phone, right? Yes. My favorite content editing for dummies, and I'm not calling y'all no dummy. I'm calling myself a dumb because it's my favorite one. Um it's cap cut. So it just really helps you clip all it together. You could do voiceovers. Um and then the last thing I would say is talk to your audience like you're talking to your best friend. Nobody wants to be talk at. You need to talk to your audience. And I think that relatability and that authenticness makes people go so viral. Yeah. How do all three of these things work together? I I kind of see how credit works with grants, but how does the content work? Explain that to me. Usually everybody who probably 100% of people who want grants from me or who wants credit from me, they want it to grow their business cuz I only do business grants. I do personal credit and I do business credit as well too. But 100% of people have a business. That's how they found me. And if you have a business, we are in a day and age where social media is everything. People aren't going to Google anymore like, "How do you make spaghetti?" They're going on TikTok and it's some little 12-year-old kid on there whipping up some spaghetti and showing you how to do it who got three million views. So, social media, just like AI, is something that we can't negate that it's it right now. Yeah. It helps you grow your business for sure. I I saw I went on your Instagram and I saw that you had uh you had a little daughter. Yes. Right. How old is she? Oh, she's four. Sharing. Okay. Now, how you feel about kids with social media? You got you one of those moms that got your kid to social media. You training her or what? How you doing it? Um I don't mind putting my daughter on social media, but I would let everybody know like social media is unhinged and they will say anything about a kid and I'm like it's just a baby and it's a little awkward when we're outside and people come up to her and I don't I really don't feel too good about that. Come up to her and like what? Like so we were in the grocery store and the lady walked up to her like, "Oh, I want to go to that hotel your mommy took you to." And but I it went super viral. I took her to the lane cam as like a mommy and me date and it went super super viral. So when she walked up to her and said that I'm I'm like, "Oh, thank you." But like you can't walk up on a kid, you know, and the comments sometimes they do get me. But I be arguing with them, too. Yeah. Sometimes you got to just stand above that. But I do want want my daughter on social media. Um I just feel she's a big part of my life, so why not? How old do you think it'll be when you let her start her own? Like some kids are already on. Some kids I you know some kids got bigger YouTubes. You know some kids are millionaires on YouTube. I think about like 13 or 14. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I have another daughter who's 10 years old and she's trying to get into it but I don't really think it's the best for her because she don't understand what to watch, what not to watch. And if things like Tik Tok can't be so censored. So I really want to wait till like 13 and 14. They get that maturity in. That's a fact. I let my I got my son like you the YouTube Kids app. Oh yeah. Yeah. Like he ain't even he he wants to watch my YouTube but he ain't allowed. How old is he? Uh, he's seven. Oh, he's seven. Okay. So, you're right at that brain, right? He ain't allowed to watch my YouTube yet. But he know about it cuz when people stop us, like people stop and they want to take pictures with me and [\h__\h] you know? And uh at first that was like super weird for him when he first realized it, but like now I guess it's I'm like, "Daddy, you're a celebrity." Yeah. Kids love social media and they do the little cute dance. So, yeah. All right. All right. All right. All right. So, let me ask you a question. Some of these people I I've heard of people who like do [\h__\h] like buy buy stuff in their kids' name to help build their credit when they're young or get car. Is that something you recommend? Is that is that a old wives or is that some [\h__\h] fake [\h__\h] or what? It's ghetto. Yeah, it's ghetto, right? I thought I thought people were doing it to build their credits, you know, or not. No, most most people do it just because they want to leverage their kid credit cuz they messed up your own credit. And I just think that's the one most selfish thing you could do to your kid is mess up their credit. So, no, I do not believe in touching their credit for anything. I mean, if you want to build and add them on a credit card and responsibly build it. Yeah. But most maybe like get them a like a make them like a authorized user on one of your accounts or something, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But I don't see too many people doing that anymore, like building their kids credit for them. I haven't ran into somebody doing that in a minute. Is that bad? I don't think it's bad. I tried to do it with my daughter and they told me that I couldn't do it, I think, till she got 13 or 14. So maybe I just haven't tapped into the market yet, but if it's the right way to do it, I say do it. My credit score was zero and it like when I looked at it said zero. I had never seen that [\h__\h] before and I had to become an authorized user on a friend's this chick I knew. She she had like a credit card for me loan and that's how I got my [\h__\h] up. Really? And what most people don't understand or know is like having no credit is like having bad credit. And when you get credit repair, they're just swiping your credit. And now if they swipe it, a lot of people just take everything off their credit, which is bad. You really want to, Example, my student loans. I wanted to swipe them all off, but it was just debt. I didn't have any negative payments, but this is my good payment history. Oh, yeah. You want to have that. Yeah. Yeah. So, a lot of people are just swiping it, but they're not understanding now. You have no credit. You're at zero. You have to rebuild it. Like, you're not doing credit repair the right way. Man, I was running my whole business off debit cards and we was making like multiple seven figures and I was running that [\h__\h] off debit cards. Yeah, cuz I was baby told me not to have credit, man. Sorry about I really think leveraging credit and leveraging grants is so important. Credit you could get it quicker, but you got to pay it back. Grants is going to take a long time to get it, but you don't got to pay it back. So sometimes it's a good time. Yes. or you know if you got some times use grants but leverage both. Yeah. That's why I wanted to get you on here because the grants is like I know you don't like you don't like when I say free money but like free money but it's basically free money. You just got to work to get it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's the hardest part about giving a grant? I really think just the hardest part about the business being prepared and being structured. Um sometimes it can be tedious because we do apply to a lot of applications. I do not want to negate that fact. Um, and some a lot of people be like, "I never got picked." And they just give up and that's why you're not getting picked. So, I say tell people, you have to stand out. Um, follow up with a grant. Have letters of support. Um, for one of my grants, I had my ottoman be a letter of support because like I told you guys, I had a black own beauty supply in a predominantly white area. I went to my Ottoman. I let her know like, hey, this area is being diverse. You know, we made the news and front p pages of the paper from being vandalized by racism. So I'm like, you can't negate the fact that we're coming in being African-American in this area is not predominately white anymore and we need to feel supported. So she wrote me a amazing letter, a letter of support that got me a fat check. That's what's up, man. That's what's up. All right. So guys, make sure y'all text boss to the number on the screen, right? You don't want to [\h__\h] this up, man. Tap in with her, man, so you can like learn more about this [\h__\h] man. Yes. Yeah. Is there anything else you want to say to people so they understand? Um, I just want everyone to know that you're able to reinvent yourself as many times as you want. It's a lot of genuine mentors out here like myself ready to help you unlearn and unwire things that you already learned and just show you a way where you can be financially free. Um, I don't want to tell you that it's not going to be hard work. It's going to be hard work. But I'm going to be your 50% partner. If you're ready to hold my hand, text the word boss to this number and let's get going. Time is waiting on no one. Yo, thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Wait.