Are you not entertained? Is this not why you are here? Yo, what up? What up? This is your man Big Brandon Carter. A question I get all the time, how do you stay committed to a workout plan or a diet? Uh how do you you need commitment to accomplish the goal? How do you get that commitment, that determination to stay motivated, stick to the path, stay the course? All right. Freud said, see Freud, you know, father of mo modern psychology, he wasn't just a co-ed up pervert. He had some good ideas. One of them was that they called the pleasure principle or some people know the pleasure praying principle, right? People are always either move every decision you make, everything you do is either to uh to move towards pleasure or away from pain, right? That's why anyone does everything, you know. Uh so if you're not motivated to work out, you either find more pleasure in not working out or or more or too much pain in working out. What you need to do is find a way to associate working out with pleasure and associate not working out with pain. And that that's it's something we do in uh you do if you and you studied NLP neural linguistic programming how it works is you have to it even help if you write it down make a list of all the benefits of working out you know you're going to you're going to be healthier happier uh it raises endorphins it increases cognitive function you sleep better you look better you get uh more ass you get uh you know all the benefits And then think about how bad your life will be if you don't start working out and following a diet. You know, uh you're going to keep getting fatter and fatter. All right? You're going to your health will continue to deteriorate. It's not it's going to be even harder to find a mate or maybe your your mate will become unattracted to you or maybe she's not attracted to you now. You know, you got to just listen and don't mitigate that. Like a lot of people be like, "Oh, I'm kind of fat. It's not so bad, but it's not so bad, you know?" Like, "Yo, shut the [\h__\h] up. Make it difficult. Make it [\h__\h] bad." Like, "I'm fat as hell. This sucks. I hate it. It's the worst. And it's only going to get worse if I don't keep going. If I don't try. Pain is a powerful tool. You use it like Don't try to make yourself feel better. Don't accept yourself. Don't love yourself the way you are. shoot for an ideal and go after it with with uh with seriousness like a homeless person sitting in the alley say it's not so bad I love myself though you know I don't need material things now shut the [\h__\h] up homeless man you got issues you're a drug addict getting a wino and make it bad man you you're ostracized from from all the society make it bad like increase the negative and then think about how much better it would be if you went after the things that accomplished your goal and make it and made your life better. Associate pain with not doing. You can do this with anything in your life. You know, just associate a lot of pain with where you're at. You know, associate a lot of pleasure with doing what you have to do to get to where you want to be. And I've done it so long that it's become okay. So, here's the thing that it becomes a compul you'll become compulsive if you do it right. Right. Like I I can't not work hard on my goals. Like it's not I'm at the point where initially it took it doesn't even take discipline anymore. I've associated so much pain with not working hard and so much pleasure with accomplishing what I need to accomplish. Uh it's it's kind of like uh I can't not do it now. It's uh it's a it's worse thing to be compulsive about. Could be compulsive about drugs or something of that nature. So anyway, yeah, you might want to uh read uh Awake from the Giant Within. Uh Tony Robbins talks about it a lot. Do you go to the source, go to Freud, read some of his work or any any psych any psych just basic psychology [\h__\h] So anyway, hope that helps. Check out the link somewhere.