If you are an online trainer or you want to be an online trainer, I'm going to show you how to make money with the best DM script on the internet. I'm going to give it to you 100% for free. No gatekeeping. I'm well suited to show you how to do this cuz I made several million dollars as an online trainer and now I teach other people how to grow their online fitness businesses, too. I've taught over 15,000 people how to grow their online fitness businesses and I'm about to give you a bunch of game right now. Let's talk about how this works real quick. The structure we're not doing cold outreach mother knowing content and then from the content then we move to people who engage with the content. We DM them and then we don't sell in a DM we bring what connections in the DM and then from there sell them on Zoom. Now when I say engagement this is going to be anyone who comments, likes or even people who follow you. All of these people need to get a DM from you. Here's how you can stand out amongst like the bigger creators. If you're somebody who's just starting off, you don't have a big following. Sometimes people complain because they'll post some content, they'll be like, "Oh man, I only got 100 likes." That's 100 people you need to DM. That's a lot of leads. And this is how you stand out against the bigger creators, right? Because you go like one of Jeff Nipper's post, he ain't going to send you a DM, right? He won't even know what happened. you as a smaller creator, when you DM somebody, they'll be like they might they might give a [\h__\h] especially if you do what I'm about to show you now. So, it needs to start with a video, right? So, say somebody just liked your video, then you hit them up. You say, "Yo, what's going on, Demetrius? Saw you like that video I posted on losing fat." Let me ask you a question, man. Do you have some fat loss goals you're trying to accomplish, or you just enjoying the content? I got that opener from Dan Martell, the the big homie. That's how you open it. The reason we want to see the video, cuz it's more what? Personal. Think about if a girl was like sliding in your DM. If she slid in with a with a text, cool. But if she slid in with a video, you going you're going to respond. Some of you guys are thinking right now, man, what if I just use the same video over and over again? How about you stop being a lazy ass [\h__\h] Here's the thing. By the time you go into your photos and upload the video is the same amount of time it takes you to say, "Yo, Jaquan, what's going on, man?" That's the same amount of time. And what if you're uploading stories throughout the day? You wearing the tank top and all your stories, but you got a video on, man, where you wearing sleeves and [\h__\h] The [\h__\h] gonna be like, "You ain't real." Now you done squandered the opportunity to make a real connection, right? So just send it a real [\h__\h] video each time, man. Stop being lazy. They're going to respond to that video and they're gonna say one or two things. I'm just checking out the content, man. You putting out dope [\h__\h] In which case, you'll be like, "Yo, thanks, man. Appreciate it." A good portion of them are going to say, "Yeah, man. I've been trying to lose that fat. I've been fat as hell for a long time, man. I I can't wait to stop being fat." This is an example, right? So pretend this was a video. This is example. This is not a real conversation cuz I ain't want to out nobody. This is um this is real ninja [\h__\h] Is it supposed to be a video? This is what you would say. Yo, thanks for the follow, Dcoin. Are you here because you're trying to accomplish some fitness goals or you just enjoying the content? Boom. Dcoan says, "Yeah, I'm definitely trying to get in shape." You know, boom. If they say something like that, you hit them with that's what's up, man. What fitness goals are you trying to accomplish right now? They they'll tell you what their goals are. Now, if they already tell you, you don't have to ask that question, right? The Quan says, "Yo, I'm trying to build muscle and get ripped for the hen, you know, you hit them up. I mean, you want to be be something personal. So, I I added some stuff. Yeah, I feel you, bro. How long you been working on that, you know, Dcoin says, "Feels like my whole life." So, that's the next thing you want to ask them how long have they been working on it. That's part of the script. So, we need to know how long this has been an issue for. And then you hit him with the what do you think has been the main thing that's been been preventing you from accomplishing this goal? That's a good question. So, in this example, the Quan hit me backwards. If I'm honest, I've been slacking it on my diet and being inconsistent in the gym. Once you ask that question, what do you think has been the main thing stopping you from accomplish that goal? It's going to be a variation of inconsistency or not knowing what to do. It's going to be some version of those two things. And then what you want to do at this point, then you hit them with a testimonial from one of your clients, a screenshot. If you don't have any clients, then you put your testimonial in there like boom. And then you say something like this. Bro, you remind me of my of my client Demetrius. He had the same problem. He was kind of skinny, fat, wasn't really getting no hoes. Then when we started working together, he was able to get his diet on point and I helped him be really consistent in the gym. Now he's got so many girls that his biggest problem is keeping up with all of them. Laughing emoji. Here's where it gets important. Does this sound like it might be what you're looking for? So you don't have to say these words. Talk about you or your client who had a similar problem as him and how you helped yourself or that pro or that client get over it. It'll be true if you have testimonials or if you have your own testimonial. It will be true cuz all roadblocks when it comes to accomplishing fitness goals are some sort of combination of not knowing what to do or not being consistent enough to do it. Those are the only reasons is one of those two. And then you know Dcoin says, "Bro, that's crazy. That's exactly what I need." Of course is exactly what he needs. Because when I asked him what was been stopping him from accomplishing that goal, that's when he really gave me the key to the combination. I just inserted the combination. and he said, "Yeah, that's what I want." Right? Of course it is, cuz that's what he said. Now, here's this where we take it to Zoom. Let's see if I can help you, too. When's the best time for you to hop on Zoom and let's talk about it. Boom. And you get on Zoom and you run them through the real sales script. It's very important. Now, what do you say when you're on Zoom? Luckily, I got a full course that's free on YouTube. It's a 2-hour course where I go over this and every part of being an online trainer, and I'll break the whole thing down. Go watch that video right now, and I'll show you exactly how to do it.