So, there's something I haven't told you guys and I believe it's one of the reasons I've been able to make like a lot of money and have a lot of success in my life. And it's because I worked on becoming a better speaker. I know that may sound like a shock to a lot of you cuz some of you may be hearing this and be like, he's going to tell us about how to become a better speaker. He sounds like a slave. It used to be a lot worse. I'm telling you, I'm from the south side of Chicago. And if you ever heard a King Van interview, that's how I used to sound. He grew up walking distance from from my home and or it'd be a long walk in the short drive on the south side of Chicago. But anyway, I'm not the best speaker in the world, but I'm way better. I've made a lot of improvements and I believe my ability to articulate myself better is a big reason I've been able to build my social media. Like all I do on YouTube is talk. Build my social media on YouTube, Instagram, and build my business off the back of my social media as well as sales. Like I've done millions of dollars in one-on-one sales. Trust me, one-on-one sales. I've made millions of dollars and you know that's all speaking. So I want to give you some tips on how you can become a better speaker. And again I'm not the greatest ortor on YouTube. There's a lot of people who speak a lot better than me a lot more well spoken and could probably articulate this better than me. But I'm going to tell you what worked for me. Uh because you might not want to listen to them nerds. You might want to hear it from a real icker. So I'mma show you what I did. And one of the first things I really worked on when I decided I wanted to improve my speaking ability was to cut down on the filler words. I'm not the best at it. Every once in a while I'll still say um or like or know what I'm talking about. You know what I'm saying? Every once in a while and but I catch myself and it's a lot less frequent than it used to be. And the reason I do that, the reason anyone does that is because a lot of times our brains move faster than our mouths. Pause. I think you're right. So what I kind of trained myself to do was instead of saying um like no talk about I take pauses. So if you listen to my speech, there's a lot of frequent pauses. And that's what I do instead of saying um like where there would be a uh there's silence and I got comfortable with that. And that takes practice. That just takes practice. Something you have to be conscious of. you won't be able to do it immediately. It's going to take, you know, practice like any other skill. But when you can start to do that, you'll sound a lot more articulate. Okay? Just take take a pause, take a little breath. It's all good. Get comfortable with the silence. See, a lot of times people want to feel the silence, right? And they're uncomfortable with it. But I'm I train myself to be comfortable with silence within my own speech or even in conversation. In fact, I I I kind of like it because I know it makes other people uncomfortable. So, I do this thing. I'm kind of a dick. I'll do this thing where I'll deliberately exaggerate silence just to throw someone off their game. Not even for any goal. I'm just a weirdo, you know? I just I got I got mental problems. don't do everything I do anyway. Get comfortable with the silence and then you'll say a lot less um you know whoever listens to a interview from a rapper and I don't mean like a conscious rapper like comment or something. I'm talking about I'm talking about like listen to an interview with Lil Baby. That [\h__\h] is difficult to understand. It's hard to listen to this [\h__\h] Like if I didn't know that he was able to put words together and I just heard him talk, I would have to assume he was on the spectrum or something just listening to his dialect. But he's a smart brother, right? He could put words together and but there's a lot of ums, likes, you know what I'm talking about. That's what we don't want to do. That's what we want don't want to do. So, it's get comfortable with the pauses. One of the ways you can do this as well is step two. You want to start recording yourself. Yeah. Pick a topic you want to talk about and start recording yourself speak about it. Right? And just go out off off of the head. Maybe you can write yourself a little outline, remember it in your brain and just go just start talking and start to notice how much many filler words you use. Initially, when I first did that, when I first started my YouTube page, like I don't know, 15 years ago, I had I was editing all my own videos. And the main reason I wanted to stop using so many filler words is so I wouldn't have to edit these [\h__\h] I would have to edit this [\h__\h] out of long. I was like, damn, I say this [\h__\h] a lot. So, it's really just to make my editing process a lot better. That was a big part of it. But once you do that, you'll be able to, you know, see what what you're doing well, what and what you can do better. And here's the thing, everybody sucks on camera initially. Everyone's weird. It takes a while for you to get comfortable because what I'm doing right now, this is not normal. A [\h__\h] talking to himself in basically a mirror, right? Because I'm using my iPhone talking to himself in the mirror like a goddamn psycho. But I know that a bunch of people are going to watch this, right? But everybody's weird at first and it takes a while to get comfortable because a lot of times we're nervous, you know? But if you can start doing this, then you'll get more comfortable first of all speaking and you'll be able to audit how many filler words you're using, you know, and this will really help if you start doing some public speaking because a lot of times I do speeches. I've gotten paid to do speeches or I I'll be on someone's podcast and you want to come off in a way where you don't seem like a a dummy, right? You don't need to seem brilliant. You don't need to be Neil Degrasse Tyson, but you want to you want to come off like you're comfortable and confident, but talking to a camera is just weird. Everybody's, including myself, I was weird at first initially. In fact, my very first YouTube videos, they're not on this page. And but I wouldn't talk. I would just I forgot about this. I would just like do the workouts and then put [\h__\h] on the screen. I was editing with Windows Movie Maker. I remember that. And then people finally heard me talk and it was fine. But you know, so just start filming yourself and then see what you can do. Watch the game footage. See where you can improve and where you can get better. Next thing you want to do is read more. The reason you want to read more to help you with your your speaking ability is because it's going to do two things. One, it's going to improve your vocabulary. Okay? you'll have more words to to pull from because you're digesting like more words and but more importantly than that is more ideas more ideas to pull from because it people who don't read. It's very unusual to meet someone who doesn't read, yet they are insightful. It's super rare. I can't think of anyone I've ever met like that off the top of my head. There's one guy who says he doesn't read. He says reading is a waste of time, but he's super insightful. He does a lot of speaking and I don't want to say his name cuz I'm friends with him. I think he's lying because I've heard him say things that were almost verbatim from books I've read. I think he might be lying. Or if he's not lying, it's a he's a very small sample size. Everyone else I know who's insightful, has good ideas, reads pretty prolifically. You know, like Elon Musk says he read. He's been he was used to read a lot since he was a kid. You know, he's a [\h__\h] almost a trillionaire. Um Bill Gates, he said he reads a lot when he's not on the islands. Um Warren Buffett, he reads a lot. Ray Dalio, they read a lot and they and they listen, I don't know anybody who reads who has a lot of good ideas and is very insightful when I talk to them. Everybody I know who's insightful, they read a lot because they have a lot of different ideas to pull from. Because even if you take out the ums and you move out the filler words, that just makes you not bad. That doesn't make you good at speaking. That just means, okay, we can listen to this person. His he's palatable. We can we can listen to him without having to turn it off. But you still have to say something important, right? It's more I should have started with this because this is more important than the ums, a filler words is actually having insight. And a lot of that is going to come from reading and also life experience as well because we're not just regurgitating things we learn in books, right? What you know people say, man, if you read a lot cuz you know I got I got a huge library. This is not even my my whole library. That's just what we put on display to look good. Even though I've read those books, but I've read more than that. I got like twice as many books as that in storage. And that's not even counting what's on my Kindle, right? And people always ask me, "How do you retain everything?" Oh man, you [\h__\h] don't read at all. Every time someone says that, I know that they never read because it's like going to a movie. Think about when you go to a movie, you don't retain everything that was said in the movie. You can't rewrite the script word for word, but you know what happened. You got the gist of it. You get it. you understand the main concepts and the main ideas, right? That's what it's like reading books, right? You don't have to memorize that [\h__\h] word for word, bar for bar, right? But you want to be able to get the insights and the concepts and then you don't just regurgitate them when you talk. What happens is these ideas you you're able to start making connections and you take those connections that you're making mixed with your own life experience and that's where the insight comes from right and a lot of the stuff that you'll read if you know if you're reading the kind of books I'm reading non-fiction then you you can start implementing these these these ideas and see how they work in the real world now you have examples that you can give you know and that's where insight comes from But if you're not reading, then you're only gonna have to go off experience. Now, experience is the best teacher, but it doesn't have to be your experience. You get what I'm saying? Experience is the best teacher, but it doesn't have to be your experience. You can get other people's experience from the books they've read, you know, experts in any field. So, you want to become a prolific reader. I recommend you read at least an hour a day, you know. And sometimes people say, "Yo, is Chad GBT good enough?" We don't have enough data on people becoming wildly successful or learning a lot or becoming insightful. when I'm talking about just from LLMs, you know, you're trying to invent something. Read the book, man. Stop being lazy. If you're going to read for an hour a day, read for an hour a day. You know, I'm telling you, it'll change things. There's things you don't know that it will change in your brain, the way you think. um and and ideas that you'll be able to to actually come up with because ideas kind of have babies. Like one idea spawns other ideas, you know, and then the more you have together, they start these ideas start mating with each other and they start having babies. All right? And here's the next thing you want to practice. So, when you're recording yourself, one thing you need to focus on when speaking, and I I do this when I'm speaking publicly, I do this when I'm in a sales on a sales call, whether it's one to many or one to one or even in a leadership role when I when I have to talk to my team is and especially when you're making content is you want to focus on dynamics. This is important dynamics. What I mean by that is you do not want to talk like this and be monotone. Monotone means one tone, right? Mono one. Some people especially since you know Red Pill came out you see these guys they they start making content and everybody's just yelling. Everybody's yelling trying to be a badass. That's still monotone, right? Because they're only just yelling. They're they're only they only got their foot on the gas the whole time. That's still one tone. It's just high energy and they're yelling, but there's no dynamics. So, you can yell for a minute, but you have to also be able to talk softly, right? Or even change your tonality or even Okay, here's the thing. Here's the thing with dynamics. When it comes to speech, there's volume, that's one lever. Intensity, speed, cadence, right? Those are the main levers we want to focus on. Volume. So, I can talk loud for a minute or or if I really want you to listen, I might talk softly. You get what I'm saying? And and it's dynamic. You want to isolate between them so people pay attention. Cuz if you're monotone, even if you're just screaming, trying to be alpha, it's still mono. You get what I'm saying? So, you want to be able to change the intensity and the volume when appropriate. Okay? You have volume, intensity, and also speed. So sometimes you can start talking fast if you need to, but then then you can slow it down a little bit. And what happens is you catch people's attention, right? So sometimes the pauses when I told you to pause earlier that that's also your cadence, right? It draws people in. It's it's what happens between the notes, right? I think Miles Davis said, "It's not just about the notes you play. It's about the notes you don't play. That space you leave between the notes. Sometimes a pause or slowing down, these are things that it makes your speech more dynamic. I might start exaggerating the dynamics of my speech right now just so you can understand what I'm saying, what I mean when I say, "Man, you need to be dynamic, right?" And and even the tonality. Even the tonality because cuz some because you can have you can have like a inquisitive tonality. You can have an aggressive tonality. You can have a aggressive tonality without even being loud. And you can be loud without being aggressive. Right? Like there's different there's so many different combinations of tonality, volume, and cadence. And you want to be able to oscillate through them on command. See, most people do this unconsciously. Like when you're having a conversation with your friends, if you listen to a conversation that maybe you have with with with a friends or loved ones or a bunch of people, when you listen to that conversation, if if you just listen, you'll start noticing the dynamics in people's speech. You know that how the tonalities naturally change. Nobody's monotone, right? But for whatever reason, sometimes people get on camera or on stage and when they need to speak or even on sales calls when they knew and they'll be monotone. It's [\h__\h] weird. It's normal to do that in those circumstances because that's what everybody does when they started. But your audience would look at you like this guy's [\h__\h] weird because people don't talk like that. Now, when you're doing a public a public speaking engagement of any kind, then you want to turn up the dynamics. Turn the dynamics up. What I used to do is I was listening to like black creatures cuz I I grew up in the church, man. You know, Southside Chicago. And you ain't I don't know if y'all ever been to a black church, but if you've been to a black church, you know what I'm talking about. When the preacher gets up there and he starts teaching, you will see the dynamics. This [\h__\h] might start screaming. He might sing in the middle of his speech. And then and then then they'll slow it down. Start wiping. He'll slow it all down, you know, and they'll say, "Now the ushers are going to come around with some baskets, right?" You'll see the d It's a wonderful display of dynamics. black preachers. And initially I modeled my public speaking off of them, black creatures. And then I found a dude uh dude named Les Brown, motivational speaker. And I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] he's doing it." And I could see he's from Atlanta's, right? Or I think he's from Miami. He's from down south. He looked like he grew up in a black church and he sounded like he grew up in a black church. And I was like, "Oh man, he was the guy I modeled." Fun fact, I sat next I was I was flying to Atlanta and I was on a a flight and I sat right next to Les Brown. Man, he knew who I was. I was like, "Oh shit." I was like, "Man, I used I modeled my whole speaking after you." And then we talking. I was like, "Did you model your speaking off of like black preachers?" Cuz that's what he sound like. He said, "Yeah." He said he modeled his public speaking off of black preachers. I was like, "I knew it. I heard it." But if you ever want to hear like some expert level dynamics, black preachers, they and they keep attention. They keep attention because by contrast, I had some friends who were Catholic on the south side, right? And they went to this uh there's a big church on 53rd Street across the street from the Geodonos. Y'all know what I'm talking about. It's right over there by the GDO and uh High Park. You know what I'm saying? Southside. What up? And there's a Catholic church. And I I went there with them one time. I was like, "Oh my god, this is so boring." The the priest had no dynamics and I was so bored. That's how that's the opposite. When you hear a speech is boring, it's because the the speaker does not have dynamics. I'm telling you, turn up the dynamics. Start listening for it. Start listen for it. Dynamics, man. Because just not saying um and uh that just makes you not suck. That doesn't make you good. The things that make you good at public speaking are having good ideas, something to say, insight, which comes from reading, studying, and and and experience, right? The combination of those three. And then it's dynamics, you know? And it's not even just in your voice and your tonality. You can also, man, you can use your body. You see how I'm moving around, right? You can do it in your body, your facial expressions. And you might not be in a space like this where you can move around. You may not be doing speeches on your ocean front balcony. You know, that's okay, man. Wherever you at, you can still use your your face. Pause for for for dynamics and expressiveness. You know, expressions, dynamics. These are things that make you I'm just telling you man it will make you a lot of money if you can learn to speak right you because you can't it's going to be super difficult for you to build your social media presence if you're not speaking well you know now there's one more thing improving your vocabulary can really help some guys have just really strong vocabularies and and I envy them because they sound really smart. You know, when we hear someone uh with a vast vocabulary and you know, extensive vocabulary that they can reach into, you know, we all we all look at them and be like, "Oh man, this guy must be smart, right? It's almost like a Chico for people to think that you're intelligent, you know, and there's a it's a double-edged sword because people may think you're smarter, but if you speak at a lower grade level, you'll reach more people. You get what I'm saying? Um, for example, you know, Alex Hermoszi says that he he runs his his books when he writes his books, he runs it through this app called Hemingway, and he wants it to be a like a third grade level, right? Alex Heroszi graduated from Vanderbilt, right? You know what I'm saying? So, he makes it he deliberately dumbs it down to appeal to more people. So yeah, you'll seem smart, but you'll have actually have less appeal. You know what I'm saying? So there's times to break it out if you improve your vocabulary, but it's there's also times to dumb it down. This is very important. That's not most of y'all problem. There's a time to dumb it down and there's a time to actually improve it, right? You know, like for example, this is this is this book called Flip the Script by this dude named Owen Claf. He wrote another great book called Pitch Anything. And Owen says when you when you really want to show somebody that you're smart for whatever reason, you do what he calls a flash roll. And it's typically something you memorize and use big words. You say it you say it super fast so they're kind of like, "Oh [\h__\h] this guy knows what I'm talking about." Right? Like if if if I wanted to impress and it confuse you, you know, about let's say fat loss and I'll be like, okay, fat loss is a two-part process is lipolysis and oxidation. Lolysis is when the fat cells are broken down into fatty acids and oxidation is when your body utilizes those fatty acids for energy. Right? That would be an example of a flash, bro. I'm not trying to get you to learn anything. I'm trying to show you that I'm smarter than you. Right? So there's a there's a time for that, but it's super rare. Typically, you want to dumb it down. So, one thing I've pride myself on doing it with my YouTube channel is taking complex ideas and dumbing them down, making them a lot more digestible to the masses. Whether it's business content, fitness content, I deliberately simplify it so more people can grab it. You got to remember the average American's IQ is only about 100, right? That means that half of the population is to the left of that bell curve, you know? And here's the thing. They are over rep they he has over representation on social media. But I hear some guys speak and they have this really really vast vocabulary and and it's impressive. I don't know how persuasive it is. You get what I'm saying? I don't know how good it is for sales and I know it's not good for for marketing. All right. You want to dumb it down as much as possible, but you still want to come across like you know what you're talking about. So these are things you can do, man. It'll help make you a lot of money. And I know everybody's I've been talking about AI a lot and I've been talking about how you can utilize a AI, but we're human beings are always going to talk to each other. That's one that's one thing I will bet on. Human beings will always need to talk to each other. And the better you can get at that, the more doors will open for you, the more opportunities you have, the more sales you'll make, the more money you'll make, the more you can grow your following. You know, I wouldn't be here had I not worked on this skill set, right? This is how I can just sit here and talk to you guys for 27 minutes. Yeah, there are people who are more articulate than me, better ortors than me, right? I'm not the best in the world, nor am I claiming to be, but I'm good enough to make a bunch of money. And I think you can work on those things, too, right? One more thing before we get out of here. I'm doing a live training. I'm doing a live training on Sunday, March 1st, where I show you how to grow your online fitness business using AI. Right? You still need to talk, but I'm going show you how to use AI to grow your following. I'm show you how to use AI to actually get more sales, get more leads, and I'm going to show you how you can use AI to train your clients so they get great results. Right? Uh, click the link in description if you want to check that out. All right, let's go.