The first time I ever got arrested, it was a nerve-wracking experience to say the least. It wasn't my fault. Oh, okay. I'll take responsibility for it. It was It was some nonsense. Uh, my boy Brian asked me to help him sell these glasses. I forget what year it was. I want to say 2013 glasses that he was he wanted to sell. He bought a bunch of them. He wanted to sell them on New Year's Eve in Time Square. And he's like, "Yo, I think I I'm in over my head. I bought too many of these glasses. I got to sell them night. I need your help." I was like, "All right, no problem. One thing I can do is I can sell. I can slang. I slang these glasses." Which we out there selling these glasses on the streets in Time Square making a bunch of money. We didn't know you needed some sort of uh permission. You had to get like a a merchant something to sell stuff in the street in public and we got arrested and wasn't a big deal. Eventually the charges was dropped and I spent the night at central bookings. But initially it was like super nerve-wracking being arrested for the first time and I was really nervous about it. But it was fine. I spent a night of search on bookings. It was cool. No big deal. Ain't nothing right because of that experience. The next time I got arrested, it was for a fight in Austin on Sixth Street, Austin, Texas. And when I got arrested that time, I was chilling cuz I all right, I know how this is going to go. It was all good. I wasn't panicking. I was chilling. I was like, "Yeah, whatever. I I get it." Yeah. You know, I was a lot calmer about it. There's footage of of this arrest somewhere on online. It exists. And uh I say that to say this. I get a lot of people telling me, "Oh man, I'm just I want to do this thing, but I'm nervous or I lack confidence." And what you should know is that that's normal. Like you there's no reason for you to have confidence to when you're doing something you've never done before, bro. Like it you should be nervous about it or have some trepidation. You're doing something new. You're going out into the unknown. You should be You should it's okay to be nervous right you don't have any experience with that you get what I'm saying but once you do the thing and you get some confidence in it competency in it then you will be confident right what confidence comes from experience nobody does anything for the first time is super confident I mean maybe if it's like not a big deal I mean I'm talking about important [\h__\h] you know so like that first time I got arrested it it had me seasoned I was ready to get arrested again. I mean, I don't advise it. Fun fact, Austin has a great jail. If I if I if I'm rating jails in different cities, Austin is top five. Top five. Never been to prison. Never been convicted of a crime. Every time I've ever been arrested, charge was dropped. You know, miscarriages of justice. But because I had been arrested before, you know, I was like, "All right, I know how this goes." And I was a lot calmer. First time I had a lot of trepidation. I don't know what's about to happen. I'm I'm getting into fights. I I never been in a jail cell before. Never been locked. I've never been in handcuffs. But second time, I was like, "Oh man, I know how this works." And and that's how it is with everything. So, some of you guys are afraid to start a business or you're afraid to put yourself out there, start making content, start your social media journey. And it's normal for you to have trepidation. It's don't wait till you're confident. Don't not do it because you you you're nervous. You're supposed to be nervous, homie. This is how it goes. You know, this is not my first YouTube channel. I had another YouTube channel before this. It got shut down. I don't know why. To this day, I don't know why. I have some theories. I think it was some of the haters. You know, the haters group of It's like the Illuminati but evil. And the haters, you know, they the same people who killed Martin Luther King and Abraham Lincoln. The haters. Anyway, I think the haters took it down. Player haters, baller blockers. Anyway, on that channel, there were some videos of me working out and I wasn't saying anything. I put text on the screen. Those are all like my first videos. I just put text on the screen cuz I didn't want to talk. I was nervous to talk. And then I just started doing it and look at me now. Turn on the camera and just start yapping. Barely know what's going to come out of my mouth. Pause. But I I got I got confidence. you you make a few thousand videos, you're going to be confident. Competence comes from competence. Competence comes from experience. If you don't have experience, you don't have you shouldn't have you probably don't have competence. So, you shouldn't be confident. It's okay. Do it anyway. Do it anyway. See, you don't need more co You don't need more confidence. You don't need less fear. You need more courage. Because courage means you act in spite of fear, right? In fact, you need fear to have courage. Fear is a prerequisite for courage. Like this, I've made literally thousands of videos. So, I have zero fear right now. So, there's no courage involved, right? There's not as nothing for me to be courageous about. I do this [\h__\h] all the time. I'mma forget this video happened. Every once in a while somebody's like, "Hey man, a family me I saw your YouTube video." I'm like, "Oh, cool, man." I'm thinking in my head like, "Yo, which one, nigga?" Like [\h__\h] thousands of them. [\h__\h] I don't even remember all of them. I don't remember almost any of them. Anyway, this is not this doesn't take any confidence because I've done it so much time. But initially it did. I was nervous. I didn't even want to talk on camera because it's weird. Talking to a camera what I'm doing right now is so [\h__\h] strange. But you do it more, you get confidence, you know? You get you you build competence which gives you confidence and also if I had to do something where I didn't have like competency in it but I had to do it anyway or I wanted to do it anyway it would take what? Courage, right? You need fear to be courageous. So this is what I want you to do. Here's the game plan. When you fear something that you want to do, instead of being a [\h__\h] and not doing it or waiting until you're confident, because that's you're not just going to be confident, bro. Wait until you you have less fear. Instead, here's what you do. You look at that. You look at this and you reframe it in your brain. You say, "Ah, here's a chance for me to practice courage." Yeah. Because when you're scared is the only time you have the opportunity to be courageous. You There's no There's no courage without fear. You have to have fear to act courageously. If I'm doing something that I'm not scared of, it doesn't take courage. You can only be courageous when fear is present. And that's that reframe. Hopefully, it'll help you muster up the courage. It helps me cuz it still happens cuz you're always going to have this every time you want to. It never goes away. It's never like, "Oh man, I'm just going to be confident and then I'm just confident forever." No, no, no. And some things you will be confident about. And as you move outside of your comfort zone, you will find new things to be scared of, right? Literally, like if you're not in your comfort zone, you should be facing fear. You get what I'm saying? If you're not in your comfort zone, that means you are facing fear because you're doing things that you are uncomfortable with. And you face that fear until you acclimate to the to this this new stimuli, whatever it is. And then after facing it and it's probably it might take repeated exposure. You get what I'm saying? It's not just once. It might take repeated exposure. Hey, now you have what? You've expanded your comfort zone. You can stay there if you want, but if you want to grow now, you have to go further outside of your comfort zone. And it will be new [\h__\h] to be scared of or new opportunities to be more courageous. Because in theory, if you think about it, the more you step outside your comfort to say, "This is my comfort zone." The more I step outside of it, the more scared I should be, right? because I'm probably taking on bigger challenges whether it's expanding businesses, starting new businesses, you know, um, uh, go moving into new opportunities or chasing bigger goals, right? You should probably be more scared, right? The thing is it it they it kind of cancels each other out and and it cancels out because you've built the habit. You built the habit the first time you step out of your comfort zone. You built the habit of being courageous. Right? So there's bigger scarier things further outside your comfort zone. But every time you step take a little step out of your comfort zone. You build more courage, right? You build the habit of becoming more courageous. So yes, there are bigger scarier things. However, you are more equipped to handle them because you've been building up courage. I want you think of it like a video game. This may help you [\h__\h] Think of it like a video game. I don't know if video games are still like this. I haven't played a video game a long time. But back in my day when I was playing Super Nintendo, when when you beat a level, you might have got a new power or a new ability, right? And you're going to need that new power or ability when you get to the next level. And in the next level, there's bigger monsters. the boss at that level was tougher, more difficult uh to defeat, more challenging. However, luckily, you came equipped with more artillery, more firepower or powers or whatever it is you get in in this fictitious game we're we're making up. It's like that in life, right? So, let's say this is your comfort zone. You step out a little bit. Boom. Now, now you've you've acted courageous. So, now you've built the habit of of being courageous. Right? Then you acclimate to this C c comfort zone. You've expanded your comfort zone, but you also gain the power. You gain the power of courage at least a little bit, right? And you're going to need that if you plan on taking another step outside of your comfort zone, you know, where there's going to be bigger challenges scaring your [\h__\h] However, you brought the courage that you built at the last level and it never ends. So when a [\h__\h] tells me, "Man, I'm just nervous. I'm not scared. I'm scared, man. I just I don't know what to do. I'm scared." I'm like, "Yeah, nigga." We all feel that way. All of us who are trying to grow, right? All of us. Every one of us. Even the [\h__\h] tough ass alpha guys, if they're moving outside of their comfort zone, they feel it, too. The difference is they've practiced being courageous so much that they're better. they're they're more equipped to handle it. You get what I'm saying? And and and I think that's the reframe. It's helped me in my life and I I think it'll help you is just reframe it. Say, "Oh, this is opportunity for me to practice courage so I can become more courageous." And that gives me a little bit more all right, let's go in spite of fear. It doesn't erase the fear. It means you act in spite of it. You get what I'm saying? Cuz think about it. If you let what's the alternative? The alternative is to stay is is to let fear keep you at bay and keep you in your comfort zone. And now your ass is in a prison made of your own fears. You can't step out. You scared to step out. So you just got to live here. This is you. This is who you are. And that's cool if that's your decision. You know what I'm saying? But doesn't have to be that way. And you've done it before, right? Most of you have probably had sex with a woman at some point, right? Might have been a little nervous. Might have been nervous to talk to her, you know, but then you talked to her. Maybe you got rejected. Maybe you got Oh, let's talk about the rejection. Let's talk about failures. Cuz cuz sometimes you're scared of failure. Fear of failure. You may you're probably gonna fail sometimes. So, but you got to keep getting back up and that's gonna take more courage. And that failure is going to make you more resilient. Kind of like, you know, I got these calluses on my hands and on my fingertips, right? I got calluses on my fingertips from playing the guitar. Initially, it hurt, but now I can play guitar all day because I build calluses. The same thing with lifting weights. I got these calluses on my hands, so I don't need gloves, right? You know, it just is it's normal, but initially it hurt. It's like that with failure, right? Failure actually makes you stronger. You learn more and it makes you stronger, you know, and it it it hurts, but that hurt it callouses you and makes you more tough tougher and more resilient, right? So that's that's important, too. So like you don't you don't quit because you failed, right? Hey, the first time I I tried to talk to a girl, she didn't give me her number, you know? It was a long time ago, you know, and it happens, right? We've all been there, you know, and and I I didn't just quit. Like, oh man, I guess I guess this heterosexual relationships aren't for me, right? You know, I didn't do that, right? It's like that with everything. You you you get up and you try again and and you're going to fail sometimes, and that's okay because that makes you tougher as tool. You also got to reframe that. Oh, this failure is going to teach me a lot of lessons. It's going to make me more resilient and I can handle more. And you're going to need that as you move up. And everybody fails, right? What if you fail? Yeah, you you're probably going to fail sometimes. Everybody fails. One of my my one of my heroes is this dude named Ray Dalio, and he wrote it in his book, Principles, one of my favorite books. It opens with one of his biggest failures. This [\h__\h] was telling everybody the stock market was gonna crash. He had a bunch of investors money on the line. He was running a hedge fund. He thought he was that dope. And then he was going on TV saying for everybody and the stock market ripped up. He lost all his money and other people's money. He had to borrow money from his [\h__\h] father-in-law just to stay afloat. That's white privilege right there, man. That's white. That's white privilege right there, man. Ain't no way my girl's dead loaning me anything. Uh, [laughter] I'm joking, man. I'm joking. I know some conservative white dude is getting on, man. What if a white black why you guys said that? Chill out though. All right. Anyway, um just relax, nerd. Shut the [\h__\h] up. Anyway, he failed. He failed miserably. Went almost out of business. Like the whole [\h__\h] it was just epic failure and it was a public failure. Probably a bigger failure than any of us are are going to ever experience. But he didn't quit. He came back and he ended up building the largest hedge fund ever, Bridgewwater Capital. Right. And he said that failure is what really taught him a lot of lessons that he needed to build the largest hedge fund any uh ever. So just know man, it's not if you're going to fail. You are going to fail sometimes. You just got to keep getting back up and you just got to reframe it. Okay, this fair is going to make it me tougher. What can I learn from this? And it's going to hurt, man. Sometimes it's going to be painful. And you're going to think about quitting. I think about quitting all the time. Not even because I'm failing, just because it's [\h__\h] stressful. 30 employees, you know, their livelihoods depend on my performance. It's [\h__\h] stressful, man. But you, you know, you asked for this. You asked for this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? And and it's like that. And it's gonna it's always going to be like that, you know, because you can't avoid it unless you just don't want to grow, you know, and if you can do it with like stuff that's really difficult like starting a business or posting content or going after your goals, if you can do that now, especially when you're young, a lot of you guys are young, if you can like start building those habits now, there's going to be other [\h__\h] that's going to happen that it will make you tougher and you'll need that toughness for like when you start having kids, right? Everybody's nervous when they have their first kid. They don't know what to do. They shouldn't be confident about it. They should be nervous, right? But then when you you you go through it and it's like, all right, you figure it out, right? And then even me, man, like I'm learning stuff all the time, you know? And like we in my business or being a being a dad, it's all types of [\h__\h] that that it's new. It's always new. Like he's going he he's in third grade. It's like, "All right, that's that's new, man." And like he's got different challenges that he's dealing with and that like how do I help him navigate the interdamics of playground dominance hierarchies and you know, like all all types of [\h__\h] He's not even you know, he's a kid, right? But at some point I'm going have to teach them about girls and all this other stuff. And you think those of you guys who who are young and you don't have kids, you probably grew up thinking that your parents had it all figured out. But then as you get older, you realize, oh, they're [\h__\h] people, too. They make mistakes. They [\h__\h] up. You know, [laughter] they're [\h__\h] humans, too. You don't realize that till you're older, right? And I'm like, okay, how do I not make as many mistakes, you know, with quitting my son? It's like see it never ends. What else I want to say? Right. Even if you try to avoid the thing you're fearing, don't worry. Something else to be scared of is going to come. And you got to decide if you're going to be courageous or not. And yeah, what if you fail? Don't worry about it. You're going to fail at something whether you try or not, bro. That's part of the [\h__\h] you know, and it's going to happen. But it's going to make you just reframe it. This is going to make me tougher, smarter, more resilient. Facing this fear is gonna make me more resilient. It's going to give me courage to tackle other fears. What if I fail? If I fail, it's going to make me smarter, more resilient. I got to get back up and do it again. Even though it's painful to being able to deal with the pain, these are [\h__\h] you need. This is [\h__\h] you need as a man. This is [\h__\h] you need as a man. And yeah, that's just what was been on my mind today. Wanted to share that [\h__\h] with you. And listen, I know a lot of you guys want to start your business and you're scared of it. You know, one thing that helps you is getting the knowledge, right? If you get if you can get some knowledge before you going while you're on the journey, that helps you out a lot. And if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook. It's called the the the the a the AI action plan for online training. Show you how to build your online fitness business using AI. meaning using AI to help grow your following, learning how to use AI automations, learning how to to use AI agents and using uh AI tools to grow your following to to make more sales, get more money, and to train your clients so they get amazing results. Uh click the link in the description and uh it's free and I holl at them. bikes.