 s LGBT only has one thing better than Google Gemini. I'll tell you what that is a little later. But right now, Google Gemini has more functionality. For example, Gemini Deep Research. So I opened up Canva and I told Gemini, hey, I used a deep research and I said, research the positive benefits of the ketogenic diet, including things like fat loss, muscle growth, longevity, immune system, and potential cure or help with diseases. Boom. I put that was the prompt. Not even a really good prompt. It came up with all this data for me, right? Like a ton of research. It wrote me this detailed report. This is pages. And it has links to all the citations, like the studies that it used, right? That's what's important. It cites the studies. So a lot of times when you see me giving a fitness advice, you know, talking about some sort of topic and I cite research and I cite studies. In the past, I would have to like go find the studies and read them. Now I just have Google Gemini go find the studies for me. So boom, it's got all the studies in here and it backs up everything it says with studies. You can fact check it, which is important instead of just saying something. You know, if you just use regular LLM, that shouldn't be lying to you, right? But now I can fact check this shit right here. Boom. Then it turned it into an actual podcast. Okay. So when you hear the word keto, I think most people immediately picture, you know, bacon, butter, maybe some weight loss. Oh, absolutely. It's all about weight loss in the popular imagination. But as we're digging into this research, that is, it's honestly the least interesting part of the whole story. It really is. We're talking about a fundamental metabolic state. It's called nutritional ketosis. And it's really an evolutionary thing, right? A survival switch. Exactly. So basically like it turns the research into a podcast. It's like more interesting to listen to, right? All I had to do was at the click of a button. Then I had to turn it into a website for me. And now I got a whole interactive website. I can go to the overview what the ketogenic diet is, everything it does. Then it talks about body composition. So fat loss, muscle prevention, we grafted out one of the studies versus the standard low fat diet versus ketogenic diet. It gave like charts for me, right? Longevity, how ketones prevent oxidative stress, anti-inflammatory, oxidation, defense and disease. It goes type two diabetes, epilepsy, Alzheimer's, cancer pretension, right? And this is like really cool shit, right? So if you want to learn something, you could do deep research or you need to study something. Not only that, I can take this to notebook LM. Let's just, and here's notebook LM. So basically you can put in some text or you can, you can do deep research inside of notebook LM. So I researched another topic, you know, the recession of 20, and then it made an infographic for me explaining the whole thing. Or even in my last YouTube, the YouTube video I posted the other day, I went through the slide that notebook LM made for me after doing deep research on the topic. It made the presentation for me without me doing anything. I thought that was pretty dope, but that's not it. You could also make like mini apps in Google Gemini. Like for example, my son, he wanted some Robux or some shit, right? And I was like, nah, man, we shorten Roblox stock. All right. I can't spend my money against my self-interest, but I can show you how to make your own game. So my son is eight. We fucked around and made a game. We started prompting and we kept changing the game, changing it, changing it. And this is what we came up with. You can jump in. You can, you can like drop bombs and blow up buildings. Hey, you can do it again, man. You're a little game. You can jump in this car. This is all stuff you wanted. You wanted to be able to blow shit up with the, knock shit over with the car. Smash with the car, drop bombs with the car. That's not that impressive, right? Until you remember an eight-year-old made it. And then, but you can also do useful shit with it as well. Like it's not just for games. For example, I wanted to come up with a to-do list. I think Trello wasn't working or some shit happened. I just had it make me a to-do list, right? I was making a bunch of reels. So I was like, all right, cool. Boom. I can put it real when I need to accomplish it. Boom. And then I said, I want to time how long it takes me to do it. So I put a timer in there. Now I'm working on this shit, right? Now I'm done. Boom. So I wasn't able to make a to-do list app for myself. You know, you know, a lot of times I do these videos with tier list and I have some Instagram reels. So I said, make me a tier list app. I can change the name. I can change what all this stuff is. And then I can upload photos here and make the tier list. I've used this, like these tools I made. I just, just prompting. My girl was about to buy, you know, she's learning how to trade and she was about to buy this trading software. And I was like, man, fuck that shit. Let's just make it real quick. I was just prompting doing all this stuff and I made it right in here. It's called trade flow and I can mark my trades and it has a calendar kind of like trade Zilla. And we just threw this shit together and it's pretty cool, man. And it saves your data locally. You can mark all your trades. It's pretty dope. I did this like today just to show you guys. And then we made another game, man, where it's like, I'm riding around with money. I got the tax man trying to catch me. Boom. And then I can shoot him with money. Right? Boom. Oh, bankrupt. It's called baller brothers. It's like Mario brothers, but you got to get money. And the more money you get is a weapon. The tax man and the bankers are trying to get your money from you. You know, I was going to try to win it for you guys, but this shit was more difficult than I thought when I made it. The tax man, the evil tax man. Got him. Boom. Got more cash. Tax man trying to get me. Got to run. You can now, you see, I got the money. And every time I shoot, I lose a little bit of money. Yeah. I got to start a gaming channel, man, with bullshit AI games. I made. I'm throwing money at motherfuckers, man. Throwing money at the haters, flexing on the haters. And then at the end, when you win, you got a bunch of hoes. And if you want to play again, you can re up ultimate baller. Gemini's dope. Another thing you can do is you can summarize YouTube videos with Gemini. You can't really do this with Chad GPT. Not very well. So let's say I pull up a YouTube video that I like AI agents, man. I might know. Sam Altman predicted the one person, $1 billion. Open up Gemini. Be like, bam. And I go summarize this YouTube video. Chad GPT struggles with this, right? But Google owns Gemini and YouTube, right? So it's a little easier. Boom. And now it is breaking down the whole shit for me. Here's a video of me, right? Actual video file. I can upload that in the Gemini and say, yo, transcribe this for me. Where other LLMs can't really read it. You can't do this with Chad GPT. It's actually going to go through the video and read that shit. Boom. And it's giving me the whole transcription. I don't know what other tool that can do that. That's free, right? So start fucking with Gemini. I think you'll like it a lot. Plus it's image generation. I think it's one of the best image generation, Nano Banana, and the best video generation with Google VO3. Only thing Chad GPT has over Gemini is projects. The ability to organize your chats and projects. That's the one thing Gemini is missing. If they have some sort of project functionality, this would be my go-to with it. But because they don't have it, I still use Chad GPT a lot. The next tool is, I'm going to put these two together. They're two different tools, right? There's a tool called Sandcastles AI. And what this tool does, you can find short form videos like on Instagram or TikTok in your niche that are already going viral, like outlier videos, right? And then you can recreate these. And with Sandcastles, it'll transcribe it for you. And you can kind of like mimic it in your own style. You don't want to steal or copy off motherfuckers verbatim, bar for bar, word for word. But you can take maybe the format, maybe a version of the hook, and then you put your own spin on it, right? You add your own flavor to it. Like a musician, there's a lot of songs that are in the same key with the same chord progression. But the lyrics will be different or the tempo will be different or even the melodies, right? So it's kind of like that. But this is like an easier way to go viral. It's finding videos that are already going viral and making them in your own way with your own spin on them. Another way to come up with ideas, because this is paid, there's a free tool you can use that I put together called Viral Content Architect. We'll put the link in the description. Viral Content Architect. So what you do is you put your niche in here. You can pick through all these, you know, whatever your niche is. And you can just type in your target market. And then you say what platform you want to post on. And then boom, immediately it's going to give you 20 like amazing ideas. And you're going to get hooks. And you're going to get like kind of an outline for the script. This is amazing. So I'll put this together because when I teach people to grow their own fitness business, one of the main things they said was, man, I just have a hard time coming up with ideas for what to post. So I just wanted to solve that problem for you. It's like it's right here. It's 100% free. You can hit the link in the description if you want to check that out. Viral Content Architect. It costs me money to run that. Okay. You can only use it three times a day. It has a fucking limit. You only use it three times a day, man. But that's 60 ideas. You don't, you shouldn't need more than that per day. I had to put a limit on it because a hater would just run it up, try to bankrupt me. One of the motherfucking haters will hire a Filipino to fucking just do that shit all day. I'll have Claude Bot doing that shit over and over again to try to try to hate on the young G. The next tool is 11 Labs. 11 Labs is a tool that allows you to clone your voice. But you can do a lot of other cool things with it too. Now, you started off with just cloning your voice, but now you can do a lot of other shit. All right. So what's cool about 11 Labs, you can pick different voices or you can clone your own voice. So let's say I go to text the speech right now so I can type some shit in here. Let's go back to Gemini. Write me a speech about why it's important to make money. Write it in the voice of handsome YouTuber Brandon Carter. All right. So we got a speech. Let's put some of this in here. We're not going to take it all because it costs credits. So we're only going to take the first half of it. Throw it in 11 Labs. Boom. And then we can pick my voice. We're going to pick my voice. I already cloned it a long time ago. So I uploaded a bunch of shit from my podcast, like podcast clips that was done on a good mic. And I uploaded like an hour of shit into it. And then boom, then generate speech. Let's see how it sounds. It's not perfect. I'm going to be honest. Listen, let's stop playing games and get real for it. Every day I see people acting like money isn't everything or they're wanting to be wealthy is somehow shallow. But let me tell you something. The same people who say money doesn't buy happiness are usually the ones stressed out at 2 a.m. because they don't know how they're going to pay their mortgage or take care of their family. Here is the truth that nobody wants to tell you. Some of it's pretty good, right? And you can regenerate it. You can change things. You can change the speed. You can change the stability, the similarity. You can make language. Sometimes when I make like content, it'll be like a voiceover. Remember, sometimes that should be done with 11 labs. Or a lot of times this happened recently. I was recording a YouTube video and I said some shit wrong. And instead of refilming it, I just put that shit in 11 labs, sent it to NEMA, said, yo, replace this with that. And it happened right there, right? Or I can change it to one of these voices. I can change it to, I can make it a fucking woman. They got voices in there. Let us stop playing games and get real for a second. Every day, I see people acting like money isn't everything or that wanting to be wealthy is somehow shallow. They have different voices. I only use it for my own, right? But you can also, they have a lot of different tools here. You can clone, like if I go back here. Let's go back to make it me, Brandon Carter. Let's make it a little bit faster. And let's put some explanation marks. This will like change the way it sounds. All right, let's generate again. Listen, let's stop playing games and get real for a second. Every day, I see people acting like money isn't everything or that wanting to be wealthy is somehow shallow. All right, so we're going to download that. Let's say we liked it. The same people who say money doesn't buy happiness are usually the ones stressed out. All right, so what I'm about to do now is I'm going to go to 11 labs. Sometimes this takes a minute, so we might have to go back. You go video and images. What I'm going to do is I'm going to put it on. You got access to all the video models here. So VO3, Cling, these are like some really good models. What I'm going to use is Creatify Aurora. All right, I found a picture of me. I'm going to dump it in there. I found a picture of me. All right, and I'm going to use this fucking tool, right? And now it's going to have me talking. Again, it's not going to be perfect, and this is not the picture I would have used. Listen, let's stop playing games and get real for a second. It's not the best. Every day, I see people acting like money isn't everything or that wanting to be wealthy is somehow shallow. But let me tell you something. The same people who say money doesn't buy happiness are usually the ones stressed out. Yeah, it's not the best, right? But with the right editing, you could make that work. I used the 11 Lab shit today with this video. Coming up with ideas. Claude Coworks. AI Images. Nano Banana. Groening. Cronk. Website Images. Nano Banana. AI Video. Cling. Building a Website. Lovable. Company Finance. Claude Coworks. Company Brain. Notion AI. Business Communication. Slack. How can I learn all this stuff? I'm doing a live training where I show you exactly how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. This is really me, the old man. What I did is I opened up Google. In Google, I put a picture of me, a screenshot, and I said, make me an old man. Then I put it into a Lemon Labs with the voice, and then it came out like this. An old man version of me. Another tool you can do for AI avatars is a tool called Haygen. But Haygen, you can create AI avatars of yourself. So what 11 Labs can do for voice, Haygen can do for actual video. And I know some big creators who actually use this pretty frequently. But if you don't want to use Haygen, there's another tool that works really well. So this tool is called Higgsfield. It has tons of apps and tons of things you can use, tons of video image stuff you can do, and all the great, the best models are in here. And just some of the ways you can use it. For example, right here, I uploaded this picture of myself. This is the original pictures. And in this tool called Angles, it made a bunch of different pictures for me based off that one. Some of them are usable. Some of them are not. It's kind of cool that it'll come up with a bunch of different variations. Like some of them are usable. And I've posted some of these before in the past. Like that one, I could use that. And it's based off me. This is the original. Then I got this one. So what it does is it came up with a bunch of different angles. Here's another version of me. This is the original image. Then it gave me this angle. That's not really usable. It made my head weird. And I don't like that. I don't like that. But some of these are usable. It thinks my back had abs. That's not going to work. That's not going to work. But sometimes some of them are usable. And then I got my girl, man. This is a picture she posted on Instagram. That's the original. And then it came up with a bunch of variations, different angles of her. You know, it's cool. But then you can also do video with it, too. And sometimes I think this works better than Haitian, what I'm about to show you. I uploaded a picture of Donald Trump right here. And I uploaded a picture of me singing Bad Bunny in English. And I posted this video. Got like 100,000 views. Can't embrace you, dude. Talk me how to love. Talk me how to... All right. So cool. You got that. Sometimes you can just do videos. I made this picture of me. I uploaded that. Made a whole fucking video scene out of it. Okay. So I was making a YouTube video. So I recorded myself. Just no lights, no fans, just with my phone. And then I took an image of me when I was in the studio. It's called motion control. So it mimics my motion. Taking one image and made eight more out of them. You can use these for carousels. That's not really me. But sometimes I'll post this shit. It's based off a photo of me. All I did was I recorded it with my phone. And you get like 30 seconds clips. You might have to put them together. You know, it won't work well for long form. But you can do so much shit with Hicksfield, man. It's like the possibilities are kind of endless. This is one of my favorite. This motion control can be really helpful though, right? Because sometimes I don't feel like setting up the fucking mic or the handset cameras. I just want to record some of my phone and I can have an image of me in the studio like I did before. And it could be convincing. The next tool, Gamma AI. So Gamma, you can make like presentations that look really, really fucking cool and solid. Boom. This is like an example of something I made. All right. But you can print these out. You can make e-books with it. All you got to do is put in your text. Let's say I go to Gemini and I say, write me an e-book on a fat loss with keto based on the teachings of Brandon Carter. Write it in his voice. I don't have to say that. Gemini, I use Gemini so much. It knows who the fuck I am. It knows what's up with the big dog. But I did that anyway. All right. So cool. So it's writing me this document. I'm not going to proofread it. Let's just say that I fucking fuck with it. Super heavy. Then I can go over here, say create new plain text. Let's say we want to make it. This is going to be a document. It's going to be like an e-book. We're going to give away. You can also make an e-book to sell. Right. I'm going to paste the content in here and then I'm going to say preserve exact text. It was going to ask me some more questions. I got to start building. I got to pick the style. I like this one. Typically is going to add images, make the images like this. And now I'm going to hit generate and it's going to start making. The e-book for me. Like back in the past, I used to have the hierographic designers to do his e-book and shit. Now, fuck that. The ultimate blueprint to getting ripped as hell. Look how I was putting together the e-book. You know, it's like making the shit like pretty dope. Now I can add stuff to it. I can change this image. I don't want that image of this man, whoever it is. I can make it me. I can start changing shit around and it's pretty dope. It's real fast. And I've made some really cool presentations out of this, right? What you can do is when you're posting online, let's say, you know, I teach people to grow their online fitness business. And one thing I tell them is, yo, man, write a free guide for people to get right. And when you post, instead of saying buy coaching from me, say, hey, download my free guide. And then you're going to use the next tool to get to give it to them. So the next tool is called ManyChat. So with ManyChat, you ever see somebody, these people to say, comment the word something below and I'll send it to you. They say that on Instagram. Typically they're using ManyChat or a tool like it. And then that tool will automatically DM them the free thing or whatever it is. Right. And when you do that, you give them the free thing, but now you can start talking to them and start a conversation with a DM in the DM, see what their issues are, what their problems are, then get them on a sales call and close them. This is a game changer. You can post more content now because you're using all these tools. You don't have to worry about ideas because you got the viral content architect. You got Gemini to help you with shit. Right. Well, you got all these tools now to make content better and you can still just talk to the camera as well. Right. And then you have a free guide to give them, give people. And then you do it. And then you give it to them with ManyChat. I've helped people make money with this same system. Content, free guide, DM. From the DM, you book them on sales calls and close them. One more tool I forgot to mention is if you want to edit your videos faster is there's a few of them. Opus clips is a good one. The script, sub magic. I'm most familiar with Opus clips. But what's cool with Opus clips is you can upload like a long form video or a YouTube video and it'll make the clips for you. So now you got the game plan to really make money using AI. So you can get more social media. You can put out more content on social media and you can monetize it. Now, listen, if you want to learn even more ways to grow your online fitness business using AI, I'm actually doing a live training on March 1st where I'll show you exactly how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. I'm sure you had to use AI to get more followers, actually get more sales. We kind of only touched on it, right? To get more leads and more sales. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so you can actually take on more clientele without having to hire coaches behind you, right? And so your clients still get amazing results. Make sure you register for that class. The link is in the description. It's going to be Sunday, March 1st at 2 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. You are not going to miss it. Click the link in the description, all right? Peace. We'll be right back.