So, I get questions every now and then about the law of attraction or manifesting and the majority of the time I'll just dismiss it and say, "Bro, just get to work. Just get to work." However, I have seen some things in my life that make me question the validity of it. as in maybe there is something to it. And there's been a lot of examples in my life, but I'm going to give you the biggest one and then I'll pause and I'll explain why I think it works, what what I I really think is going on. So it might have been 2016 17 somewhere around that time and I was in Orlando because I was getting this award. So this company called Clickfunnels, it used to be like the most popular platform for people who were selling their own digital products or even physical products, but it was basically a funnel building platform. And it was the major player around that time. and they would give out this award called the the the two comic club award for people who built a funnel that made a million dollars in a year. And I was getting my ClickFunnels award, which was cool, you know, I I was I was about to get my two comic club award. And I was super excited to get it. So much so that when we were lining up, the award winners were lining up to get the award, I made myself last cuz I wanted to stand out. I was already going to stand out cuz I was the most jacked and I was the only one wearing a tank top and Jordans. So I make myself laugh last. I I give Russell Brunson, the the owner of ClickFunnels, a huge like hug and the other dude and I'm holding my my award above my head. I'm think, "Yeah, mission accomplished." Then Russell says, "Hey, we're starting a new award. This is for people who have done $10 million with a funnel." And I was like, "Oh man, now I'm feeling like a [\h__\h] Thought I was the man. Now, now I'm not the man. Anyway, they give this award and one of the people who got it was Alex Herozi. This was the first time I met Hermosi. He had got the $10 million award and I was like, what the [\h__\h] Okay, there's another level. So, I immediately when I get back to New York, I tell my graphic designer and video guy at the time, fly with Johnny Tai. He got a YouTube page, man. He one of them like fashion Asians. He does like a fashion He has a fashion YouTube channel. He's like one of them cool fashion Asians like like like the bad guys and K-pop demon hunters, you know, the the boy band group. So, he was like my little K-pop demon hunter. Anyway, I said, "Yo, I what I need you to do is make take an image of me and Photoshop it." So, I'm holding this new two comic club award, the one for the 10 mil, but als in one hand, right? And then the other hand, I need you to put a picture of me with the the big gold YouTube button for a million subscribers. These were goals I had. So, Fly with Johnny Tai makes that design for me. I print that [\h__\h] out and I put it on my wall right where I'm working. Put on my wall. See it everywhere. Kind of like a vision board. And um now I I have both of those awards. I have both of those awards. Now here's the thing. Some people would look at that like one of them girls who collects, you know, those girls who collect rocks and crystals and [\h__\h] [\h__\h] got a gravel pit next to her bed, man, with colorful rocks and she like praise to the moon. You know what I'm talking about? One of them one of them hoes. Some people will say that I sound like that or one of those girls would say, "Yo, that's the law of attraction." However, I don't think that I'm a X-Man, you know? I don't think that I got powers or that I just attracted it in the sense where I don't think I'm magic, you know? I don't think there was anything magical about it. What I think happened, something I've talked about before, but there's a part of your brain called the reticular activating system or RA. For the remainder of this video, I'm going to refer to it as RA. And it's a real part of your brain that's that rests at the bottom of your brain stem. And its job is to filter out the world so you only notice what's important. Because there are too many sights, sounds, smells, textures going on simultaneously. If we paid attention to everything, we noticed everything, we'd go crazy. So your brain filters out what it feels like is important and you only notice what your RA system is programmed to notice. For example, when you or one of the homies gets a new car, start seeing that car everywhere, right? Again, you are not an X-Men. You did not attract it. You ain't Professor Xavier. You know, you ain't you ain't Jean Gray, the Phoenix, [\h__\h] You ain't even Cyclops. What happens is that car was there the whole time, you just never noticed it cuz it wasn't programmed into your RA system. But once when you or the homies got the new car, then it was programmed in your RA system and now you start seeing it everywhere. The car was there the whole time. So, how does that relate to goal achievement? Well, when you start, let's call it visualizing yourself accomplishing a goal, what's going to happen is you'll see different paths to attain it. The paths are already there. You'll just see different paths to obtain it. And you still have to work, you know, you still have to work. But here's where it gets sinister. It can work in the opposite way as well. For example, if you are sometimes I I I'll talk to people about their goals and they be like, "Yeah, but I can't do it or I ain't got this or I need this." And they start looking for reasons or their brain shows them reasons why they can't accomplish their goals. What do you think that does to their behavior? You know what what is that? What do you think that does to their their drive? Yeah. If all you're seeing is ways why you can't accomplish it, then you won't you won't even go for it. But if you start programming your brain that you can get this thing, what's going to happen is you'll start seeing different paths to get there. And I think that's what's important. I think that's how the law of attraction works. I think it's there's a sciencebased approach to there's a neuroscience to it. I I don't think you just attract it like magic. I believe when you program your RA system to to to get the goal like you say hey this is the thing I want your brain will start finding the ways that already exist where you can do it. And if you start thinking that you can't or if you believe that you can't, you'll see reasons why that exists. This is very important. It's very important that you notice it. So, how can you utilize this? Well, you ain't got a K-pop demon hunter working for you like I did 10 years ago, but you do got artificial intelligence. So, what you want to do is this is what I want you to do. I want you to open up Google Gemini. The reason we're using Gemini instead of chat jeopardy is because Gemini has AI I think it has the best image model and they just came out with the with the new version of it, Gemini 3.1. It's lit. It's crazy. All right. So, you're going to open up Gemini. Even with the free version, you can do this. take a photograph of yourself and tell Gemini to put it to put the this the guy in the image in whatever scene you want to in whatever scene that will represent your goals, right? So you can say, "Yo, put me in with a mansion and a put this guy in an image with a mansion in the Lambo." Print that [\h__\h] out. Put it on your board. Put it somewhere. I'm telling you, man. Look at it every day and imagine it. Imagine what it' be like. And what's going to happen is you'll start programming your brain to see different opportunities that they already exist. Just like when your boy got the car, you started seeing the car everywhere. If you start programming your brain for success, what's going to happen is you'll start seeing paths where you can become successful. And remember, the contrary is true, too. So, you're going to print that out. And then you still got to work though. You still got to work. You still got to find a path to accomplish your goals, you know. And I think this is a cool way to do vision boards. And I think this is why vision boards work. So I want you guys to to do that. This is going to be a quicker video. Just do that thing. I'm telling you that [\h__\h] worked for me. All right. And uh listen, if you guys want to learn how you can grow your online fitness business, I'm actually doing a live training on Sunday where I will show you how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. That's how I made my first million. Now I teach other people how to grow their online fitness businesses with AI. So I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually grow your following, right? So you get more followers, more views, more engagement. I'm going to show you how to actually use AI to get more sales so you can automate a lot of this stuff, right? Get more sales, make more money, more leads, and I'm going show you how to use AI where you can actually train your clients so they get amazing results. It's going to be live this Sunday at 2 PM. Hit the link in the description and uh I'll be on there live so I'll answer everybody's questions. Make sure you guys accomplish your goals. All right, let's get it.