All right, I am 43 years old and here are seven things I wish I knew in my 20s. If I can go back in time, I would have taught these things to my 20 yearear-old self and it would avoided me a lot of opportunity for hardship and it would have made my life a lot easier and I'd be a lot more successful than I am now. I know you're thinking more successful than this? How? There's other levels. Sometimes people pull their private yachts up to my crib and land their helicopter on it. That's what I'm talking about. That kind of wealth. All right. So, here are the seven things. Uh the first one is uh you need to learn how to control others. When I say control, I mean really control. And when I say control, I don't mean I don't mean directly controlling their behavior. I mean controlling their emotions. However, the decisions people make are based on the emotions they feel at the time they make the decision. Right? So you can influence behavior by controlling emotions. Let me explain. At any given time, everyone's in a different state, an emotional state. Sometimes you're in a happy state, sometimes you're in a sad state, sometimes you're confident, sometimes you're um insecure. Everybody is in some sort of state right now at any moment, and they can change willy-nilly, right? You can control other people's state. For example, have you ever been in a room with people and the vibes were good and then somebody comes in all [\h__\h] mean or sour or aggressive and they instantly change the state of everyone in the room, right? Or you ever been in a been a place and everybody was in a h in a regular state, just calm, not super happy, not super down, but maybe like a happy toddler runs in a room and everybody lights up or a friendly puppy runs in the room and everybody lights up. Have you seen that? Yeah. You need to be that toddler or that puppy. You need to be the person who's going in places elevating the state in a positive way because when people are in positive states, they make better decisions. Your emotions play a huge role in the decisions you make. For example, I got a friend, dude I grew up with in Chicago. He's doing life in prison and he deserves it. He killed those people for sure. And he wouldn't have committed a double homicide if he wasn't in a very angry state. If he was in a happy, joyful state, he would have behaved differently, right? And he'd still be out here in the world with the rest of us. Instead, he's behind bars indefinitely. Also, some of y'all have had sex with people that that you wouldn't have had you not been in a super horny state. Some of y'all wouldn't even be here if your dad wasn't in a super horny state when he saw that that when that I threw herself at him. She called him in the right place, right time. Nine months later, you here, right? So, you have to control people's state and but in order to do in order to influence other people's state, you have to first control your state. That's the most important thing. And there's three ways to control your state. And it's very important that you follow these rules and understand them because most people, they just go around life letting other people and outside circumstances control their state. They're in traffic. They're going to get mad. They miss their plane. They're going to start throwing a fit. [\h__\h] Trump says something, good or bad, they're going to respond appropriately. Like everybody is controlled by other people. Almost everybody. When you can control your own state, then you start to set yourself apart. And you'll make better decisions as well because the decisions people make are based off the emotional state they are in at the time they make the decision. Okay? So you got the three ways to control your state. The first one is your physiology, right? Motion creates emotion. The way you move your body, the way you hold your body is going to have a huge impact on your emotional state. For example, if I start, if I came in here like this, all said, sooner or later, I'mma start feeling that way. You get what I'm saying? If I if I hold myself like I'm a G, sooner or later, I start feeling that way. There's a great TED talk here on YouTube uh by this researcher and they had two groups of people. Group A, group B and group A, no, I'm sorry. They took everyone's testosterone and cortisol. They measured it before the experiment and after. And what they did for the experiment, they had group A standing in a sad pose for two minutes like a [\h__\h] Then they had group group B standing like a superhero power pose for two minutes. And then they tested their testosterone and cortisol after and they noticed that group B, the sad [\h__\h] [\h__\h] pose group, they their cortisol had had risen and their testosterone had dropped. I mean these are momentarily things, right? It happened and group B who's standing in the in a superhero pose after two just two minutes the testosterone was elevated and their cortisol was lower right? So your physiology can actually affect you on a biological level cuz what are emotions? Think about it. Emotions are nothing but different neurochemicals going off in your brain. Like emotions aren't even real, bro. Emotions are not even real. It's lit. They're literally all in your head. It's just different kinds of neurochemicals going off in your brain. Whether it's uh serotonin, oxytocin, neuropinephrine, dopamine, these neurochemicals, they they they form in your brain and are released and different combinations of them are what emotions are, right? So emotions are literally all in your head, right? Your physiology controls your emotion to a great degree. If you start laughing and smiling for long enough, you're going to feel happy. If you start like a [\h__\h] you feel happy. So really be cognizant of how you hold your body. Be cognizant of how you you present yourself because it it controls the state. And remember, the decisions people make are based off the emotions they feel at the time they make the decision. All right, so that's one physiology. The next thing you need to do is your environment, right? It's hard for me to be sad in this environment. It's hard for me, well, not hard, it's harder for me to be sad in this environment. Are you ever been in a messy room or messy house or whatever and then you cleaned up your room? cleaned up your house. Next thing you know, you start feeling better. It feels better in your Yeah. Your environment can affects your your emotional state. Also, when I say environment, it's like the people you're around. The people you're around will affect your state as well. Like the example I gave earlier, uh when when the happy puppy runs in the room, tail wagon, super excited to to to meet everybody, you can see the state in the room change. You know, if I walk into a room, everybody's happy and I go, who the [\h__\h] is in charge here? Right? You will see an immediately immediate shift in state in that room. All right? So th and and the third way to control your own state and it's the most powerful one is your thoughts. Whatever you think about you're going to feel whether it's real or not. Whatever you think about you're going to feel whether it's real or not. For example, if you got a pet, imagine if that pet right now, imagine that pet slowly walked into your room, looked at you, went and then died. Right? Just imagine it. Picture in your head. you right now. Right now is some of you picturing that you're you're you got sad. It's not even real. Hey, it's not even real. Your puppy's doing great. Your cat is fine. This is just this is just a thought exercise, right? You got sad just thinking about it. It's not even real. That's the power of your thoughts, right? You whatever you think about you're going to feel even if it's not real, right? So, you have to control what you think about, right? All right. It really it really guards your thoughts so they stay in a positive perspective and that way you'll think positive. You'll feel you'll be in a more positive state under those circumstances. Now once you've mastered controlling your state then you got to control the states of others. And the way I do that is I think of myself as like the head of state. I want to control the states of everyone around me. Much to the chagrin of my girlfriend cuz she's like, "Oh, you just talk to everybody. She thinks I'm too friendly and you know, she don't like when when I make the hoes laugh and smile." But anyway, everywhere I go, I'm the head of state. So, this means, you know, if I'm talking to [\h__\h] janitors, custodians, if I walk, I don't just walk past him or pretend they don't exist. You be like, "Yo, what's going on, man?" I probably know his name if he works in my building. Yo, what's going on, Demarcus? What's popping, man? Yo, man. What's up, man? Good [\h__\h] You know, uh, man, you looking strong. You've been losing weight, man. What's What's up, man? You've been working out, you know, whatever. Uh, I I I control their state by coming in there with positive energy, greeting them, right? Maybe even giving them a compliment. Don't make [\h__\h] up. Don't lie, right? But find find reasons to compliment people. I'm at CVS buying [\h__\h] and and soon as I go to, "Hey, what's going on? How you doing? Yo, the to the chick behind the register, you know what I'm saying? What's going on? Hey man, good to see you again. Yo, thank you. Blah, blah, blah. Right, whatever. When I'm at when I'm at the pharmacy picking up the testosterone in the Seattle, you know, uh I I'm I'm raised in the state of the pharmacist. Just everywhere I go, I'm the head of state, [\h__\h] waiters, waitresses. What's going on, man? Oh, man. Thank you, man. I appreciate that. What's your name again? All right, cool. Right. And the reason I do that is one, it's a good way to go through life. Everyone will like you. You won't have a shortage of friends and allies in the world if you go around positively changing everyone's state. Right? Also, I don't want their state to influence me. Right? Remember, states are contagious. The way someone else is feeling, it can rub off on you. Pause. You know, if you're around somebody all sad, you'll start feeling that way. If you're around somebody who's happy all the time, you start feeling that way, right? So, I immediately take charge of other people's state because I don't want their negative state to influence me. So, if I see somebody in a bad mood, I immediately go into state control, right? I'm raising their state. No, some sort of way. uh whether it's compliments, just my just my energy, just the way I move through the world world, I'm controlling their state because I don't want their shitty state to control mine. It's it's not even like I'm trying to be a nice guy. It's like I don't want your [\h__\h] state to control mine. Right? Cuz the emotions people make are based off the emotions they feel at the time they make the decision. So, I want to make sure I'm in a high emotional state because I I believe it'll help me make better decisions. Okay. Next thing you need to understand what and I wish I knew this in my 20s is networking is overrated. It's kind of [\h__\h] right? It's what what what people don't understand. They spend all this time, how do I meet how do I meet high value people or how do I network with wealthy people? I get that question a lot. And the truth is it's only beneficial when you don't really need it. You get what I'm saying? If you meet someone who you deem to have very high value and you don't have nothing to offer, but you're trying to network them, presume presumably you're trying to network with them because you're trying to extract value from them. Right? And that [\h__\h] don't work. It has to be a a mutually advantageous value exchange in life. And it doesn't it doesn't need to be like just money, you know? It it could be anything. But you have to be a person of value to network with high value people, right? But the truth is to become a person of value, you don't need to network. You I'm saying networking is overrated. Like I I was making you know few hundredk a year without doing any network. You can get it popping by yourself, right? You can get it popping by yourself with just [\h__\h] head down working, right? And what's going to happen is as you start making progress, people will see that you're a person of value and then people will be trying to network with you. You get what I'm saying? Like when I I met Andrew Tate and Tristan Tate in 2018, maybe it's 2017, but whatever. Uh what happened was I had I was already popping on YouTube. I had like I don't know six 700,000 followers. I had hundreds of thousands of Instagram followers. I was making millions, right? And one of my boys had broke up with his girlfriend and he went he went super red pill and he bought and he found Andrew T. This is before he was famous, right? He didn't really start getting famous till 2000. and he uh he bought his PhD course and he was telling me how funny it was. He was like, "Bro, you need to watch it just cuz it's hilarious." And I'm watching this [\h__\h] and I was like, "Yo, this is the worst course I ever seen." He's like drawing on on a whiteboard with a marker and you can't even see what he's drawing, right? However, the dude was hilarious and he was dropping some jewels. It was it was some it was some good game in there. Uh, and then I just followed him on Instagram and after I watched it because I watched it like it was a comedy show. It was man short and you know Andrew is a funny dude. And and then he reached out to me after I followed him. You get what I'm saying? And then he was in America. Him and his brother was in America. They was in Atlanta. I was there the same time. They invited me to some [\h__\h] and we was kicking it. And that's how we we became cool, right? But I wasn't trying to extract value from him at that time. At that time I was like way more popular than him and and probably and he says he told me at the time I was making more money than him. You get what I'm saying? But uh I mean that has totally shifted. He made 20 million for that fight he w he did not long ago. That fight on Rumble, you know? I ain't never made 20 million in a day. You know what I'm saying? And he's and he's the most Google person in the world. But like it was I don't know how that that wouldn't happen had I not had it popping, right? And you can get it popping on your own. You get what I'm saying? Without any [\h__\h] networking. I promise you can't. You can't. But then once you start to get it popping, people will reach out to you and it'll be easy for you for you to network. All right. So, first thing you need to get it is get it popping. Second thing you need to do is join groups where the people you want to network are in. Whether it's masterminds, masterminds are really dope because everybody in there paid a lot of money to be in it, which means they have disposable income for that and they're also trying to learn the same stuff you're trying to learn. Uh so they're kind of some of the best networking opportunities, you know, when you can join these groups or mastermind where other people in the fields you're you're working towards are in, you know, they still won't work with you unless there's some value. It's going to be difficult to make friends under those circumstances, you know, unless you got it popping, right? But if you you can still bring something to the table if you have a skill set, like maybe you don't got it popping, but you're really good at something. For example, my boy Galani, he's like the master of AI [\h__\h] Like he knows more about AI than almost every AI influencer. He like he really studied that [\h__\h] And he was in my boy's mastermind. Yeah, I make way more money than Galani. Uh, and I'm way more popular on social media. But, you know, he he said, "Hey, man. Here's what I know about AI." He gave a a presentation at the mastermind about AI. And I I went up to him after it. You know what I'm saying? I went up to him and started asking him questions and now we we cool, man. I run my AI questions by him. He's helped me with some [\h__\h] right? So, he's able to network with me based off his skill set, right? He he had value and he's taught me like a lot about AI, AI agents, how I can implement them in my business and I've made money off the stuff he's told me. You feel what I'm saying? And that's kind of how it works, man. So join groups and lead with value. Lead with value. So when I do network with these people, I'm always trying to give value to them. When I meet someone I want to network with, it happens naturally now, right? But I lead with value. For example, uh when I first met Dan Mortell, we it was an event and we were both speaking at the event in Vegas and he reached out to me. Right. At the time, Dan didn't really have it popping on social media. He had just like 100,000 YouTube subscribers and he he wasn't really he didn't like 100,000 Instagram followers, which is which is good, right? I'm not [\h__\h] on that, right? But he um he reached out to me, man. Invited invited me to a dinner he was having with some other people. We all became super cool. Uh and now Dan has [\h__\h] twice as many subscribers on YouTube as me, twice as many YouTube followers, you know, and Dan got more money than me. He got a private jet, right? I listen, there's always a level with the money. He got a [\h__\h] private jet. But I never asked Dan for anything, you know? If anything, I was like, when he was focusing on growing his YouTube, when I had, I don't know, 10 times as many subscribers as him, I was like, "Yo, man, come on my YouTube. Let's do a collab." You know? And at the time, that was more beneficial for him than it was for me, right? Didn't nobody know him at the time? You get what I'm saying? Like that's how networking works. It's most effective when you don't need it. So don't So I would tell myself, "Hey man, don't focus on networking right now because you ain't got no value. You ain't got nothing to add. You ain't got nothing to bring to the table yet, young fella. Once you have all that [\h__\h] then networking will one become kind of natural. It'll happen just organically. You won't have to go out of your way to do it. And two, it'll be most most effective when you don't need it. You get what I'm saying? Yeah, that's what I would tell the the little homie if I see him. The next thing I wish I knew when I was younger is your vibe attracts your tribe. So sometimes I'll see women on social media talk about, man, there's no good guys. Every guy's an [\h__\h] or all men cheat. And I'll be like, okay, well look how you're presenting yourself online, right? You got the titties out. You shaking that ass. You know what I'm saying? You look you you I I I done seen your whole body and you got an Only Fans link in your bio. What kind of dude did you think you was going to attract? You thought you was going to attract a dude who wants to be a reverend when he grows up. You thought you was going to attract a [\h__\h] preacher, right? You thought you was going to attract a lawyer or a doctor or Fortune 500 CEO. No, man. Your vibe attracts your tribe, ho. And the same thing with dudes. And when dudes say when dudes say all women are like this or all women are like that, it's like, well, they're like that for you. Look at the look at the [\h__\h] way you're presenting yourself. Look at the way your your behavior, the way you present yourself. It's like, what did you expect, right? You out here flashing money on the gram, hanging out your Lambo. You got mad. you on you all your videos is you on yachts with [\h__\h] what you thought you was going to attract a [\h__\h] church girl you a chick who wanted you know what I'm saying like what what do you think was going you you think the good girls see this and be like that's the man for me no right your vibe attracts your your your tribe and it's not even just in dating your friendships right your circle is a reflection of you right if your friends are [\h__\h] out here hustling, getting in great shape, working on their goals, talking about uh things that are positive and optimistic, then that's that's a reflection of you, right? Because those type of people wouldn't want to be around a [\h__\h] person who's the opposite. You get what I'm saying? And so it it's the the the way you control your vibe and your perception. So you can attract different kind of people into your life is one is your energy. The way we talked about before like what kind of state are you bringing? You know like sad people like to be around sad people. [\h__\h] talkers like to be around [\h__\h] talkers. Positive people focusing on success and achievement like to be around people like that. Birds of a feather flock together. You get what I'm saying? And it's like that with social media, too. That's why I never I never did those videos where you talk [\h__\h] about other people or YouTube drama or anything because then you attract fans who are only into that cuz I've met YouTubers who don't like their fans. Like straight up, I've met YouTubers who don't like their their fans. Your vibe is a a reflection of your tribe. Every time I meet one of my subscribers and they be like, "Yo, Brandon, I've been following you for a long time, man. You doing your thing. Thank you so much. You help me so much. I've been following you since for the last 10 years." And I I usually say, "Yo, congratulations." When they say they've been following me, I that's something funny to me when someone says, "Man, oh, I follow you for so long. Congratulations is what I say to them." But anyway, that's just something makes make me laugh. But I always enjoy meeting them and they always seem like good guys. or or good women. You know, there's about three women who follow me, right? I I like my subscribers. The people who [\h__\h] with me, I like them. But if I was a shit-talking [\h__\h] trying to bring other people down, I would attract people I didn't like. You know, it's the social media and life, friend groups, right? If we go back to the networking, it's kind of like, yo, man, how do I network with high value people? Be a high value person. You get what I'm saying? Your vibe attracts your tribe. All right? So, you want to focus on your energy, your appearance. Your appearance is very important. All right? Uh, you know, I work in the f my businesses is have typically been in the fitness industry. You know, I was I made my first million as an online trainer. So, I had to walk the walk with my appearance. I had to be a strong [\h__\h] I had to be ripped. I took it and I took it seriously because your vibe attracts your tribe, you know. Uh and e even now I teach people one one of my main businesses is called High Ticket Trainer where I teach people how to grow their online fitness businesses. And I don't think I could be a fat [\h__\h] slob and do that. You know, if I'm helping people in the fitness industry, I don't think I'd attract the right people for that if I wasn't in good shape. Your vibe attracts your drive. Real quick side note, if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook in the description to show you how to make your first $5,000 as an online trainer. You can go ahead and click on that link and get that. All right. So, it's your energy, your appearance, and the way you speak. The way you speak, you know, are you are you talking about positive things? Are you talking about negative things? uh do you also your jargon like so so check this out when I say the way you speak I also mean your your your jargon. So for example uh President Trump, right? He grew up in a rich area of Queens, New York, right? He went to a good college. His dad was a millionaire. So he's surrounded by millionaires and other families, you know. Uh but he speaks when they test his his speech, his speeches, the way he talks, he speaks at a third grade level. Why? Why does he talk and dumb down his speech because he needs to reach the average American? How can this [\h__\h] billionaire with a silver spoon who's born with a silver spoon in his mouth get [\h__\h] down south and and and driving trucks F-150s to put a Trump flag on him, right? Well, he's got to speak. He's got to bring it down to their level, to the level of the common man, to the regular guy, you know? And the the average American reads at like a seventh grade level or something like that. And the average American's IQ is only a hundred, right? Which means that half the population is to the left of that bell curve. You get what I'm saying? So in order to galvanize them and to get them around, he has to bring his his speech down to their level. It's deliberate. You know, I I I know where he's from. You know, I lived in Queens for a m long and I know the people over there. they don't speak at a third grade level. You know, they use big SAT words when they talk, but he deliberately does not. And also, for example, when I did my YouTube when I started YouTube, you know, I I made sure I didn't speak trainer vault jargon when I'm talking to the people who want to who I wanted to sell fitness stuff to and online training to. All right. I could have I spoke at their level. I could have got on YouTube and said, "Yo, fat loss is a two-part pro process of lipolysis and oxidation." Lolysis is when the fat cell is broken down into fatty acids. And oxidation is when the fats is when your body uses those uh those uh fats those fatty acids for energy. And I could have just, you know, start speaking that kind of jargon, right? But it wouldn't be talking to the fat boy who needs to lose weight, right? it wouldn't resonate with him because that's not his language. So instead, I said, "Yo, you trying to get ripped so you can [\h__\h] some [\h__\h] right? And I spoke to the guy who I wanted to reach." If I spoke the other way, I'd only be talking to academics and people who study training and they're not going to buy online training from from me. You get what I'm saying? So, even when I teach my students how to grow their online fitness business and I review their content because I help them I help them grow their following. Every once in a while they get in there and they start talking about using they use they use words like, "Oh man, we need to increase protein synthesis." And I'm like, "Yo, you do you think that your your potential client knows what protein synthesis means? You know, why are you talking like that? You speaking trainer jar. Dumb it down and speak to the guy that you're trying to reach. Your vibe attracts your tribe. All right. The next thing I would tell my 20-year-old self is, "Hey, bro, don't try to understand women." Like, don't try to understand women. All you need to understand is that you don't understand, and that's it, right? They're all going to seem crazy to you, including your mother, your sister. They're all going to seem crazy, 100% of them, right? Because this it's diff it's going to be difficult for you to see the world through their vantage point, right? They have a totally different perception of reality than you. And it's not good or bad, better or worse, but you're just never going to see things the way they see it. And that's okay. All you need to understand is that you don't understand. And that's okay. But you'll have a better experience with women if you do these two things. One, screening. You have to screen for the things you want. Right? We We don't want to change a chick into the type of girl you want her to be. I see I see guys who they meet a girl and she's like dressing super provocative and he starts to like her and they start dating and then their boyfriend and girlfriend and then he wants to get her to stop dressing like that. I was like no man you should have scream for that. Like you can't make a cat bark. You get what I'm saying? Like don't try to change her. You got to scream for the right for the for the attributes you want. One of my other boys, he had been with a girl for like seven years and he said, "Yeah, man. I wanted to get her to start having threesomes with other women with me. And I'm like, "Yeah, I don't think that's gonna work." And he was trying to get it to work and she they would get in an argument. They got into a huge argument. And I was like, "Yeah, bro. You can have that, but you would have had to scream for that. You can't have that with her. You can't just change the rules seven years in. You should have screamed for a chick who likes chicks and is down to have threesomes with you and other chicks, right? She's out there. You should have screamed for it first, you know. Now, you can mold a woman like no woman's going to fit perfectly into the mold of the kind of woman you want, right? But if first you do screening for what what you think is appropriate and then what you want to do is you want to reinforce good behavior. For example, the way they train dolphins is is all positive reinforcement because you can't whip a dolphin. You know what I'm saying? You can't and dolphins don't respond to negative reinforcement the way like uh primates will. So, what they do is they catch the they catch the dolphin doing something right. Then they give it a fish and they keep uping the ante and rewarding it for things it does right until the dolphin starts to learn, oh, when I do this, I get a fish. When I do that, I get a fish. Right. And that and after repeated exposure to that, they have the dolphin jumping through hoops on command, jumping up and down. And then you see if you ever been to a dolphin show or the aquarium, after they do a trick, they get a fish, you know, and they train these [\h__\h] You can train your girlfriend like that, too, right? So, whenever my girl cooks for me, I like, damn, baby, what you put in this? It's so good. I don't lie to her, but I just make sure I give her mad praise when she does something right. Yo, yo, thank you so much doing all this laundry. I know it's mad [\h__\h] in there. Yo, thank you. Save me so much time, baby. I love you. Right. Really. And and I do appreciate that she does these things. But I make sure she knows I appreciate and I show my appreciation. And then that lights her up. It gives her it changes her state and it's like a reward. And after exposure to that, that's just what she does like the dolphins, right? So, I know breakfast will be ready for me at 10:30, you know, today because I reinforce that positively. And I mean it. It's not like manipulation. I mean, I guess you could say it's manipulation, but I do appreciate that [\h__\h] I really do mean it. And she is a good cook, you know? You can do that with anything, right? Like when when she gives you head, you need to be like, "Damn, but you you something so good. Oh my god." God. Like, how how' you learn how'd you learn to do that? Listen. No. Look, babe. What? You've been studying some film. You've been watching some porn, learning how to how to suck a dick good. Cuz whatever you doing, that [\h__\h] is working, right? Promise you. Do that once after you get hit, you going to get hit way more. You do it every time you get hit, next you know, that's going to be her default response. Sucking dick. I'm telling you, try it out. All right. Uh, the next the next thing I wish I knew when I was 20 is that money makes all your decisions. Like 100% of them. All right. From you, if you had more money, you'd probably be living in a better house. Maybe in a different city, maybe in a different country. You might have a different girlfriend. You you'd be wearing different clothes. you be eating different food, right? Money makes literally every decision you make is filtered through how much money you have, whether it's conscious or unconscious. That's why I get so mad when people downplay the importance of financial success. When they say money is not everything, I'm like, "Yeah, but it influences everything." You know, it's the closest thing to everything we have. we have, you know, and they'll say money is not the most important thing in the world. No, it's not. Oxygen is the most important thing in the world. Oxygen is by far the most important thing in the world because it's the only thing I can think of that you can't survive without uh after just a few minutes. Like you need a constant influx of oxygen all the time. Here's the thing though. we have so much oxygen in abundance is that we don't think about oxygen throughout the day. If your oxygen supply gets cut off, it will immediately be the only thing you're thinking about. And it's kind of the same with money. Like when you're super [\h__\h] broke and you don't have no cash, it's all you can think about. And I mean broke broke like you don't know how you're going to pay for food today. You know, you don't know how to how you're going to pay your rent this month. you know, your car gets repossessed, right? When you don't have money, it's all you can think about. Same with oxygen. So, what you want to do is you want to have so much money in abundance so you don't have to think about it. Like oxygen, right? You need to have enough so you don't have to think about, but it will still influence your decisions. See, oxygen once you have enough that you don't have to think about it, it stops influencing your decisions. Money never stops influencing your decisions, right? Because everything you do is a result of how much money you have, right? If you want to go to the amusement park with your children, right? How you get there is going to depend on money. You know what I'm saying? Like, are you going to are you going to are you going to fly there or you going to drive? You're going to make that decision based off money. And if you do fly, are you going to uh like I'm using part like Disney World? If you do fly, are you going to fly first class economy or private? Right. You know, I took my son to Disney World and we had the VIP [\h__\h] when I went, right? Are you going to do the regular [\h__\h] or you going to do the VIP [\h__\h] No, we skip and and then, you know, that's that's a diff that's a totally different experience cuz we wasn't waiting in lines for hours. Those Disneyland uh Disney World lines are [\h__\h] 45 minutes, an hour long, 90 minutes long for a line to ride a roller coaster that lasts a few minutes. We just skip right in front of him. I took my son there and we skipped right in front of him. And then we had a private we did the VIP sh with a a guide and then the guy was like, "You want to go on again?" He's like, "Yeah." And then we get back off for ride, get right back on it in front of everybody who's wait who's been waiting for 90 minutes, right? Is a different experience with money, you know, with what school you send your kids to. I send my kid to a [\h__\h] expensive private school or do you going to send them to public school with everyone else? You know, like what are you going to do? You know, all you don't do the best for your kids, you do the best you can afford. You don't do the best for your parents. You do the best for your you can afford. You don't do the best for anyone you love. You do the best you can afford. Right? Money is going to influence every decision you make. So I I just never downplay the importance of acquiring capital. Money is not everything. Money is not the most important thing. No, no, no. You need to take it seriously. Treat it like oxygen. You know, don't don't don't downplay. You got to prioritize it and then use it for good. Right? When when people say, "Oh man, all you care about is money." Well, how am I using the money? Am I using the money to improve the life of my family? Am I using the money to hire people, give them jobs so they can they can improve the lives of their family? You know, am I donating to a church or organizations, you know, take the charity [\h__\h] out of it, right? Even just on some regular [\h__\h] what are you using it for? Right? It's a positive. Just like a It's like a knife. A knife can be used to [\h__\h] go on a stabbing spree or a knife can be used to cut up to cut up food when you're cooking a meal for for orphans, right? It's how you use it. Knife's not good or bad. Same thing with money. It's not good or bad. It's how you use it, right? The next thing I wish I knew when I was in my 20s is everybody is living in a different reality than you, right? Everybody has a totally different perception of what's happening. I want you to think about it. The view from up here in this building is going to be different from the view on the ground. You're going to see this differently. You're going to see it like totally different. Which means you'll experience it differently and you'll have a different vantage point because you have a different vantage point. It's like that with everything. But so example, it's I uh some people think New York is dangerous, right? But maybe they have like a victim swag, right? As where I was living in New York. Uh and it was super safe for me because statistically guys, people over six foot tall don't get robbed. It happens almost never, right? Because predators don't look for prey. They look for I'm sorry. Predators only live for prey. They don't hunt other predators. You get what I'm saying? So when I'm walking around New York, yeah, I'm safe, right? Because I don't think people look look at me. If I was a criminal or evildoer, I wouldn't think, "Oh man, you know who I need to rob? You know who I need to start [\h__\h] with? Oh, he's perfect. The 6'2 black dude covered in tattoos. Yeah. Yeah. He what he's about 210 pounds, lean. That's the one I want to [\h__\h] with. Nah, predators look for prey. You know, lions don't hunt lions and tigers. Lions hunt [\h__\h] gazels and [\h__\h] you know. You out here. So, everyone has a different perception. So, New York's totally safe for me. You know, but let's say you're a young woman, right? You're not that strong. you [\h__\h] weigh 100 pounds or some [\h__\h] you're going to have a totally different perception of how safe New York is, right? You you worry, you might worry about somebody committing the r the rword on you. Ain't nobody ever going to rword me, you know? It's this doesn't work like that, you know? This doesn't work like that. So everybody, and the reason that's important is because it allows me to try to see things from other people's perspectives, right? So, I have friends on both sides of the political aisle. I have friends who've done campaigning for Bernie Sanders. I also have a friend who was arrested for storming the capital on January 6. You get what I'm saying? And the reason I don't hate people who think differently than me is because I I understand it. They perceive the world differently to me. They see things from a different vantage point. And it allows me to have compassion instead of calling them stupid or thinking they're angry. No, they just they're they're they're living a different version of reality than I am. Right. If you grew up in middle America and you know the middle of the country in a house, no crime, are you going to see the world differently than me who grew up in Chicago city full of crime on the south side and you got a bunch of homies who've been murdered or or or did mur or or committed murders. It's not me snitching on nobody every they're in jail or dead, you know. Uh, right. I'mma see the world differently than you, you know, and it's it's okay. We want to be compassionate. So, when I see a lot of the divide, especially over politics, it's just nobody's trying to see things from the other person's perspective. They just want to be right. They look at it like a team sport. And they get mad at each other. They start arguing with comments. I'm just like, man, everybody just sees the world differently, man. you know, and they because they had a different experience. And if we can be more compassionate, you'll be happier, right? If somebody's like somebody's super MAGA, right? Let's say they're super MAGA and they hear make America great again. Their perspective is things were better in the past. Like when you say make America great again, then it wasn't it's not good now, right? But maybe it's not good for them. maybe things were better for them at a certain point. I first when I first heard Make America Great Again be from a different vantage point having you know friends having um family members who grew up during the civil rights era getting marching with Martin Luther King sitting in back of the buses. I'm like [\h__\h] make America great again for who? It's never been better. It's never been a better time to be a black man in America. You know, a woman uh a woman might see that different. Well, it's never been a better time to be a w a woman. You know, I don't know this that that's kind of a rant and I'm not I I don't want that to be I'm not political at all. I just want to be clear about that. I'm u I'm politically agnostic. I'm an independent voter. I have some conservative viewpoints and I have some liberal viewpoints. I'm pro-choice. I'm also pro guns. you know, I'm a complex individual, you know. Uh, but yeah, that's something I wish I knew because it would stop me from arguing with people or getting upset when people think or feel something differently than than me. You feel me? All right. And the next thing I wish I knew when I was younger is that life is a game of tradeoffs. So everything every time you say yes to something, you're saying no to something else. And you have to be cognizant about what trade-offs you want to make. Like right now, I'm making this video for you, which means there's an infinite amount of other things I could be doing that I'm not doing. I made that trade-off. I could be at the gym. I could be waking my girl up to have unprotected sex with her. You know, I could be uh playing video games, right? I made the trade-off to do this right now. And it's like that with everything. Some things are big, some things are small, but it's always a trade-off, right? If you want to be a good father and a good husband and have a a long happy marriage, the trade-off you're making is you're not going to be an international playboy. You know, you're not going to be out here [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You know, if you're [\h__\h] [\h__\h] then you're making the trade-off. Oh, okay. I'm not gonna be uh a good husband or a good father or some something of that nature. Everything's g game. So, you got to be cognizant of the trade-off you want to make. So, I haven't had a cheat day in three years. And I made the trade-offs. I'm not going to eat the most delicious foods, which are probably candies and cakes, cuz they're engineered, snacks are engineered to be more delicious, right, than regular food. And I made that trade-off because I wanted to have the best physique I can have in my 40s, you know? And I didn't want the temptations of her cuz cheat days induce cravings, right? If once you stop doing cheat days, the cravings go away and it's easier to stick to your diet. That's something that I've realized for me, right? And I made that tradeoff. You get what I'm saying? Uh, it's like that with everything. You know, if I want to build my investment portfolio, that means my disposable income needs to go in my brokerage account or into my section 8 real estate properties. The trade-off is I I don't have as many Richard Mill watches as I'd like, right? Life is a game of tradeoffs. You get what I'm saying? So, you just have to be cognizant of what trade-offs you're making. And what's important to realize is that things that are good for you now or feel good in the moment are typically not the best feeling things in the moment. Whoa, I said that wrong. The things that that feel great in the moment are typically the things that aren't good for you long term. And things that don't feel the best in the moment are typically things that will bode well for you in the future. For example, uh you know, if I spend all my time getting high [\h__\h] [\h__\h] it'll feel good in the moment, but running lights are game of trade-off. So, I'm not spending that time, money, and energy building my investment portfolio, building generational wealth with my son. So that's the trade-off I'd be making, right? But because I I want to be have a ton of money for my son, build generational wealth, make it so him, his mom never have to worry about money again. Then, you know, even even when I'm gone, the trade-off is I don't get to flex as hard as I'd probably like to right now. Right? Life's a game of trade-offs. You know, you got to decide which trade-off you're willing to make. All right? These are just things kind of just random thoughts, things I wish I knew when I was in my 20s that I believe would have helped me a lot. Uh, and I hope it helps you too. I beats.