I think a lot of you guys are having difficulty accomplishing your goals or getting further in life. It may be because you are too ambitious. And what I mean by that is you may be attempting to conquer too many different fields simultaneously. You're trying to accomplish too many goals that are in different verticals simultaneously. And as a result, you spread yourself thin and you don't accomplish anything. You end up being a jack of all trades and a master of none. And I fell victim to this in my early 20s as well. So, a lot of y'all may know that I got signed to a record deal, uh, Sony Records, right out of college, 2004. They signed me as a rapper and producer. Their idea was, "Oh, he can be our Kanye West because Kanye West is from Chicago. He produced and he wrapped and he was super hot at the time." You know, I think uh College Dropout had just came out and it and Sony was like, "Oh man, we can get us one." He got one. And I I later got dropped when they merged with BMG. And during that time, I was still pursuing a career in music. I was still doing rap battles. That's how I got my deal. I was doing rap battles all around during college, all around the East Coast. We would drive to Baltimore for a rap battle. We would drive to Philly. Anywhere there was driving distance and it was a rap battle, we was on stage winning and losing rap battles, me and the homies, and like Eight Mile style. And I was still attempting to to pursue a career in music in some capacity, whether it was production, I was still making beats, still playing multiple instruments, guitar, keyboard, drums while adding other interests in, you know, I got signed to a modeling agency. I got scouted by modeling agency and next thing you know, I'm in magazines doing fashion shows. I'm on billboards while still attempting to pursue a career in music. And uh I started dabbling in the online fitness stuff, you know, making YouTube videos about fitness while simultaneously attempting to be an international playboy, you know, running around [\h__\h] models, doing all types of [\h__\h] uh and a number of other things, some of which I I won't get into uh for legal reasons, but I was into a lot of [\h__\h] And as a result, I never really excelled in any of them. Now, I guess I got farther than most people in most things. Most people ain't never had a billboard of themselves. Most people ain't never been in magazines or [\h__\h] famous models or or had record deals, right? So, not like I didn't accomplish anything, but not to the point where I may had a big breakthrough in any of those fields. Then my father kills himself, right? He he voluntarily leaves Earth. You got to be careful how you word these on social media. And then the recession came in '08 and that's I had to change and you know the story I don't want to rehash it but there came a point where I said damn man what if I put all my efforts into one thing and that was building my online fitness business and it took a lot of time because I was one of the first people to do that. All of us who were doing online training, let's call it 09, 010, I mean 09 or 2010, all of us were inventing it because there was no road map like nobody the prior to that the internet wasn't sophisticated enough to accomplish such a thing. And I went all in though. I stopped making beats. I stopped trying to rap. I stopped I I I I stopped going to castings. I said, "You know what? I need to go all in on this." And then as a result, I built a multi-sefigure business. And I think that's a lot of you guys's problem. you were doing what I was doing before, doing a lot of different [\h__\h] or attempting to be in a lot of different verticals that don't align with each other. So, what we need to do if you want to accomplish your goals is I think you need to set less goals. In fact, I think you need to have one goal. One main goal. Pick one main goal. And here's how you pick. Here's how you decide. What's the one thing that if I did it and went all in, it would make everything else I want in life easier or unnecessary? Right now, I got [\h__\h] money. I got some notoriety on social media. If if I wanted to drop the rap album now, it would do a lot better. If I wanted to put out the Midlife Crisis album, it would do a lot better. That's what I would call it, the midlife crisis album or something of that nature. And I don't know if people want to hear 43y old rappers. H I take that back. The clips should win album of the year. And TI just dropped a banger. Go check that out, man. Old heads is coming back. Pause. Big pause. I say that to say this, right? You've picked the one goal that will help that would make everything else easier or unnecessary, right? Cuz now I don't need to do that [\h__\h] to fulfill my ambitions. You get what I'm saying? And here's what you're going to do. You're going to pick that one goal and put everything into that. Now, here's the thing. Here's what's important. That one goal is going to have sub goals. So, there's things you need to accomplish to accomplish the main goal. And there's four types of sub goals, but they all work towards the main goal. The first goal that supports the main goal, the first category, I'm going to call this offensive goals. So, these are things that you need to accomplish or skills you need to acquire in order to accomplish the main goal. Cuz to make no mistake, your main goal should be outside of your current capabilities. Because if you set a goal that you're currently capable of accomplishing, it doesn't give you any incentive to grow. It doesn't make you grow. So let's say you want to be an influencer, right? But maybe you don't speak well. Like I'm not the best or in the world, but I used to be a lot worse. You know, I'm from Chicago and you know, Chicago was inhabited by a lot of runaway slaves. Harriet Tutman and them, you know, Chicago would take them to Chicago. That was one of the destinations. And as a result, a lot of us, a lot of us sound like legitimate slaves. And that's something I needed to combat in order to become better at making YouTube videos. And I needed to get better at making YouTube videos to build my online fitness business. Right? So these were goals that all led to accomplishing the same goal, the main goal. That makes sense. So for example, I knew I wanted to build my online fitness business. YouTube at the time was the best platform to do that cuz Instagram didn't even have videos or Instagram was wasn't even out when I started, you know, and editing would take the longest. And then I used to see guys like Elliot Ho who was my mentor and he would just talk to the camera like I'm doing now and just upload that [\h__\h] No edits. Maybe he throw his intro [\h__\h] on it on the beginning and no edits. And I did not have the capability to do that at the time. I did not have the skill. So I had to do what? I had to improve. I had to grow. I had to become a better speaker. I had to become more eloquent. and I needed to be able to speak with less filler words. I still use more filler words than I would like, but I've improved drastically. So, I used to say a lot of things like um like know what I'm saying. You know what I'm talking about? You heard me. all types of filler words and phrases that are normal colloquial slang, you know, in the place I grew up, Southside Chicago. And when I would go to edit the videos, I was like, "Yo, this is taking ever come cutting out these filler words." So, I had to improve. Again, I'm not the best. to a lot of people who speak significantly better than me. And it's something I still work on to this day. Whether it's improving my vocabulary, improving the way I speak, getting rid of filler words, being more comfortable on the camera initially. Nobody's comfortable on camera. We all suck. 100% of us suck initially when we jump on camera cuz talking to a camera is [\h__\h] weird cuz I'm really talking to myself right now. Y'all going to hear it later. This is strange. Human beings are not evolved to talk to cameras. So, I'm fighting Darwin out here. I say that all to say the sub goal was a offensive goal. I had to become a better speaker. Not saying I'm a good speaker or a great speaker. I had to become a better speaker so I can make better videos quicker, faster and be more prolific in my content production to grow my online fitness business. That was the main goal, right? So these are things you need to accomplish or skills you need to obtain in order to accomplish the main goal, right? The second category of sub goals are defensive goals. These are skills you need to accomplish or things you need to do that will prevent or block anything from obstructing your accomplishment of the main goal. For example, y'all know how like [\h__\h] be tripping like 100% of them. They're all crazy people. Women are like 100% crazy people. Your mothers, your sisters, all of them, right? So, you got to do certain things so your [\h__\h] don't get out of pocket too frequently cuz that can impede your hustle. You know, you start getting in arguments with your girl and you can still say whatever, [\h__\h] and go get to work. But now you're in a different state and your work may not be as good if you do it in an angry state. But if you're happy, things are going great, and then you do the same work, you'll in all likelihood, you'll perform that task a lot better, right? So, a a defensive goal is to be keeping your bench happy, and that can be accomplished in different ways. is, you know, making sure you have date nights, making sure you give give her the required amount of attention, you know, don't overdo it, but like make sure you give her enough attention so she's happy, [\h__\h] of that nature. And that could be a defensive goal. Protecting your relationship, protecting your health can be a defensive goal, right? You got to make sure you get enough sleep because if you out here tired, you ain't going to accomplish your goals or or you won't be able to accomplish as much per day or the quality of what you accomplish may not be uh may may just not be as good because you you did where you sleep. You can't be tired. If you're tired, you got to be re you might as well be retired. You know what I'm saying? So, taking care of your health, making sure you sleep. These are like defensive goals. Some of y'all, maybe it's a offensive goal. Maybe you need to get in better shape because one, you'll have more energy, people respect you more. Maybe you want to be an influencer. And being in in better shape, especially a fitness influencer, is going to bode well for you, right? But you get what I'm saying? That that could be a defensive goal, right? That's one side, the offensive goals and the defensive goals. But here's the thing. They're all in service of the main goal. See, now instead of having, for example, what I had a bunch of different goals that were in different verticals that weren't leading the same place, wanting to be uh a a musician, model, international playboy, fitness influencer, none of those things have anything to do with each other, right? So, I was scattered. But now, when you have that one goal, that central goal, the offensive goals lead to there, the defensive goals lead to there. But now on the on the other side, right, on this side you have offensive and defense. On this side, now we have results goals. And there's two types of results goals that all lead to the main goal. You can have selfish goals. I think you need to have selfish goals. Straight up. There's selfish goals and there are altruistic goals. I think a combination of both is appropriate to make sure you have the right motivation. So selfish goals could be like maybe you want a Richard Mill or AP or maybe you want man I wish I could show you it's a foggy day in Miami but maybe you want oceanfront condos right maybe you want to [\h__\h] flex on the haters and flex on the hoes. Maybe you want to [\h__\h] some better [\h__\h] Nothing wrong with those things. Those are your selfish goals, right? And we and I I think you need those things. You should want those things. And it may not be the same things that I want, right? Maybe you just want a a Ford F-150. You know what I'm saying? That's that's that's totally fine, right? Maybe you want a cottage somewhere, right? You don't have to want the same things I want. You get what I'm saying? You don't have to want the same things, but I I think you should want some things for yourself. You matter, too. Then you have altruistic goals. Again, both of these are on the result side. So these are things that will be a result of accomplishing the main goal. So if you accomplish the main goal, then for example, me growing my fitness business, I knew I'd have money to buy dope [\h__\h] and have dope experiences and upgrade my living uh situation. Get get out of Queens and and move to wherever else I want to live. I was living in Queens at the time. And then you have altruistic goals. Maybe you want to help people. Like I get a lot out of actually helping people accomplish their goals. when I was doing focus on online training, I probably had more testimonials during that time than I don't know. It'd be difficult to it'd be difficult to find a human being who has helped more people accomplish their fitness goals than me. I mean, I'm sure they exist, but we're a very small minority of people who have helped who have like hundreds or thousands of before and after testimonials, right? That and that makes me feel good because I've been a trainer since I don't know 27 years now. And I I know what that does for people when they get in back great shape. I know how that makes them feel. I know how that changes them as a person because it changed me. It got me out of some super dark times. And I I've seen it improve people's personality, improve people's uh relationships. I've seen it help them have more confidence. And then those people go out and improve other people's lives. Right. I I see that. And that that that feels really good. So those are part of the altruistic goals. And then maybe you want to give to a charity or m or maybe you want to save the whales or save the dolphins. That's cool. You can only do that [\h__\h] if you got enough cash. You know, like all that [\h__\h] cost money, right? If you want to help some cause every time there's a natural disaster, what they ask for? Money. They don't ask for, "Hey man, we just need all you guys to love yourselves and then, you know, we we'll all be better." No, man. They want some of that money, man. You need to get it right. But here's the thing, those are all can all be results of accomplishing the main goal. See, and once you have this, you have you have offensive goals, defensive goals, then you have result goals, both selfish and altruistic. Now, everything you do is congruent. Everything you do is is congruent. They either lead to you accomplishing the main goal or they are a result of you accomplishing your main goal. Right? Buy your mama a house. Maybe you want to do something like me is like pay all your mama's bills, make sure she don't never have to need or want for anything, you know, and you're going to have to put everything else to the side. So, as far as like music or whatever, it's whatever, man. Like, I'm not tripping. Some sometimes you got to do less so you can do more, you know? I'm not spreading myself thin. I still play guitar. still play keyboard sometimes, most mostly guitar. Uh, but I just keep one by my work desk and maybe in between meetings or, you know, so I I'll probably play for like an hour a day [\h__\h] around, but it's that hour is spread out, you know, like after I film this video, I have like 10 minutes before my next meeting, I might I might grab the Strat, start strumming some chords or solo right quick. But it's not like the main thing. just some [\h__\h] I do every once in a while. Yo, the [\h__\h] the sun is trying to peek out. Now everything will be in service of the mango. And I think that you'll find that you start moving a lot faster. You you'll start moving a lot faster and you'll accomplish a lot more. Now, one more thing you need to do is very important. Now that you got your goal set up, you need to spend four hours a day on something that will accomplish that main goal. Four hours a day on stuff that will move the needle. So, we're not talking about studying. If you want to study, you can do that, too, right? If you need to study, if you need to learn, then you can do that, too. But I'm talking about four hours a day of action, right? So, studying is going to be on top of that. Four hours a day of action. It doesn't have to be four hours every day. It has to be an average of four hours a day. So this is this this could might mean you you miss it one day, right? All right. Then you got to get let's say you miss you you can't work on your goal on a Monday. All right. So the next four days you got to work five hours so you get your average right back. Work on your goal for five hours. You get what I'm saying? Or you can do work [\h__\h] 14 hours on Saturday and Sunday on your main goal and and then you can work less during the week if you got a job or whatever's going on. But four hours a day, I've never seen somebody do that and fail. I've been talking about that for a while. Never seen somebody put four hours into accomplishing their main goal and fail. Like work that accomplish main goal. I don't mean study and watch YouTube videos. I mean work. If you can do that, man, it's going to be it's going to be difficult to fail under those circumstances because almost nobody does it, right? It's going to be super difficult to fail. I think you'll have a hard time failing straight up. All right. Uh if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business, like I I do got a free ebook. I'mma put it in the description where it'll show you how to grow your online fitness business and how to use AI to speed things up and automate a lot of things so you can do it a lot faster. Uh you can click that link in the description. I hope this was helpful cuz this was something that helped me a lot too, right? Really consolidating my efforts towards one central thing. It helped me get rich. I hope the same happens for you.