 Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace dreams of balling and shot calling, which have come into fruition and have become reality. In this video, I'm going to teach you why reading is important, how it changes your brain and your mind. We're also going to talk about methods to help you get more reading done, how you can read more and retain what you read. And I'm going to give you a bunch of book recommendations. So let's get into it. Why is reading important? Well, you don't have to just listen to me. Warren Buffett said that he reads 500 pages every day. He said, because that's how knowledge works. It builds up and it's like compound interest. So people talk about compound interest for money, but knowledge compounds as well is very important. Bill Gates says, I've always been an eager reader. Many of the books I read as a kid shaped who I am today. That probably would have hit a little harder before we found out he was on Epstein's Island. We want to steer clear of some of the books that Bill was reading. He was reading the freaky alman that Charlie Munger said my whole life, I've known no wise people who didn't read all the time. Charlie Munger died as one of the richest people in the world. One of the richest people of all time. He was Warren Buffett's right-hand man. And I can go on and on about successful people who talk about reading, you know, how does reading change your brain? First of all, reading does not just give you information. It physically changes the brain through something called neuroplasticity. Reading has been shown to produce measurable changes in the white matter pathways in your brain. Let me show you what I mean. Here's a study to back that up. You can read this shit on your own time, but basically it actually changes your brain structure in a positive way. And reading has also been shown to actually increase someone's vocabulary, spelling, and believe it or not, mathematics over time. And there's many studies that believe that reading can actually raise your IQ. Here's a study on reading improves vocabulary and mathematics. I shouldn't have to do a whole lot of convincing to tell you that reading makes you smarter. But one of the most important things, what starts to happen is you start getting information and you start learning different things, especially if you're reading nonfiction. What happens is when you go out and you're doing things in the real world, working on a couple of your goals, you have more ideas to pull from, which gives you more options. I want you to think of it like when you were a kid learning English as you were a child or a toddler, as your vocabulary was starting to advance, you could communicate better and you can probably get more things from your parents. I mean, you can probably get more things out of life because you had a better control of the English language. It's almost like that with ideas and knowledge, right? The more knowledge you start to accumulate, the more ideas you start to accumulate. It gives you more options to do things. A lot of times I'll read a book and I'll be so blown away from some of the concepts. I'll think, fuck, how did I make it this long without knowing this shit? I almost think that's the best feeling in the world. Cause it's like, I discovered something new that now I can apply it going forward. I go out of my way to find that feeling, to uncover new things. It's almost like when you unlock a new skillset, books allow you to unlock new skillsets. So I want you to think about it like a video game character and you're moving through terrain in the video game and you may unlock a new weapon or a new skill or some sort of motherfucking power up and it makes you fucking stronger and it makes it easier for you to beat that level, right? If I'm playing Mario and I get the fucking fire flower, now I can shoot fire and shit. Or I get the raccoon tail and now I can fly. Still haven't figured out why the raccoon tail makes you fly. No one's been able to explain that to me, but I'll figure out when I go to Japan. Oh, it's Logan Paul. He's been to Japan. I look at each book as a power up. Kind of like Super Mario. And it gives me more advantages as I move through my world, the real world. Because I'm trying to save my princess. I got a Dominican princess. I'm not trying to save Princess Peach. I save Princess Plantain. You feel me? Because my princess is Dominican. If you start playing with her, she throws trancletes and shoes at the enemy. But here's the thing. You can only get the power ups and you can only use them if you comprehend and retain the information you read. People always ask me, man, if you read so much, how do you retain everything you read? I'm going to give you some tips on retention. But the truth is, you don't have to worry about it that much. I'm only bringing it up because you guys ask about it so much. But like retaining is not as difficult as you think, right? I want you to think about a movie you saw before. Sure, you can't recite that shit word for word, bar for bar. But you know what the fuck happened, right? You know what it was about. You know the point of the movie. You know that Star Wars was about the space magic. It was about Luke having to learn to use the space magic so he can kill his dad and fuck his sister. You don't know every line of it, right? You can't recite the script. But you know the fucking, the gist of it. It's kind of like that when you read a book. Even if you just read through it, don't take no-nos nothing, you'll understand what the fuck happened. Don't make a fucking big deal about it. Now, here's the thing. Every once in a while, you're going to read a book and that shit's going to be a banger. And you're going to want to go back to it and retain more of it. For example, this is a book that called Deep Work that was really impactful to me. When I read through the book, so I would underline the parts that I thought was fire. And if I thought they was really fire, I'll dog ear the page. Like, yo, this book is super fire, right? So I'll put a little thing on the page right here. And I'll do that throughout the book. If I'm reading a physical book, I'm usually reading with a pen in my hand, right? So I can underline spots. Now, here's the thing. Let's say I might not go back to it, but this book, I re-read it. But now the second time I re-read it, I only read my outlines. I went through it like three times as fast. Does that make sense? So now you're going to retain more because of the repetition. If you got a kid under 10, that motherfucker didn't watch K-pop Demon Hunters once. Shit, no. That motherfucker watched that shit several times. I watched K-pop Demon Hunters with my son several times at the crib. Then we went to the movies and watched it just because of the repetition. I know all the songs. Everybody who's got kids probably knows all the songs just from repetition. So that's a part of it. Like first, one way to retain more is repetition. So you underline the books and then you can go through it and only read the parts that you thought was the most fire. And you can do the same thing with a digital book, with the Kindle. The iPad mini is my favorite e-reading device. I like it better than actual Kindles. I've had Kindles in the past, but the iPad mini is better in my opinion for a number of reasons. But one is because it's a fucking iPad as opposed to just a Kindle, right? So the iPad mini is probably my favorite e-reading device. And then I can, I have my Apple pencil. I can underline like that. The parts I think is fire. I can underline like, like that. So you can do the same thing when you're e-reading. Fun fact, e-reading is faster, significantly faster than physical books. I'm about to give you guys a cheat code, especially for those of you who read slow. If you buy the ebook, Kindle version of the book, and you buy the audible version of the book, a lot of times it'll actually do that when you're on Amazon. What happens is you can play both of them simultaneously. So it's almost like the Kindle is reading it to you, but it's highlighting the words that it's reading. That's a cheat code. So the best e-reader is the iPad mini. Now, how can you read more faster? You can do what I said, like get yourself an iPad mini. It also works on your phone, right? So you can have it read it to you. So it'll read the books and it'll play the audible at the same time. And the reason you can comprehend better with that is because two of your senses are occupied. A lot of times I'll be in the gym doing cardio on the elliptical machine doing this shit. And I have the ebook here and it's reading it to me while I'm doing my cardiovascular activities. So one thing I do is I always have a book on me. I walk around the city with one of the man bags, you know, the Prada one or the Fendi one or the LV one. I got several of them to match my outfit. And in those, I always keep something that has to do with the second amendment and a book. So I always have a book on me. So if I'm in an Uber, if I'm waiting in the waiting room at the bank or the iPad mini with my whole book library on it, well, most people will just start scrolling or looking at social media. I'll read during that time. And what's going to happen is you're going to get more reading done throughout the day. Also, I put in my calendar dedicated reading time. And it's typically in the morning, I'll read like 90 minutes every morning. And let me just reiterate, always have a book on you or your e-reader on you at all times. Now let's give you some book recommendations. I'm going to run through them. Obviously, I already mentioned deep work. This is for anybody who's hustler. If you are trying to become rich, anything entrepreneurial, this book should be like a foundational read. It's by Cal Newport. He has a popular YouTube page now. So he's getting, it's grown pretty popular over the last few years, but it's really just about how you can get more done in less time by learning how to focus. 48 Laws of Power by Robert Greene, one of my favorite books. You know, I actually have an interview somewhere on this channel years ago with me and Roberto Greene. This is like one of my favorite books. This is top five. Get this version. Don't get the big version, right? Get the little one. It doesn't have to be that long. Get this version. Get to the point, Robert. You also might want to get Pimpology, the 48 Laws of Game by Pimping Ken. This book is fucking good. It's not all about pimping hoes, right? The messages that Pimping Ken gives us can be applied to like all areas of life. I promise you, man, like just dealing with people in general. It just so happens that the author used to be a pimp, allegedly. I'm not trying to get this brother in no trouble. It's Black 48 Laws of Power. It really is a good book. Moneyberg put me on in that book. 80, 20 sales and marketing. Man, I read the shit out of this book. I done fucked this book up with notes and shit. You know, it's fantastic. If you run a business, in that business, you do some sales and marketing. It's a must read. The big homie, Dan Martell's book, buy back your time. We've had Dan on the pod a few times. Man, you know, when we had Dan on the show, he had under 100,000 subscribers. Now he's got 2 million. Motherfucker running laps around us. Shout out to Dan. He bought back some time, all right? The E-Myth. If you plan on having employees or if you have employees, you have to read this. This is a must read. It's going to show you how you need to structure things so the business runs like a well-oiled machine. This is mandatory rate. I met Michael before, man. Good dude. Pitch anything. If you do any sales in your book, I make all my sales people read this book. It's fantastic. It's one of the best sales books ever, man, by Owen Clabb. I've been on his podcast. Good dude, man. Hero. Expert Secrets by Russell Brunson. Hermozzi talks about how he loves it. This is a book that he reads all the time as well. When I was first starting my business, I kept his first book, Dot Com Secrets, like I kept it on me at all times, like it was the Bible, like it was a copy of the New Testament. Expert Secrets is a little more relative where Dot Com Secrets might be outdated at this point. It's really about marketing and copywriting. If I'm being honest, this is a copywriting book. Speaking of copywriting books, the best one ever is probably Dan Kennedy's Ultimate Sales Letter, right? If you need to write anything that has to do with sales, you want to read this book. Even if you say, man, I can have Chad GPT write my copy. Hey, look, bitch, nigga, you need to know what good copy is. Chad GPT will just fucking make some shit up sometimes. Jim and I will make shit up sometimes. Claude will make shit up sometimes. Straight up, right? So you need to know what good copy is. Another one is The One Thing. This is a book that was super impactful for me, right? It's really just about focus, really focus so you can achieve more and less. Letters from J.D. Rockefeller to his son. He's one of the richest men of all time. I don't know how much money he would have today if we adjusted it for inflation, but it'd be a shitload. Definitely one of the richest men ever lived. You want to fuck with this? Another one is Courage by Ocho. Ocho looks like this, right? He's like a spiritual dude, the leader of a Hindu tribe or something. You would think he's just like some poor spiritual leader and he's talking about courage. Nah, man. Ocho had 300 Rolls Royces. Let that sink in. That's how I want my spiritual leaders to be. This book is all about courage and how to have more of it because I know a lot of you motherfuckers want to go after your dreams, man, but you be pussyfooting, acting like a bitch, scared to fucking do anything. Read this shit, man. Stop being a fucking ho. Stop acting like a scared little girl. No disrespect to little girls of the world. Influence by Robert Cialdini. This is the best book on marketing and sales ever. It's not as tactical, right? So here's the thing. It's more about the principles around marketing and sales. It doesn't give you like the tactics. It gives you the overarching principles. It explains why tactics work, but once you know the principles, you can invent your own tactics. There was a time I read this book, reread this book every month. Every time I read it, I feel like I learned something new, something helpful. And then there's another book called Feeling Good. You know, it's really like a psychological book, man. It's about getting your mind right. If y'all know my story, you know, I dealt with depression many times in my life. You know, I've been diagnosed with bipolar 2 depression, and this was a book that's helped me out a lot with that. You know, so if you guys are struggling with anything mentally, this book will give you some tools that help you get through those tough times. But I got one more book. It's written by me. It's called The 7-Day AI Action Plan for Online Trainers. If you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business using AI, I wrote the best book on the subject. Those of y'all know me, my story, I made my first million dollars as an online trainer, and now I teach other people how to grow their online fitness businesses. AI has made it way easier for you to start your online fitness business, even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a lot of experience. This book will show you how you can utilize AI to still become a successful online trainer. The link's description is 100% free. Hit that link and download it, all right? Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace Ace