When I was little, my mom worked for an airline. And this was before the internet came out. I'm old. I'm 42. So when I was a little kid, like 80s and 90s, my mom was the person you would call to book a flight because we didn't have the internet. The internet wasn't ubiquitous back then. And people booked their flights by calling, right? If you wanted to fly somewhere, you called the airline, bought a ticket, and that was her job. As the internet progressed, the company kept laying off more people in her positions until she got we got to the point where they laid her off as well. And she basically just was able to take a early retirement. So, she had a a safe landing. And now there's still PE. You can still call the airline, but you know how difficult it is to get in touch with the airline now. If you try to call them, they they're gonna really really go out of their way to get you to talk to a robot. And it's been like that for a long time. But, you know, if you hit go through the menu, if you navigate through the gauntlet that is the menu, you'll eventually be able to get to a human if if that's something you require. This happened to a lot of people when the internet became popular. A lot of jobs went away and new jobs were created as a result. You know, more money was made, but the the people who held on to the old ways or the companies that held on to the old ways aren't in business. Right. seen it again with AI. So yesterday, the co-founder of Twitter, the founder of Twitter, Jack Dorsey, he he owns another huge billion dollar company called Block and they laid off 40 clo over 40% of their workforce yesterday. And he said it's not because we're having financial issues, a we're doing great. He said, "It's because AI has got to the point where they just don't need as many people to get the same results." And then right when Jack announced that, their stock price went up over 20%. To put that in context, the S&P 500 averages 10% increase per year. year. Block did double that in a day just by laying off half its workforce and replacing it with AI. What does that mean? The writing is on the wall. I've been trying to tell people this for a long time. If you've been watching my content over the last year, I've been telling you, man, this AI wave is coming and it's going to hit a lot of people hard. Pause. And it's going to be difficult and for a lot of people, you know, because I I really believe that companies are going to mimic this. They're actively trying to do it now. The technology keeps going to get better and better and better and better every year, almost every month. And there's only going to this is only going to happen more. And I believe in the next I don't know man, we might have a year. Some people say year, some people say two years, some people say six months. Nobody really knows, but there's going to be way more companies doing this. Way more people going to get laid off and it's going to present challenges and opportunities. So the challenges will be that and if you have a job where you work behind a screen at a computer, it's almost like it's the countdown, right? You really need to get your your in order for when your company decides to move in that direction. I mean, they probably already decided. They're just working on implementation right now and that's going to lead to just a lot of unemployment and it's going to be difficult for the economy. It's it's going to be it's going to be scary times. I've lived through a recession before. I know what it's like. I've seen 10% unemployment. I saw how bad that that was in ' 08. And we can see something like that or worse. because everybody who works behind the computer is is s susceptible to this. Now, there's still going to be some jobs like for example, for example, the people there's people working on these huge ships over here, these these yachts outside of my crib. And then there's a there's also a big I don't know if you can see it. It's a cruise there's a cruise ship over there right here. like that that that cruise ship has a ton of staff. When I go to the when I go to the heat games, there's a ton of staff there. You know, there's buildings being built behind me. We still need humans to do that cuz robotics is not at the we're pretty far away from AI doing things in the physical world. We we've got a long way to go before it's reliable. And so if you work with your hands, you're safer. But the middle class, upper middle class, a big part of the economy is built on knowledge workers, people who work behind screens, right? Because those people buy houses, they go to restaurants, they go on vacations. Like those are the people who go to the who visit these arenas. These are those are the people who visit who go on these cruise ships. Those are the people who own these yachts and you know or or or charter them. So those companies may struggle too as a result. And that's the scary part like what happens when more companies adopt this because block was rewarded for it immediately. the market spoke the the stock went up 20% in one day. So other companies are gonna other CEOs, you know, they have a obligation to raise the stock price for their investors. So they're going to if they they see the play, they're going to do it. So that's the danger and and I'll get into the opportunity in a minute, but that's the danger. And I and it's something I haven't been able to stop thinking about for the last I don't know two years. And I feel like I I'm telling everyone who will listen. I'm going out of my way to tell everyone who will listen, man. Hey man, this is happening guys. This is this is on the horizon. And you know what it feels like? It feels like in Age of Ultron when Tony was tripping. He oh man, there's a threat coming to the world. Something's going to happen. And that's why he had to build Ultron. It went it went wrong. But that was his plan. Like he couldn't stop thinking about it. That's how I feel. That's how I feel, man. I feel like a lot of us are in danger. Okay. And then there's the opportunity. The companies are doing this because they believe what? They're going to make more money as a result of using the AI. So, if you can't beat them, join them. If you know how to utilize AI, if you know how to harness the power, then you have a better chance of being on the right side of this because for example, that company still kept some people and it's do you think it's the people who don't know how to use AI? If AI replaced 40% of the a company, right, AI still needs to be managed and deployed. Do you think the people that got laid off are the people who know how to deploy it? No, those are the people who are able to stay. And if so, if you're an entrepreneur, learning how to use AI is going to be not beneficial, but a requirement to survive in this new era we're heading into. And when I say know how to use AI, I don't mean just how to ask Chad GPT What I mean is, you know, really knowing having a a firm understanding of prompt engineering, knowing how to get the best out of LLM, right? Knowing how to use image models, video models, AI agents, knowing how how especially agents, knowing how to deploy agents, how to do AI workflows, knowing how to master these things, because if you can do this in your business, you can really come up. I I think we're at an impre unprecedented time where the person with with little capital and not a lot and and a small team or no team can make real big progress like huge progress. For example, the there was a guy he he sat in his room by himself and he coded this thing called Open Claw and he was reportedly he put it out for free and he was a court uh reportedly offered a billion dollars from Open AI to join their team. This is one man one man built something and got a billion dollars for from it. You understand what I'm saying? He built an AI tool and made a billion dollars from it. This is unprecedented. I don't I don't know if there's ever been another example of anything like that. If if there has been, let me know. Let me let me in the comments. Is there another example of a team of one a one-man team building something and then getting a billion dollars for it? This is the opportunity. This is the opportunity. You can build a one-man project or or something with a small team and make a lot of money. And if you have a your current business, you need to adapt because the companies that didn't adapt to the internet, they're not here. Blockbuster Videos did not adapt. Netflix took them out. This is going to be hap this is going to happen to you if you have a business or if you want to be entrepreneur if it's not if it's not if AI is not baked into what you do there's no way you can win right so what does that mean for us if you want to start a business you want to be entrepreneur you have to have a AI focus going forward just in order to in order to compete also If you just want to have a job, if you have a a firm understanding, a firm grasp of how to use these AI tools, then you'll be in a better position because the people who are getting hired like fa man, Facebook is paying people like hundreds of thousands of dollars, sometimes millions of dollars a year to help them run their AI. This is this is the cheat code for a lot of people right now. All right. So, how do we use it? So, you know, I teach people how to grow their online fitness business. And what I've been teaching my students in high ticket trainer is how they can utilize it in their business. So, there's things that they can do to actually grow their following with AI, right? Because that's what that's how you make money as online trainers. You grow your following, boom, and then you you get leads and make sales. And then you have to train your clients. And the more people you can retain, the more money you can make, right? So, and because it's recurring, the business model is recurring. Every time you make a new sale, you give yourself a raise. You don't just make the sale right there and you have to keep making the same sales. No, no. You give yourself a raise if you can retain that person, the the people you have for longer. Okay? And one of the main things is AI is making it so much easier to retain clients. Like our my my students, their their clients are using AI workflows and AI automations to really actually give their clients a better experience, help them accomplish their goals, but they're retaining them way longer since we started teaching this. And then from the sales aspect, we we showed them how to set up AI automations and AI and use AI tools that can allow them to sell more people without work working more. And then as as as it pertains to making content and growing your following, you there are ways to use like AI content, right? But that's not the main thing. A lot of times when I post that stuff, it's kind of gimmicky, you know, just to get attention, you know, because, you know, as a trainer, you kind of want to post yourself, your physique, you know, show that you do it. Um, but what you can do is actually come up with ideas a lot easier with AI because, you know, one of the main things people have problems with is coming up with what to post, right? So, we have a way ways to use AI to automate that, help them come up with ideas, come up with scripts. Then there's ways you can use AI to actually um edit your content way quicker, right? stuff that used to take hours, now you can do it in minutes. You know, like minutes if if you know what you're doing, you know, and all this together, what it results in is what we've seen in our in our with our students is they're putting out way more content, getting more followers, and sometimes they are using like actually AI content on themselves because sometimes it's indistinguishable. post stuff here. Sometimes I'll post AI stuff here and sometimes people know, sometimes people don't. But sometimes what's been happening is I've been posting really me. Like it was really me. Like footage that I filmed and people say it's AI. We're at the point where it's difficult to tell. It's difficult to tell what's what. And if other people are doing it and it's difficult for them to tell, you're gonna be a disadvantage if you're not doing it, you know. So these are the things that I'm thinking about. These are the things that I'm I'm constantly thinking and and also even in my my business, my main business, high ticket trainer, it's like I'm not hiring people. We're growing, but I'm not hiring people. We're using AI automations. We're using agents. were using um different AI infrastructures to be more productive without hiring any any people and then with you know and we had some people leave recently and we haven't been felt compelled to replace them with other humans. we just use AI to manage their workload, you know. So, you know, the these are things you need to think about, man. Because here's here's here's here's what's going to happen. If things get really bad in the economy, which it looks like it's it's on the horizon. If things get really bad because there's so many like white collar knowledge workers get laid off, that's going to present a lot of opportunities to people who have money. like a lot of opportunities whether it's investing in real estate because you know people are going to have to get rid of their houses. They're going to be selling their homes. They're going to be lowering their expenses contracting. Some people are going to get foreclosed on and and you'll be able to get real estate for the low for the cheap and you invest in that. Boom. You set for life. You get enough real estate. Same thing with the stock market, right? some of these companies. If we if the economy is real bad, we're probably going to have a stock market correction. We're due for one anyway because it's been running up so crazy. We're due for a correction. It may and it may be sharp. May be sharp. It may be sudden. And if you got a lot of bread, then you can invest, buy the dips, sit on that for a while. And then when it once we acclimate to the new normal and starts to come up, man, you you make millions. Like real real money. Like if you if you could get close to the bottom and you can put in some some LEAP call options on companies or ETFs that that you feel like are really that really have a lot of growth potential and you you can buy shares too and you can come up man like you we're talking like 10x returns like that's the kind of we saw in08 that's kind of we saw briefly in co, you know, you can really come up if you do this right. And the these are the things I'm thinking about. How can you come up in a way where you have enough money to take advantage of opportunities once hits the fan? And how can you structure your life and business in a way where you have the resources to survive through these times and how to come up during these times and it's going to be difficult to do it if you don't own your own business, right? Because you as you can see that companies want to do more with less people. Even me, I want to do more with less people. It just makes sense from an economic standpoint. So, these are the things I'm thinking about and and I can't stop thinking about them, right? So, listen, if you want to learn more about how you can use AI for your online fitness business, I'm doing a live training this Sunday at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. I'm really going to break down how you can use AI to grow your online fitness business. Use AI to grow your following. Use AI to make more sales. and how you can use AI to actually train your clients so they get amazing results. All right, hit the link in description. Join me this Sunday. It's gonna be lit.