I'm 42 years old. I've really achieved what most will call a staggering level of success, especially because I came from nothing Southside Chicago. I would have got here faster with less pain and less struggle if I knew the things that I'm going to teach you in this video. So, in this video, I will break down the lessons I wish I knew in my 20s and 30s that would have helped me become more successful faster. Definitely want to stay tuned for the last one cuz that's a game changer. Number one, all power comes from discipline. If you want to succeed in anything, any arena in life, health, fitness, relationships, even family, got to have a high level of discipline. The amount of discipline you have will determine how successful you can become. Discipline means you do what you're supposed to do when you're supposed to do it, whether you feel like it or not. That's a lot different than motivation. Sometimes people ask, "How to get motivated? How do you get motivated? How how can I get I need motivation." Motivation is cool, but motivation is a is an emotion, right? And if you're reliant on it, it's going to fail you sometimes. If you can train yourself to do what you're supposed to do, when you're supposed to do it, whether you feel like it or not, then you'll be more successful because that's what discipline is. How do you get more discipline? Discipline is like a muscle, like these almost 19in pythons, but they're like any other muscle. So, the more you use it, the stronger it gets, and the less you use it, the more it atrophies. So, in order to become more disciplined, I want you to reframe your mind. Every time you're supposed to do something, but you don't feel like doing it, I want you to think, here's an opportunity for me to flex my discipline muscle. Here's an opportunity for for me to get some reps in on my discipline muscle. That's the only time you get to actually flex that muscle. Cuz when you're motivated, you want to do it. So, you don't get to work the discipline muscle cuz you're using motivation. But when you don't want to do it, now you have to use the discipline. If you do it anyway, what's going to happen is next time you're in a similar situation when you're supposed to do something and you don't feel like it, it'll be easier for you to make the right decision and do it. If the next time you're supposed to do something and you don't do it, it's going to be easier for you to quit every time after that. You'll be working your [\h__\h] [\h__\h] muscles cuz everything you do is is habit forming. A lot of you guys have built up a lot of [\h__\h] [\h__\h] habits over the years. Now it's easy for you to be a [\h__\h] under those circumstances. It's your default response to challenge being a [\h__\h] And then you do something even more sinister. Like let's say you're supposed to go to the gymnasium or you're supposed to work on your business and instead of doing it, you do something fun instead. You play video games. You start smoking that OG zaza cush. Here's why that's so sinister. Cuz now you're training yourself to be a [\h__\h] even more. Because think about an animal. Not like a a creature, but like a pet that you have in your house, a household pet. Let's say you got a little dog, little doggy dog, and you want to train the dog to do something. When it does it, you might give it a little treat, you know, and then it starts, it'll do that thing more cuz you gave it a treat. You were supposed to go to the gym or work on your business, but instead of doing it, you did something else. You didn't go and you gave yourself a treat for it. So, what do you think you did? You trained yourself to be a [\h__\h] the same way you trained that little dog. You rewarding yourself for not doing what you're supposed to do by doing something fun. We want to do the opposite. We want to start building our discipline muscle. So next time you're in a situation, man, I don't feel like doing this, reframe it. Say, this is opportunity for me to build my discipline muscle. This opportunity to become stronger, more resilient, and that's going to impact you throughout your whole life. The next thing I wish I knew when I was a young punk ass [\h__\h] like you on 50 Cent sophomore album, The Massacre. He has a song called Rider Music. And at exactly 2 minutes and 30 seconds, Curtis 50 Cent Jackson says, "You hustling backwards if you chasing the chick, stupid. Chase the money. they come with the [\h__\h] And I heard that. I just thought it was a funny line. But as I got older, I was like, "Yeah, that's that shit." And I didn't get it because I was like super handsome when I was your age. But the thing is, you still have to put in more effort than if you were like super rich. And I don't think I understood that until I got super rich. It's different. Women, all humans treat rich people differently. Rich people aren't chasing anyone. People are chasing rich people. They're trying to not even just get money from them. Like it's almost like they just want to be around rich people. They want to soak up some of that rich [\h__\h] energy. It's it's that it's it's kind of like that thing. Would you take 500K or or dinner with Jay-Z? A lot of people's out here saying, "Yo, I would take dinner with Jay-Z just to soak up the game." A lot of people saying now those people are stupid. There's a reason they ain't got 500K. I'm rich and I'll still take the 500k. They want to be around that energy and it's just different, man. People just want to be around you when you're rich. It's different. And women are like, it's not even like they're gold diggers. Like regular chicks are still more excited about a rich [\h__\h] than they are about a regular [\h__\h] Two guys, they could be twins. Same in every regard. One's rich, one's regular. Who's you going to pick? It doesn't make her a gold digger. She picks the rich one. It makes her a sensible human. If your girl had a twin exactly the same, would you pick her or the version of her who's a billionaire? It's different, man. People treat you different when you get money, and it's difficult for you to understand unless you get the money. The next thing I wish I knew when I was little, there is no problem that can't be improved or solved with enough money. Even health, people say health is the most important thing. Studies show that wealthy people live longer. They can get the best food. They can get the best health care. My father killed himself. He shot himself in the head when I was 24. I don't know what the amount is, but there is an amount of money that if I had it, I would still have a dad. If I was a billionaire, I don't think he'd have killed himself. I think he he would have saw some light at the end of the tunnel. We' have figured something out. My therapist that I used to see, she said, "Oh, you you shouldn't think like that." And I said, "Shut up, [\h__\h] It's true. I made sure I would never be in a position where I couldn't help out my family or anyone I love that they needed." My my cousin, we grew up together. Right about 2 years ago, he died in a car accident. I couldn't solve that problem of money, but few days later, you need 20 grand for a funeral. Who going to pay for it? his daughter in like private school. She got to drop out now cuz they ain't got the income or can she stay in school? Yeah, I pay for it. Cuz money makes all your decisions. You don't do the best you can for your family. You do the best you can afford. If you have kids, you don't do the best for your kids. You do the best that you can afford. You don't send them to the best schools available. You send them to the best you can afford. Money makes all your decisions. And the more money you have, the more freedom you have. You're not wearing the clothes you want to wear. You're wearing what's available, right? And that's all of us. And the happier you will be. There are studies that show the more money you have, the happier you are. They used to think people get happier up until 75K and that was the cap. But new research came out that people get happier even past 75K a year. I mean, yeah. And you are more likely to have more depression if you are in a low income. That leads me to the next thing I wish I knew when I was a YN like you, man, before I became an OG. Money doesn't buy happiness because it's not supposed to. Happiness is an emotion. Money's job is not to change your emotions. Money's only job is to be exchanged for goods and services. Your emotions are your responsibility. I'm a multi-millionaire now. However, I was still happy when I was struggling. You don't get make money to get happy. You get happy and make money. You control your emotions. Money is going to magnify who you are. If you are a dick or an [\h__\h] you get some money. You're going to be more of that. If you are a nice person, generous person, good, kind-hearted, helpful, you're going to be more of that. When I was broke, I was making videos to help you guys accomplish your goals, you're on YouTube. Make more money now. Hey, I'm still doing that. Now, we just got a higher production value. I got like eight cameras on me right now. One of them is moving. It's [\h__\h] sliding around. Look at this [\h__\h] Ain't nobody even doing that. Diddy was a jerk and a crazy [\h__\h] before he got rich. you got super crazy. It just makes you more of who you are. The next thing I wish I knew when I was younger and your age is that time is your most important asset. It's actually more of a weapon. We need to weaponize time. Your success will be a direct direct proportion to how well you use your time. We all have the same amount of time each week, 168 hours every every week. And it's important that you you squeeze as much success out of each day as possible. It's the only way to speed up success. And you can do that by weaponizing time. You do that with your calendar. I didn't really start succeeding until I started planning out every hour of every day in my calendar. I use Google calendar every hour of every day. And that way my day is choreographed. I promise you do this for a week. You'll be shocked at how much more you accomplish each week. You do that [\h__\h] for a month, it'll be your mo I promise you it'll be your most productive month. You do that [\h__\h] for [\h__\h] 90 days, you can you will literally be unrecognizable. And if you do it for a year, you'll change your whole life. No matter where you are right now, you will change your whole life. And I had to learn this after my father killed himself cuz it was like 2008. It was during the recession. Even though I had a college degree, I couldn't get a good job. We had record unemployment. So I just started working labors and I was working like four different jobs. I trained people in the morning and then I worked security. After the security job, I would work for a movement company for a few hours. On the weekends, I trained people in the morning. I was the weekend manager at a restaurant. I was still working on starting my business, you know, my online fitness business. The only way I was able to get enough sleep during that time, still train, get all that work done while not neglecting my health and working on my goals was I I got serious about my calendar and I planned out every hour of every day. And it took a lot of sacrifice. It's like I get a few hours to work on my business here and then a few hours there, a few hours there. And then when you started weaponizing your time like that, you will be shocked how much more you accomplish. Even now, I I think in terms of what I can accomplish per hour versus what I should do. It's one of the reasons why I've been reluctant to buy a car, right? Because if I'm driving, I'm not doing anything but driving. But I said, I just get in Ubers, right? I take Ubers everywhere and I work in the Uber. I take calls in Uber, meetings in Ubers, cuz I'm trying to weaponize every hour of every day. Next thing I wish I knew, if you don't sacrifice for your goals, then your goals become the sacrifice. You're sacrificing either way. So, you can't avoid sacrifice. You're either going to sacrifice your goals or you're going to sacrifice temporary enjoyment. What should you sacrifice in service for your goals? Well, you should not sacrifice your health. You should not sacrifice sleep. You should not sacrifice training. You should not sacrifice your family, right? Cuz that's what people always say when I talk about working super hard. They say [\h__\h] like, "Man, but you know, f I want to spend time with my family or I want to get sleep and I want to take care of my health." No one's telling you to sacrifice that [\h__\h] I'm telling you to sacrifice the other [\h__\h] Remember, I was planning every hour of every day on my calendar. Guess what wasn't on my calendar? Video games, television, gooning, the [\h__\h] You sacrifice the [\h__\h] So during that time in my life when I was really working on coming up, I missed a lot of like barbecues, parties, night life. I don't think I went to the theater to watch a movie, didn't watch any basketball or football. And I'm black. You know how difficult that was for me? It was okay because I just remembered like this is a sacrifice I'm making in service of a bigger goal. If you accomplish the goal, you can go back and do those things. But it's it's called delayed gratification. A sign of maturity is the ability to delay gratification. Babies, toddlers, they have zero impulse control. They want [\h__\h] now. And if you can't sacrifice what you want now for what you want most, it's really just a sign of immaturity, like you're behaving the way like a a young child were. Last season, I was going to basketball games, courtside. I was sitting courtside at basketball games. Me and my me and my boys, we went to a comedy show. We saw the homie Theo Von. We got a whole suite for like five of us. You can see like 20 [\h__\h] but it's five of us. We lounging. We chilling. When I fly, it's first class everywhere. When I go on vacation, I get a better version of it. Now, if you can sacrifice now, you can get a better version of this [\h__\h] that you sacrifice later. You either sacrifice for your goals or your goals become the sacrifice. The next thing I wish I knew when I was younger is the importance of money velocity. Every month you have bills. You got to pay those bills every month. Every billing cycle, when your bills are due, it's important to make as much money as possible between billing cycles. You want to make more money than you need before the bills are due. And you have what? Surplus. And that surplus is what you're going to use to get rich. The way you get rich is you make more money than you spend and invest the difference. You have a window to do it every month before the bills are due. On the [\h__\h] first, it's like the clock starts over again. You got to make 2,000 at least $2,000 to live. I'm just using example. But if you can make $3,000, now you got a surplus. You can invest that $1,000, right? If you can make $4,000, you got a $2,000 surplus. Here's the thing. If you were to invest, let's just say $2,000 and invested every month in a simple investment like a S&P 500 index fund, which has a annual return of about 10%. If you invested $2,000 into that every month after 20 years, you'd have $1.3 million. And if you wanted to increase the amount of money you you you make over time or make that money faster, then you got to either increase how much you invest every month and or invest in a vehicle that has a higher return. But it's all about the velocity of money. The amount that you'll be able to invest, it depends on how much money you can make between the first and the first. It's the countdown. This is where planning every day in your calendar becomes important because you need to understand that that you if you had that urgency to make as much money as possible between the first and the first, then you'll have more money to invest. And then when you start investing, that money can start to grow, start to compound. You need to make as much money as you can as fast as you can every month between the first and the first. And you think of it like a race and you got to wake up every day with urgency. My girlfriend laughs cuz she hears me wake up. She said, "Man, when you walk when you wake up, you jump up and then you like almost sprint out the room." I'm like, "It's the countdown. I got to get as much success as possible today." The next thing I wish I knew when I was younger is the power of compound interest. Like I used to always hear, you know, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world and all that other [\h__\h] I didn't really start investing until later and I wish I started investing a lot earlier cuz I'd be a lot richer, a lot faster. There's three things you can invest in. Stocks, stocks or crypto, I guess, right? Real estate or your own business. Those are the main things you can invest in, right? Stocks, which is investing in someone else's business or crypto, right? Whatever. Real estate or your own business. Annualize stocks and real estate have an average return of 10% per year. Your own business could be you're always going to get the highest highest return in your own business. So, when I first started investing, I was investing in my own business, right? I was working all those jobs and I would invest in my own business. That's where I was getting the highest returns. And I could actually see it once I learned how to do Facebook ads and YouTube ads. I can actually see, oh damn, if I put this much money in, I get this much money back. Where in real estate in stocks are more passive. With your own business, you got to work. That's why you get the highest returns. It's also the riskiest though. 80% of businesses fail within the first 5 years. Somewhere between 5 and 10% of businesses ever make it to the point where they're making over a million dollars a year. So, it's very low odds. I've had uh two businesses. I took two over a million dollars a year. You know, once is luck, twice is skill. Because it's the riskiest. That leads me to the next thing I wish I knew when I was younger. Always be learning. Always be studying. One of the things I did right is when I was around 19, I started reading for like 90 minutes to 2 hours every day. And I was in college then. So, I would outside of college like I was reading like books on business, books on personal development. And this [\h__\h] really helped me out. There's some guys on the internet who say don't read books. And maybe those guys are smarter than me. But if they're smarter than me, they're definitely smarter than you. But they also must be smarter than Warren Buffett. He says he spends most of his time reading. He became one of the richest men to ever live. Bill Gates says similar thing. Elon Musk, he devotes a lot of his success to reading and studying. And he is the richest man in the world. Success leaves clues. There might be some guys on the internet saying don't read and buy their course instead. I will say that there's different ways to actually digest knowledge. Now, at one point, reading was like pretty much the only way, but now you can go to you can you can you can actually buy courses. People hate on courses, but I learned a lot from courses. You do audiobooks. I listen to a lot of audio books. Even YouTube videos, like YouTube videos, like you're learn you're learning right now. These are new mediums, but you just always be learning. Like, every time I I work out, I always have headphones on. And people think I'm listening to NBA Young Boy. Now, I'm listening to [\h__\h] Brian Tracy. I'm not listening to Lil Baby. I'm listening to Lil Tracy. Throughout the day, I'm always listening. If I'm walking somewhere, if I'm going somewhere, anytime I'm on the move, if I'm not talking to another person, I'm studying, listening to something else. I keep this iPad with me all the time. And this has my my Kindle on it. This is one of my preferred ways to consume content. Now, if you buy the Kindle book and you buy the audio book, you can do something really cool. You can open a book and then you it syncs up and then it could it'll read the book to you. Hold on. Like, check this out. Doesn't have to be selfish. In fact, the best marketing never is. Marketing is the generous act of helping others become who they seek to become. It involves creating honest stories, stories that resonate and spread. You're involved in two senses, right? So, I'm reading it. That's your visual sense. And then I'm hearing it auditory sense. Studies show that you actually retain knowledge better because you're more focused. You're not getting distracted or anything. I can also I'll take notes in here. If I see something I really like, I'll take notes in here. I use like One Note, Microsoft OneNote, and that way it syncs through all my devices. It's lit. The next thing I wish I knew when I was younger, a lot of y'all ain't going to like this one. Staying sober will make you more productive. There was a study that came out. It was a big meta analysis and they said there was no safe level of alcohol consumption for brain health. Right? People say, "Oh man, maybe it's moderation, right? Y just do everything in moderation." If you care about your brain health, the studies show there is no safe level of alcohol consumption. And I know there are people who smoke the people who get high all the time and drink and they're still successful for sure. You really just got to ask yourself. And then what I asked myself when I quit doing all this stuff, it's like, am I really trying to be the best I can be or am I trying to see what I can get away with? Right? Some people can get away with it, but are they succeeding because of that, or are they succeeding in spite of it? And how much more would they succeed if they didn't consume recreational drugs? It was about 10 years ago. I wish I did it earlier. I I quit all recreational drugs and all alcohol. Man, I'm not missing nothing. If I go to a function, it's actually better. I'm I'm networking better. I stay I I I stay on my P's and Q's. I don't make no stupid mistakes. A lot of y'all have done [\h__\h] drunk or high that you regret. That doesn't happen to me. A lot of y'all get drunk one night. You're not as on point the following day. You can still survive and you can still function, but are you functioning the best you can do? You really got to ask yourself, are you trying to be the best you can be or are you trying to see what you can get away with? You that's a question you got to ask yourselves. Again, if you're not willing to sacrifice for your goals, then your goals become the sacrifice. you're not putting my the odds in your favor. And if you do succeed, you will succeed in spite of that, not because of it. It's definitely not helping you. If it's not helping you, then what is it doing? It's hurting you. Some people say, "Man, Brandon, how do you have so much energy? Always so enthusiastic. How do you get so much done each day? I'm not getting high every night. I'm not getting drunk at night. I ain't did that [\h__\h] in 20 years." You know, I don't think it's a coincidence people say that I look a little younger than my age. Getting drunk does not help you. Everyone I've ever met who looked really really young for their age does not drink. Her grandma lived to be like 96, never drank, never smoked, she looked a lot younger than she was. Like quite literally poison. Are you trying to be the best you can be or are you trying to see how much you can get away with? Cuz those are two different ways to approach your goals. Speaking of goals, if you really serious about accomplishing your goals, I got another video you can watch all about goal setting and planning your goals. Because what's super important is you have goals is you got to plan them out, right? And you got to have deadlines for every step. And I show you how to do that in this other video.