Pattern interruption. Yo, what up? What up? It's your boy Big Brandon Carter and Bella and Bella in the house. All right, so check it out. A lot of y'all know I've been training on my uh combat kickboxing Mu Thai [\h__\h] And uh I suck. I still suck at it, right? But that's why I hired a a coach, you know, like to get better. So, you know, every time I post these and y'all going to take this journey with me, man. So, everybody talking [\h__\h] about how much I suck now, wait a few months. Wait a few months. So, anyway, uh Bella filmed this session uh with me and my trainer, uh the homie Joe. Uh I'll put his link in the description. You want to follow him on social media and [\h__\h] He's a badass. Like, he's a real fighter. Like, he's got like fights scheduled to come up. Like, he's gonna be in the cage punching and kicking people. Before we get into that, let me show you the transformation this dude sent me on Instagram, man. Dude sent that to me, man. Dude got ripped. Ripped. You know what I'm saying? He changed his whole life, man. If you would like to make a similar transformation, uh, click the link in the description cuz we got some information for you. You know, wouldn't you like to get ripped like him? Wouldn't you like to finally accomplish your goals like this dude did? Would you like to take your physique to the next level? Yeah. Click the link in the description, man. We'll help you out with that. But anyway, let's get into this. So, anyway, he first he he wrapped my hands. you know, he wrapped my he wrapped my beautiful hands up, man, cuz we don't want to hurt him, you know. So, he wrapped my hands up. Then he he got me some red gloves cuz, you know, red is my favorite color. So, then we start to jump rope. So, I'm jump rope and it's like, how's it go? And then, so like I'm getting a little better at the cross, a little better at the cross, double unders. I'm still getting a little bit. He gave me this thin ass rope because I was late and he said, "All right, now you traded." So every time I messed up, it hit me and it would like it would [\h__\h] hurt, you know, cuz it's like wire. So anyway, started with jump rope to warm up. We did like that [\h__\h] was like 10 minutes of jump rope, right? It was a long time. So then we started working on the kicks. He wanted me to do them slow. He said, "Do it like you don't even care." Like like you don't even care. Like you don't like be wanted me to be lazy at first, then we sped it up and we started doing it like faster. What he says is it takes 10,000 kicks, you know, to be really good. And I think Bruce Lee said something once, I don't fear the man who knows 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who did the same kick 10,000 times, you know. And uh Bruce Lee was pretty good at martial arts from what I understand. So then we worked on the left kick, which is weird cuz I had to switch and then kick. Ah, and that [\h__\h] was so awkward for me, man. I looked so awkward and felt awkward doing it. So I just had to do that a lot more. Then we worked on the push kick. Is that what was called the push kick or the teepee or tep? Am I saying that right? T, you know, and uh he had me working on that. First, he had me like stretching like on that on that thing. I couldn't get my leg, you know. I'm not as flexible. So, anyway, it's a kick stretch. Yeah, it's kick stretch. Kick stretch on the on that wood pulse. Then he held the things and I did the TE. Then I did the TE followed by the what's that kick? The Cuz he had me going roundhouse. By the roundhouse. He showed me that the TE is kind of like a jab for the leg, like a leg jab, right? And it's kind of He showed me like how it's effective when the [\h__\h] trying to run up on you, you can te and then do the, you know, back don't back the [\h__\h] off me, man. So, I'mma like I'mma use that. I'mma use that. If one of y'all [\h__\h] run up on me, you getting teeped. You getting teeped, man. You getting teeped. Then you showing me how to check kicks, right? Like like um what's that do from you ever play Street Fighter 2? Uh, no I haven't. I mean I I used to play games like that but uh Yeah. Yeah. I you know um that's the last video game I played Street Fighter 2 for Super Nintendo and I was like uh and you know he I was blocking blocking the kicks looking kind of silly but but I'm learning. But yo like when he hits when I check his kicks I feel like I'm still getting hurt cuz he's been like working on his shins making them hard as hell for like a long time. So, you know, still got some work to do. But we went back to punching and we just was working on the combos. We was working on the combos and that [\h__\h] was, you know, I was real tired by then. Then then we did the little reflex that the reflex, what's it called? The reflex bag when the bag is from the top. Yeah. The little reflex bag. So, it was like a little bitty bag and it was connected to the top and to the floor and then we both punch. I punch it then he punch it and I punch it. He punch it. And the thing is like it works on your timing and coordination because when it's moving like this thing is moving like in a sporadically so it's hard to it's harder to hit right. So like it works on your coordination and your speed. Then we went over to the speed bag and I suck at like traditionally my whole life I've sucked at this and I wasn't You tried it a little bit too. I know it was uh it was crazy. Yeah. You have to get a hang. Uhhuh. You said something about pulling the rope. Pulling the rope. I got I I got some more work to do on that. But yo, this time next next year uh in the comments, "Oh, you suck, Brandon. You stiff. You can't do [\h__\h] nigga." And all that is true, right? But uh that's why you This is why you practice. This is why you practice. I just want to show y'all that like even though I'm awesome at a lot of things, I'm not good at everything, but you know, it's like it's about it's about life. Mhm. Is really about going out your comfort zone, right? That's the only way you grow, right? If I only did stuff I was comfortable with, lifting weights and handstands and and hit cardio workouts, I would never really grow, right? But as you expand, like I'm expanding other areas of life now. I got like tons of employees now. That's kind of new for me. I'm expanding with this, developing my skill set. So, growing and learning is not just reading and studying. It's doing different things, right? Reading is great. You guys know like, you know, I read two hours every day. If you watch me on Snapchat, follow me on Snapchat, Killer Carter 187. If you follow me on Snapchat, Killer Carter 187. Yo, if you follow me on Snapchat, Killer Carter 187, you'll see that I like I post like, you know, um the [\h__\h] I'm reading every day, you know, and but we also post these workouts. The thing is, I could have read. Reading is great, but I could have read about kickboxing. And that doesn't mean I'm going to be able to [\h__\h] use that [\h__\h] right? You got to practice. You can learn. You can read about swimming, right? But that but you're not going to know how to swim until you get in the water, right? Start splashing around. Can you swim? Yeah. Yeah, I can do that. Yeah. Uh-huh. You're pretty good. Do you think I can swim? Do you think I can swim? Like, yes. I mean, from what I've seen, you you can survive. surviving in the water. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Depends on who you ask. But uh what the [\h__\h] am I talking about? Oh, right. So, yeah, follow follow me on Snapchat and you you can watch the journey live, but we also also going to keep updating this every week because I I I go I go see my my trainer two three times a week and we just do kickboxing. you'll get to see the advance and it'll be cool to look back at these videos when I suck and then see how much I improve within a year or two, right? And then that's that'll be like for you guys. If you suck at something and you're not good at anything, it takes time, man. You know, everybody's every master was once a student, you know, every mass every guy who's exceptional was once a novice, you know, all the elite was was once a noob, you know, and that's just where I'm at in this part in this particular journey. So, I'd like you all to take it with me and hopefully inspires you to go out and try new things and expand yourself and grow. But anyway, uh oh, I'd be remissed if I didn't show you guys some of these new transformations we've been getting. This dude sent me this transformation on Instagram. You know what I'm saying? Let's get this. Yeah, man. Bam. He got this dude got ripped. It's uh Kit K. on Instagram. He got ripped, you know, and uh he says, uh, "Yo, thanks for the advice. You changed my life. I'm now a certified trainer and he's teaching others." You know what I'm saying? Like, uh, check out this dude. Uh, this dude did. This is 9 months. He's a new person in nine months. Kind of like how you can make a new person in n kind of like how you can make a new person in nine months. He made a new person out of himself in nine months. You know what I'm talking about? And it's uh, thanks Brandon for your motivation. I've been following your workouts and you motivate me to get my ass in shape. Watching your Snapchat, doing your morning cardio inspires me. Snapchat's killer Carter 187 uh to wake my ass up and start my day. Thanks, brother. You know, he got cut. He got ripped. Listen, if you want to get cut, if you want to get ripped like that, like those fellas, click the link in the description, man. Take the Bro ass transformation challenge. Like like I said, I'm I'm over here doing new things. I'm putting I'm I'm trying getting out of my comfort zone. Maybe so I can grow. Maybe you can do the same thing, man. Wouldn't you like to do the same thing? Wouldn't you like to expand and become a better version of yourself, you know, and and and and finally accomplish your personal and physical goals? If so, click the link in the description. We got some [\h__\h] that'll help you out. Anyway, peace. How rip do you want to be? This is a serious question. How ripped do you want to be? What supplement do I use? T- rats. 100% natural fat burn. It's not a magic pill. Ain't no magic pills, man. If it was a magic pill that you could take it, put in the ground and it'll grow beantock and you go to heaven. I'm not going to try to tell you this is magic. You just eat these pills and you don't get ripped. You got to put in the work, but when you put in the work, you want to make sure you can get the most out of it. And that's what I use T-Rex for.