Let me show y'all the leg workout that I've been using at home. It's basically I'm trying to increase my vertical jump lately. I've been playing basketball a lot lately, you know, and um I can't dunk anymore. I used to be able to dunk when I was like when I was younger. You know what I'm saying? And um come up a little short when I dunk. When I try to dunk now, man, I'm 6'2. I should be able to dunk and I haven't been able to. So, I'm going back to the workout to the leg workout I used to do back when I was dunking on these moves. I'm starting with deadlifts or squats. I would probably do squats if I was in a regular gym. Big squat rack on my back, on my neck. I do deadlifts cuz that's what I have here. That's what I'm able to do. I follow that up with with kettle bell swings. You know, kettle bell swing is dope because it's like it's an explosive movement. Explosive movement like when you're jumping. Then I'm doing jump squats. I take the dumbbells, put them to my side, you know, I got I got like 35 pound dumbbells and I hold them to the side and I just do I do a full squat like butt to the floor and then jump up in the air. Then I'm doing jump lunges, weighted jump lunges. I take the dumbbells, put them to the side, and do lunges like I would, but instead I jump. When I alternate legs, I jump. And that's basically it. It's four exercises. I'm doing three or four sets of each exercise. I'm doing each exercise a failure. I'm not counting reps cuz I never count reps. But even if you don't want to dunk, this is just a good leg move. Pull put a little bit of that muscle mass on your legs and your lower body. you know, it's great for your it's total it's great for your calves cuz the jumping is going to engage your calf muscles, your quads, hands, glutes, the whole nine. It's uh and if you don't have yo, for real, if you don't have weights or you don't have access to any equipment, you can fill up a book bag full of books and do do as many as you can. Do instead of kettle bell swing, instead of kettle bell swings, do [\h__\h] book bag swings. You know what I'm saying? full of books. I mean, the deadlift is what's going to be hard to do. The deadlift is going to be hard. It's really not a substitute for that. But, you know, [\h__\h] it. Do just do jump squats, jump lunges, book bag, kettle bell swings, book bag swings, whatever you want to call them. I just made that [\h__\h] up. It should increase your vertical jump and help you put on some of that muscle mass. Heat. Heat.