Heat. Heat. Yo yo yo. What's good man? What's popping everybody? What's up? What's up? What's up? You know what it is. You know I'm do this the callin show. We got the link in the description. You jump in, talk to me live, answer your questions. I've been doing this the last few days. Something I do off and on. People seem to enjoy it. Y'all said I should do it more, so I'mma do it. And it's cool, you know. Uh, hit that link and join if you already uh, you know what I'm saying? If you want your questions answered, want me to help you out with any problems you may have or some [\h__\h] you know what I'm saying? It's the link in the description. Also, yo, man, come on. Did y'all see I don't know if y'all saw on Victory Talk last week. I said, "Yo, you can bet that United States is going to attack Iran." Y'all see it, man? I said it. I called this [\h__\h] once again. Once again, I'm right. I'm correct. You know what it is. Also, yo, listen. If you're trying to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook for you. It's called The Ten Commandments of Online Training. The link is in the description. It's 100% free and it show you how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you don't have a big following, even if you don't have uh even if you're not certified. All right, click the link in description and I send and you can get that joint for free. What's going on y'all? What's popping? What's popping? All right, what's good? What's good? What's good? What's good? What up? What up? What up? What up? What up? What up? What up? What up? What up? Oh, man. We got somebody in the waiting room, man. Let's bring Marcus R to the stage. What's popping, homie? Hey, what's up? What's up, uh, Brandon? What's going on, bro? Um, I just needed some I come to you for like money guidance. So, uh, I just, man, I You're gonna laugh. You're not laughing, but just you're gonna be like, "Bro, what's up?" Like, you're you're play you're going to be like, "This is crazy." But like, I'm 27. Okay. I mean, I got my own apartment, but it's just like I'm not I'm not like how you are like, you know, you're you're balling, but it's just it's just I just need some help. Like Yeah. Yeah. Can Can I give you a rundown on like what's going on? Like Yeah, man. Let me know how I can help, brother. Yeah. So, I mean, I just got a dog. I just got one job. That's it. And one job or one dog? Did you say dog? No, no, no. Do my bad. I mean, job. No, that's even better. That makes more sense. All right. Yeah. So, I'm just I'm trying to like No, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. I'm working. Yeah. I'm considering working on or um Yeah. Like I'm pretty much working on getting, you know, um more jobs, but it's just it's it's pretty hard to find I don't know like like cooking jobs like um Yeah. But it's just um where you live? Los Angeles. LA. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard to find. So it's hard to find it's hard to find a job there. Just cooking jobs because I I have like a lot of cooking experience. That's like my main thing is like cooking cooking. So like um Yeah. And it's like I'm not making that much but I'm not making that much money. So I just I just need What are your goals, man? Goals um my goal is to um you know like eventually move to somewhere like a nicer area. You know move to a nicer area. you know, make make I want to make like at least five like I don't know like like realistically like at least 7K a month like you know like 7K a month. All right. Yeah. 7K a month and you want to move to a nice area. What where area? Where are you talking about? Maybe like you know near Santa Monica or you know like somewhere somewhere in LA you know somewhere really nice. Yeah. Santa Monica is where I used to stay when I was in every time I used to come to LA. All right. How much you make how much you making now if you don't mind me asking? No. Like it's embarrassing. You You really want to know or uh I mean I just want to know where we at so we know how to get you know what I'm saying? Like I like the GPS I need to know the starting point to help you around like 1K. 1K a month. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. No. No. That's why I said that's why I said like you know this is I need help. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, what do you what do you do for work now? Uh, I'm a cook at a at a at a restaurant. Japanese restaurant. All right, cool. And they only pay you a thousand dollars a month. How do they get away with that? There's a lot of C. There a lot of there's a lot of workers there. So, you know, they can they can they can, you know, Yeah. Just not everyone there gets paid a lot either. So, you know. Jesus Christ. Yeah. All right. And um Whoa. All right. Um, how you living, man? like how how you how you surviving off that? I'm not even I'm not trying to clown you in no [\h__\h] like that. No, it's um well, my rent subsidized. Uh yeah, you know, getting help from uh from like an from like some place, you know, they're helping me, but it's it's an apartment, but it's it's not like in the like the nicest area in LA. So, I got you. But, uh you know, I I mean, I have, you know, I I feed myself. by uh I have internet, you know, it's like but I'm not I'm not like I'm not like you like you know you're bing you living in a penthouse and [\h__\h] like you know I'm not like well every every start somewhere man you know um so like ain't no shame in that you know how many hours uh uh a week are you working uh around around uh like 35 35 hours a week and they only Jesus Christ yo you quit that job like I Why don't you get just a different job? You trying You You're working on getting a different job. Yeah, I'm working on I'm working on getting like at least another like two jobs. Like it's it has to happen, you know? How you been? How have you been going about it? I've been I'm looking for jobs now. So, it's like I'm I'm work I fix my resume up and honestly I got like a couple jobs, but then they just like they they're like, "Oh, like some one of them wanted to pay me under the table." And like I just I wasn't I wasn't like they didn't even around and stuff. So, like no, I I couldn't Okay. Let me let me When you say when you say you're looking for a job, what does that look like on a day-to-day basis? Uh on a day-to-day basis, it probably be like, you know, um fill out um at least 10 applications, something like that. But I haven't been doing it really consistently to be honest. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so here here's the thing. Everybody, every time somebody tells me they're working on getting a job or want to get another job, um the people who end up succeeding, they do what I'm about to tell you. All right? And end up succeeding in getting that job is you got to treat getting a job like a full-time job until you got one, right? So, I mean, like putting in 30, 40 hours a week of looking for a job. You get what I'm saying? like like going that hard because when you say you put out you do sound like you doing it here or there you it don't sound like you going like you you getting aggressive enough right like and again I'm not trying to clown you or nothing but like yo like like get aggressive because if if like let's say a family member was kidnapped or something and you had to get a job by the end of the month that that paid you more you probably figure it out. You know what I'm saying? Like you probably figure it out, you know. So that mean and if you believe that Well, do you believe that? You believe you'd be able to figure it out if like somebody you cared about life depended on you? Yeah. Like if I had to come up with some money or else they're like, you know, Yeah. No, they say you got to get a job. You got to find a job in the before the month is over or this [\h__\h] gets it. Yeah. I can't I can't have that on my conscious. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So you so we understand you can do it. It's just Yeah. You don't want it as bad. You don't want it bad enough, right? Or you're not acting like you want it bad enough, right? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So, so fact that you can do it. Cool. You're not a punk. You're not gonna let your family die, right? I like it. So now you What would that look like? Oh, that look, man. You going hard like how Yeah, that's what I'm saying. What would that look like? Then let's say let's say these the rules. He got the gun in your hand. He's like, "Yo, but you still gota you still got to sleep seven hours a night and you still gota and you still got to go to your other job." So now we got right now we got limitations. You think you can still do it or this or this family member dying? Nah, he not dying. I'm doing this. Okay. So what So what does it look like? You know what I'm saying? Okay. So, so, so I'd have to like I do what I did to get this job, which is, you know, I'd get print out a resume and literally go to the store, go to the place and and give them the resume and then like, you know, like go to like tons of tons of places. Yeah. How many would you go to per day? 20 30. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So, like if you start approaching it with that kind of veracity and that that that amount of intentionality, I think you you'll get some different results. Yeah. Yeah, you know, you you really got to I mean, these a question I ask these are questions I ask myself when I'm when I'm working on accomplishing like, all right, man, if my life depended on the or the life someone I cared about depended on me accomplishing this, but I still had to take care of my other responsibilities and still had to sleep and take care of my health and all that, right? What if I could I still do it? Yeah. Then what would it look like? Uh, right. But yeah, but another thing is like uh I do Yeah. But the only thing is like um like keeping the job too, you know what I mean? Like it's like just staying the course. That's another that's I mean I'm staying here but it's like you know it's just because I get along with everyone there. I'm just wondering like how would it be in a different place you know like you want to come up right. Just don't worry about like who I'm working with or not like or working. Well, listen. The the key is, man, the key the key to like coming up financially or getting rich or all in anything, right? Just in general, you got to make more money than you spend and invest the difference. And over a long enough period of time, you'll be you'll be rich. If you do that for a long enough period of time, you will be rich. The thing is, you're not making enough, you know? So, like the first number one is to is to get that get a job, a second job. You got a car? I'm getting one right now. I'm I'm getting one. I'm gonna get it really like within two or three months. Yeah, man. It's like um let me ask let me let me let me see let me see something real quick. Real quick. Let's let's just check this out because Yeah, maybe that's the key to get a new car, right? You know, and uh that that can probably help you. Hold on. Let me see something. How much does the average Uber driver make per month in Los Angeles? It's tricky to give an exact number for Uber drivers monthly earnings in Los Angeles because it changes a lot. Things like the time of year, how many hours they work, and even what part of the city they drive in can all make a big difference. But if you want a general idea, sources online say the average Uber driver in LA makes around $3,600 to $4,500 a month before expenses. And how much do they make after expenses? That's where it gets a little tricky. After you factor in gas, car maintenance, and other expenses, the take-home pay can be quite a bit less. Some sources suggest it could be anywhere from $2,500 to $3,000 a month. It really depends on how fuel efficient their car is and how much they drive. Yeah. So, I mean, the reason I asked that because if you get if you got a whip, then you can just start working, you know, you work at your job 40 hours and work some then when you're not doing that, you can be driving Uber. I was in a Uber, man. I I got a Uber and like a nice Tesla picked me up. I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] it's nice, man." I'm talking to the dude and this [\h__\h] was a doctor. He was just like, "Yeah, man. I just need some extra money." Yeah. So, I mean, that that could be an option, you know, but you definitely can't sit around being broke. No, that's it hasn't changed. Yeah. Yeah. But but yo, you gota honestly what I did when I was in your situation, right, in in a way worse economy than this, bro. You know, I I worked I just worked 80 hours a week, man. I had multiple jobs. So, I was doing like labor. I was, you know, anything I can get labor, construction, and then, you know, then I had uh I got it to the point where I, you know, store I had four jobs in a row. And that's when I like I got to the point where, okay, I was I was training people in the morning, then working security, and then working for a moving company, which is hard as [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? That was like the worst [\h__\h] job. And that was seven days a week. And on the weekends, I managed a restaurant in Queens and trained people in the morning. And I did that for two years, but I kept my expenses low, right? And I was making like bread, you know, because I was working so hard. And then I had a bunch of money stacked up after two years of doing that. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. That's what you got to do. And then when you got that money stacked up, then you can like start investing it in the stuff that that can uh help you improve your situation, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So, so like for the investing part, like can do recommend any courses or something like that? Like you ain't even there yet, homie. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like, like, yo, you got to do phase one. You know what I'm saying? Like, phase one is get is get some [\h__\h] bread, you know? Yeah. Like, really do it. And then you gota you probably going I mean judging from where it sounds like you're at you're probably going to do that for like a year or two like work like yeah work super hard for like a a year or two and keep your expenses low like stay where and then then you can start in then you can worry about investing man but it's like like you probably don't have a lot of savings right you making $1,000 a month n so like [\h__\h] you gonna invest with man like you know I don't mean that to sound derogatory it's just like yo man it's just you got we We got we got to take reality where we at and do the best we can with what we have, you know? Yeah. So, step one is like start working and um and 80 hours. You don't sound like you went to college. And I don't mean that because you sound because you got because you only because you you can't find a job. That's why. No, I I didn't go. I didn't go. Yeah. Yeah. All right, kids. All you kids talking about you don't want to go to Everybody with this kind of story didn't go 100% of them. Just remember that, you know? So, like, yeah, you might not need college to be successful, but if you go to college, the floor is not as low. You know what I'm saying? You got you got a higher threat. You know what I'm saying? Like getting to the point where it's like [\h__\h] you know? Like we're in a situation that's kind of like this. You know, it's difficult to end up in that situation with a college degree. The only reason I was in that situation is because the [\h__\h] world economy collapsed in 2008 and [\h__\h] mad almost everybody was out of a job. Like we had highest unemployment rate since the depression, right? But um but I I I digress. I just wanted to talk to the other dudes. You know what I'm saying? But like for you like we are where we are, right? So like you still work your way out of it, right? because it was my college degree couldn't help me because I was in the middle of the the [\h__\h] global financial crisis. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, you just gota you in that phase. I was right there too, right? Just gota 80 hours a week, homie. You know what I'm saying? And if you can't if you if you can't get an multiple jobs, if you if you not able to get multiple jobs, then work one job and drive Uber that other time. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. And then you might to do that for like a [\h__\h] year or two till you got some bread and then the next step is investing, right? Yeah. I know you like kind of jump a little ahead, but like how much would you save up? You know, man, first of all, like I want I want I want you you got it first half. Did you ever check out the the NBA accounting? It's not the NBA account, the [\h__\h] baller mindset course. I have a uh Oh man, you should go through it because it kind of breaks it down. All y'all can get that. It's it's in the my discord, but the baller mindset course. So, the first thing you need to do, you my friend, is you need to get like six months of living expenses. Okay. [\h__\h] hits the fan, you know? So, like it sound like your living expenses are about a thousand $1,000 I would imagine, right? You know, somewhere around there. So, like you just need $6,000 that you can just put aside where [\h__\h] hits the fan because you don't want to raise your living expenses, you know? Um, you ain't there yet. And then after that, you know, you know, if you got like 10, 15 grand, then you can start investing in some stuff, man. You know, you can start investing in maybe some then you can start learning about like real estate and [\h__\h] you know, and start doing doing [\h__\h] like that. And if you can get that might be a good start or or the stock market, you know, um stock market you can start investing with any amount of money, you know. Um and it's easier because you can do it from your phone, you know. Uh yeah, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You gota you gota let's get you gota start. So what's the next step, player? What's the next step? What we doing? What we doing tomorrow morning? We're gonna we're going to print some resumes out. We're going to go to the We're going to go to the the the places that, you know, where they need cooks and Yeah. I'm just gonna I'm just going to show myself, you know, this is me. I'm g uh, you know, get the job and start working 80 hours a week. Yeah, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure, man. Get that get that second job, you know? Don't quit your first job yet, though. You know what I'm saying? You need that second job right now. And then maybe if you can get enough you know, to save us some money. And your first investment might be a car, right? Because you can use that to like do Uber Eats or [\h__\h] uh Uber or some [\h__\h] you know? Start getting some getting some extra income. Yeah. Yeah. Because you you GBT, man. That was Gemini, but she was saying that, yo, man, the average in LA on average they making like after expenses two to threek, you know. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Thank you. No problem, brother. Let's get it, man. Keep us posted. Let us know what's up. Okay, I will. All right. For sure. Peace. All right, y'all. So, check it out. Check it out. Yo, this the call-in show. I'm out here answering your questions, helping you solve your problems. You know what it is. All you got to do is hit the link is in the description. Also in there, something called the Ten Commandments of Online Training. And I know a lot of y'all want to learn how to grow your um your online fitness business. That's how I made my first million, right? And the ten commandments for online chain will really point you down the path of making that happen, right? You know, give you the game plan and and let you know if it's even right for you because you might go through that [\h__\h] and be like, yo, I don't even want to do it. You know, or you might be like, yo, this is perfect for me. I love fitness and I love helping people accomplish their goals. I something I want to do for a living. So that'll be a good uh read for you. You might find it uh super helpful. All right. So uh the links in description, ten commandments of online training. And yo, if you if you're ready to jump on screen, go ahead and click that link where you can join the stream. And let's get it, man. Let's let's man say let's talk about the elephant in the room. Hallebertton. Uh well, you see how Hallebertton came up off that first off that [\h__\h] first war. They came up, man. And Dick, the homie, uh Dick Jeny, vice president. He used to be the CEO of Holler Burton and they had so many government contracts. He made what this dude make, man. He made I think he his his stock options that he had from when he CEO went up like I think they said 3,000%. You know what I'm saying? So there's a lot of money to be made in war. That's what I'm saying. Are we taking off our shirt and look Max? Nah. No. No. You keep your shirt on when you on stream with me. Yo, last time I did it was mad people in the waiting room, but there's no one in the waiting room now. So now we just talking, man. We just we just doing this [\h__\h] man. We just out here, you know. Oh, you met Hallebert. You met the NBA Hallebert. Maybe I I hope that's I think that might have been what he meant. He might have been talking about Tyrese, man. Oh, yo, I might have just took it there. I'm just I'm just thinking about war and making money off war. I'm thinking about over thinking about Dick Cheney. We talking about Tyrese Hallebertton. Yo, bro, I'm super upset that uh T that uh Tyrese Hallebertton got um got hurt because, you know, ever since Not Like Us came out, Kendrick Lamar dropped Not Like Like Like Us, it's been difficult for for us light-skinned brothers. You know what I'm saying? It's been We just been taking L's. He took out Drake and my favorite rapper JCole [\h__\h] some of the some of some some of the top lightkins. Steph Curry got hurt, who was the king, you know what I'm saying? Was another light-skinned king. Then Jason Tatum got hurt. Another light-skinned king. Now Tyrese is hurt. It's not looking good for us. It's not looking good for us, man. It's not looking good for light-skinned brothers, man. But, um, you know, the year is not over. The year, you know what? We we had the super we, you know, we, uh, what's his name from the Eagles won the Super Bowl, so that that was a bright spot. What's good? What's good, man? We got at Elf. What up, elf? What's up, man? I might be saying it wrong. What's up? What's up? Can you hear me? What's good, man? Yeah, man. You got some chicken, man. What you eating, man? Turkey. Turkey. I was close, man. Home. Uh, sorry from work and um really it's an honor to talk to you. Um, you know, appreciate that, man. I got a lot of inspiration. Thanks, brother. Okay, we can't hear you no more. Silent now. Oh, what about now or no? You good now, man? You good now. Thank you, man. I appreciate that. So, um yeah, definitely an honor. And um uh just came back from work. That was funny what you said about the Uber driver being a doctor. Um so, I'm a doctor. Um I'm 42 now. I'm from Queens, so every time you talk about Queens Yeah. Yeah. I grew I not grow up but I lived in Forest Hills for a minute long. Uhhuh. Yeah. Awesome. That's that's awesome. Um I guess my just to make it um brief for the for the viewers. Um basically I have a lump sum right now of just cash in a high yield savings account that I want to put into investments. And long story short, um the the what I'm gathering is that you should put if you're going to do a brokerage account, you should put it into like a three fund type of index fund. One that is stocks uh like V S&P and then the other is like a international um stocks and then the other portion into bonds. So that's what I have what I'm thinking. But I must be dealing with a lot of money, man. Because only only [\h__\h] who dealing with a lot of money even thinking about bonds. Yeah, because it's it's low risk, you know, and lower risk. So you like a lot of diversification there. Um Okay. Yeah. So what kind of doctor are you, man? Um primary care HIV. Oh, okay. All right. That's what's up. You HIV? Yeah, HIV as in the virus. I'm still getting that math. I thought I thought y'all killed I thought y'all cured that. We're We're in the 2030s. It's going to be done because of everybody. You ain't hear you ain't heard We ain't heard about nobody getting HIV in a long time. I I see it a lot though. But anyway, you know Yeah. You know what? When I had a cat real quick, I know it's off topic. I had a cat and I had to get the cat a AIDS vaccine. Oh, really? Okay. Or HIV vaccine for the cat. You know, when I took I was like, "What? My cat's not gay. All right. Anyway, no. My fault. That was in poor taste. But I did have to give him a HIV vaccine. I was like, "Yo, they need to make one of these for humans." There's there's a skit on there's a skit on hi on SNL about feline AIDS. Anyway, that's hilarious that you All right. All right. Okay. So, yeah. So, the question is, is is that a good diversification of income? I mean, of for investments. Yeah. I mean, I think that's great. You know, the especially S&P 500. It's a weird time to invest in in the S&P 500. Uh because I'm looking at Let me bring up a chart right quick. Uh, sure. If I bring up the chart of let's call it, it's like I mean, yeah, you can't you can't go wrong. You you should probably start dollar cost averaging because like if I look at it right now, it's Oh, I'm not sharing my screen. My fault. Let me share my screen. All right. All right. Right. It's like at all-time highs. You know what I'm saying? Is that It's like close to all like alltime highs was like in February, right? So, we're close to alltime highs. And um I mean it might it can it can still go, right? It can still go. You know, the market seems to be, you know, pretty happy with what's going on. So yo, listen. I like I definitely And instead of spy, yeah, V is a little like cheaper with the fees, you know. And then you said you said you said you said index fund like VO, you said what else? You said bonds. Bonds for like a small percentage 20%. Yeah. And um and then international highrisisk more higher risk. What do you think? International. That's the part that I don't know like what you what you thinking about what you researching. Yeah. Um I forgot the name of the index fund, but it's like it's something in Vanguard that's international just stocks. It's got you. It's just like a basket of international stocks because like because some of these countries are doing weird like Germany's been [\h__\h] going nuts, man. Their their market. It It's been going nuts, man. It was just at all-time highs on [\h__\h] Thursday. You know, Germany [\h__\h] is doing great. And Japan [\h__\h] was doing pretty good. It was just at all time highs, but you know, it's been it had been flat for a long time, but they were just at all time highs, Germany and Japan. Um, and you know, that's ominous sign, you know, both of them to we don't want them getting the band back together. You know what I'm saying? We don't want them [\h__\h] popping at the same time. But uh yeah, I don't know what what the what the index one is because sometimes I'm looking at different sectors, you know, Japan, uh this is Brazil, but yeah, I mean, I don't know about that one, right? You know, I I don't know, but the spy is is definitely good. If if anything, I would pick, you know, if it was me, if it was me, I I like putting money in the S&P 500 and it's something you could just dollar cost average in all the time. just keep I don't know if I would dump up the whole lump sum in there, but maybe you know um you could and did you just keep dollar cost average in it? But uh I would pick some individual stocks, you know, and and also listen, I've heard like some smart financial people say 1% into crypto or Bitcoin, you know, it's volatile. You know, this [\h__\h] goes all over the place. You know, this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] goes all over the place. But like 1% of Bitcoin and you can and you can use the Bitcoin ETF, right? It's AI bit. Okay, this is not the right one. This is short. There it I think this is one. I might have had the wrong one, but there's there's a Bitcoin. You can pick one of the Bitcoin ETFs. That's Bitcoin short. Or but you can also pick some individual stocks, man. And like there's some individual stocks that I like a lot. Like um like if I was looking like for some long-term [\h__\h] individual stocks I like, man, I mean it's kind of I don't know if I would buy right now, but I had been I'd been a big fan of Netflix. I don't know if I'll buy right now. It's like just under alltime highs. Excuse me. Um yo, this [\h__\h] crowd strike it just hit. It's like it's a weird time to start investing, you know, because everything's at all time highs, right? Like Crowd Strike is one I like a lot, especially, man. You know, I don't know. I would wait till like a dip a dip and then maybe go on the Crowd Strike because, you know, cyber security is is going to be big, you know, with all the conflict going on in the Middle East. Like, not it ain't all gonna be bombs, you know. It's a lot of cyber security [\h__\h] and that's what they do. Crowd Strike does that. Um, yo, this company, man, has been going crazy. It's uh Axon, and I have been talking about this on the Victory Soft podcast for like all year, basically, and it's just been going straight up is another one. So, these are some of the ones that I' I've been looking at. Um, I did like Chipotle, but I don't anymore. Celsius. Nah, I don't know. I would I would look for some maybe some there's got to be some individual some individual stocks that you can either purchase or um maybe even buy options. I I don't know. But it sound like you've been talking to like some professionals who've been guiding you down the right way, you know? So maybe if you already are you paying them? Yeah. Yeah. So maybe just do what they say. You know what I'm saying? Like honestly, you know, like if you paying them, I'm just I'm just a guy with a lot of money, right? But I'm just a guy, right? But you know, if you paying some professionals to do it, maybe maybe it makes sense to do what they say. I mean, the international one, that's the only one that kind of confuses me, but they might know something. I don't know. Yeah, they keep on uh wanting me to do their active management. They keep pushing for that every time I talk to Yeah. You know what? Because that's where they make more money. Like I don't I I manage my own [\h__\h] you know? Uh but I like this [\h__\h] you know. And uh you out here saving lives and stuff. Maybe you ain't got the same amount of time. Uh management. I don't know, man. How much money we talking about? How we talking? We talking seven figures? Um no, not seven figures. Um it's it's nothing like you. Um I just started practicing about three and a half years ago. So Okay. Yeah. I used to be a professor. So um I don't have that much. I have like about less than 500,000. So Okay, that's still a good amount. Yeah. You know, in the if you if you want to set it and forget it, you can do active management. But, you know, if it was me, Mhm. I I would I would do some research on like maybe some of the some of the stocks that are see if just a few individual stocks and and and and then mix with index fund, but maybe go mostly index fund because you're not going to be on it on it. But like maybe just spend some time thinking about some companies that you like. I also like Microsoft a lot like long term. Like I think Microsoft's a good stock. Um, some of the ones I named also, what else? And then Bitcoin too, right? The the Bitcoin. You can you don't have to [\h__\h] buy it like Coinbase and then you can just buy the ETF. That's fine. Uh, but look in the look in the like a small at least a small portion I think I think that of a Bitcoin ETF and maybe a stock. Um um you did the uh I I'll let I'll let you go soon but um so many questions but um but basically like when the tariff hit and everything it it went down u that was a good time to buy you think yeah yeah but it's like it's going to go like Bitcoin is like mad volatile you know so like just crypto in general but you oh you know what man all right so here's something you should know this this this right here I'm about to tell you and we've been talking about it a lot like recently, but gold and not like buying gold, but you can get the ETF, you know, or or buy futures, right? That's what I futures contract. But gold, man, like if I put this on the weekly so you can see it a little better, right? It it's it's poised to break out and a lot of institutions have been buying up gold. Like, as you can see, they've just been buying all year. And I don't know, man. Like I'm a big fan. I've been I've been stocking up on like gold. The not the ETF though, not like bars of gold like a weirdo and [\h__\h] But like look into it. Look into gold, man. And and there's a lot of [\h__\h] institutions who are buying up gold like crazy. Like Goldman Goldman Sachs, you know, and a lot of these big institutions are are really buying up gold. They think it's going to outperform a lot of stuff, you know. Okay. And last last question about that is um when World War if World War II hits, you know, should all these things I don't know like do they go disappear or like is there any sort of security like an actual piece of gold I should be walking around with? Oh nah, you know, um I mean I don't think it's gonna get too out of hand, you know. I don't think it's going to be a World War II situ I don't think. Right. I I could be wrong. You know, I I don't think I just feel like we seen this movie times. You know what I'm saying? like this same when we went into Iraq, it was the exact same [\h__\h] Then Yahoo said that there was some weapons and then we went over there, right? You know, and um it's the exact same [\h__\h] I mean, it was [\h__\h] up, you know, but you know, we didn't really like feel it here. Like it wasn't like a World War II where they was drafting [\h__\h] and [\h__\h] you know. It was it wasn't that serious. I don't think I don't think I could be wrong, you know, but you know, in that in that in the case that that happens, we did if it did get crazy, then the stock market would definitely drop. But, you know, I I don't see that [\h__\h] happening, man. I don't see that happening. Yeah. Okay, cool. Cool. All right. But yeah, I could be wrong. No, I hope you're right. I hope you're right. All right. For sure, man. All right. I'll let you, bro. Yeah. Thank you, man. No problem, man. All right, guys. Yo, listen, man. We about to bring the homie Frank to the stage. You know what I'm saying? Frank look like he'll beat your ass if you talking [\h__\h] man. Wait till you see this [\h__\h] man. But before we get into it, yo, if you're trying to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook of the 10 commandments of online training. Link is in the description. Go ahead and get that. You know what I'm saying? Yo, what up, Big Frank? Man, what's good, man? So, first off, I want to say thank you. Um, I've been following you for 11 years. Um, congratulations. So, everything you're you're you're literally one of the reasons why I maintain my physique year round. Uh, I'm 31. I've found you when I was 20. Um, I'm a boxer. Um, I'm training to be an ultramarathon runner and a certified wrest. I told you. Um I'm I'm I'm training to be an ultramarathon runner. Okay. Um and a certified rescue diver for the state of Oregon. Um as I got older um I found that my endurance it just kept going like I can run for hours and I was like let me see if I can I'm 31. 31. Yo. Okay man. It's something that happened when I was 30 man. When I like when I turned 30. Yeah. I feel like that was like peak strength. I I feel like I felt stronger. I don't know. Did you feel you feel that way? That's it. That's literally it. Um I'm able to It took me It took me over 10 years, but when I turned 30, it clicked. So I'm able to maintain 8 to 10% body fat year round. Yeah. Like it's it's I have it to a point. Like it's literally like that. I navigated it. I learned from I'm gonna respect your channel. I'm just g I gotta throw these two names out there because they they work with you. Um Greg O Gallagher and Chris and Chris Jones. Oh yeah. Tell Yeah, Chris, that's that's my dog, man. Y'all were the three that I watched. I got notes on you all that date back to 10 years. Oh [\h__\h] that's awesome, man. I don't want to wait I I don't want to waste any more time. But what I'm saying is I I had to put all of that up so you can see like where I'm coming from. So, basically, I'm pretty financially uh savvy. Um I'm first generation and everything in my family. When I say everything, if if you put me next to my family, you would think I was adopted. But the only the only difference is I learned from their mistakes. I learned from the what they wanted to do in life and what they you know, all that stuff. So, I'm first generation. Nobody in my family knows how to swim. Nobody pays nutrition and fitness lifestyle. Nobody runs to their car unless they're trying to get keys or groceries out their car. It's just non-existent. So, um, basically I'm in exactly 10,000. Can you still hear me? Yeah, I hear you. Okay. So, I'm in exactly $10,77828 worth of debt. I have never been in debt. It is all upon me. I don't blame nobody. I'm an avid reader. Um, I read books so fast I write notes on them, then I read them again, start practicing those things. I am thorough bread. Um, I'm trying to figure out and right now um I have an opportunity. I'm also um getting training to be a a paramedic, by the way, with all of that. You got a lot going on, bro. I got a lot going on. So, I like what you just said there. I'm trying to I want to pay down this debt right now. Yeah. I'm doing a snowball effect. I dissected my again, this was all upon me. I jumped out on my 30th birthday and I bought me the 2020 4 M3 MacBook Pro. Um I do um film making as well. Um the first time I got my MacBook is my mom funded it. That was over that was like 14 15 years ago when I graduated from college. Um we had the low-end one. That's the only one she can afford. So when I got when I turned 30 last year, I was like I got the money. I can do it. Except I bought it off my credit card. Now I normally pay off my credit card like that. But I was making it I'm from I'm from Inglewood, Chicago. Oh. I got a lot of grit. I got a lot of grit. I know. Exactly. I spent a lot of time in Englewood. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I know you're from Chicago, too. The Chicago Southside. So, um I'm trying to find the cross of paying off that debt while going to school. Yeah. While maintaining my mental health. I have a therapist. Yeah. While maintaining my social life. Now, I do understand everything is not going to be balanced. I understand that nothing in life is balanced when you're trying to I get it. Especially I read the book Relentless. You actually had recommended it. I've been following you for a while, man. And like I said, all the stuff that you recommended to guys, I took it serious. I started practicing it years ago. I'm trying to find a cross between time. Um I think a lot in the future. I was trying a bunch of times. I was letting it slide, but now it's a habit. You know what I'm saying? Like we don't we don't say you don't. Well Well, we don't say trying. We say we work. Say work. I'm going to say I'm going to say so. Yes. Um, I normally say practicing. Okay. I normally say practicing. So, I'm I'm kind of a little bit I got the jitters right now cuz I didn't think I was going to get through. But, um, I'm just like I just like need like advice like what is time, you know what I mean? I don't want to miss out on on getting this schooling. I found a place in here that will pay for the schooling for me. Only thing I got to do is drive 30 minutes there. Okay. But I also want to pay down this debt. I can I have about $3,000 maybe about $3,500 in savings right now. I have debt with one credit card. One credit card is $4,000. I do not again I I only use a credit card. I normally pay it off. I just went up. I got a little bit, you know, when I turned 30. So one credit card um one one thing by the Illinois Department of Revenue. That's about $1,650. The one credit card, $4,000. I have been making payments on that. And I have one by the IRS. I've been making payments on that as well. That one is We lost him. He's a good brother. Oh, there you go. There you go. You back. All right. My fault. We lo We thought we lost you, man. Yeah. No. So, um the the the IRS $5,14248. So that all equals up to I'm trying to get that pay down. I know exactly what to do, but yeah, working. I'm just looking at time. Don't use the T word. We're working on it. We're working on it. Yeah. Yeah. All right. All right. Cool. Um, so it's it's basically just time. It's time time because it sound like it's 10 10 grand in debt. I know it sounds instrumental. It's not a lot. It's not a lot at all. Money, man. It's like could could you you What would it take for you to make like an extra thousand dollars a month? Oh, 100%. I I can get a part-time job and even boost it up to just doing 30 30 hours with that part-time job and I gonna be able to knock that out in eight months, bro. You can do probably do you could probably drive Uber on the weekend and get that if you want to. I I know I sound like I'm Uber. I just feel like some No, no, no, no. So, actually, I I wanted to So, here's the thing. Um maybe this could help the guy that was just that was uh to two guys before me, but you can make money making lists. I have receipts. I was making $1,200 a week doing lift and the expenses. Keep all your receipts. All your receipts, you would get that money back. I promise you, I still got that money in my savings. So, here's the thing. With my car, it's no problem. But here in Oregon, I'm not in Portland. I'm in Eugene. Oh, yeah. Exactly. It's not lucrative at all. There was times I jumped out of that um when it took me freaking four hours to make $30. I said, "This ain't the move here." No, it ain't the move here. But here's the thing here. There's career training everywhere. Only thing you have to do is jump out. I have a career counselor. I have a career counselor that's been helping me out. Yeah. It's just all about time. All right. Time. So, you just need more time. It's Yeah. What do I make? I'm what what is the prior? I'm trying to figure out what's the I have to get the debt down, but I'm trying to figure out, okay, should I part time it along with I work security right now. That's why you see me working in black [\h__\h] robbing the place now, man. [\h__\h] go haywire back there, man. I'm I'm off work right now, but the security is my full-time job. All right. I'm trying to figure out I'm practicing to figure out that part time part-time job and schooling or part-time job for four or five months. Get that debt down then schooling. You know, you know, it depends on like how how stressful is the debt? Like what what's the ramifications to paying it off slow? You know what I'm saying? It's it's not stressful at all. If it seemed like I'm tense right now. No, no. No. Yeah. No, I'm a little bit I'm a little bit embarrassed by myself because I know better. Even though I'm first generation, I read books. I start practicing those things immediately. I have not touched the MacBook. I only used it three times. So, I was like, maybe I can sell it. I have not touched it at all. I was like, okay. It's just you could do that. But I'm just think, okay, there's a few things, too. Let me I'm I'm gonna solve this for you. I I I think first you got to understand to answer your question what what you should prioritize. It depends on how stressful the debt is and what kind of what the ramifications of playing it all slow is. You know, if it if it's something that's impeding your your progress in some other way, then cool. But if not, then it's like, all right, whatever, man. They get it when they get it. You know what I'm saying? If it's not stopping nothing, you know, then they get it when they get it. You know, you you got to make that decision. You know, some people just feel weird when they have that. Like they just feel weird. That's how I feel. It's like it's like I know better. It's it's that's it. It's like I know better. Um I I own I have a lot of gold, natural gold. I have jewelry that I can like literally sell. I don't have no attachment to it, but it's more so just like embarrassment like on my end. Like even I know $10,000 is not a lot. But it's just like it's like I know what I did and if I was to prevent it and go back in time half, yes, but half I believe in I turn everything that that's comes in my life to solutions. I'm very proactive, but it's more so just embarrassment, you know, and it's like I want it like done so I can finish building my emergency. We all made mistakes, man. I made way bigger mistakes than that, bro. You know what I'm saying? So, don't even trip. You know, this this ain't this ain't it may feel like a big deal, but this ain't no big deal, man. You straight with this [\h__\h] Well, but here's the thing. Whatever you decide, the the key the key the key the key the key calendar. You start planning out every hour of every day. You may be doing it now, right? But if you do this, then you'll find the time. You you'll find the time for all the [\h__\h] like social life, [\h__\h] working, paying off the debt, going to school. It's like this is the key. If if there's one thing I want everyone listen so I can so I do that I do know I can do better. Yeah, I 100% know I can do better. I I I write everything down tangible and I keep a digital copy. I have journals on my life everything that I'm practicing. Uh I can do better with time. There's times where I have no problem getting up in the morning 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning because I have to run. and I'm running two to three hours like you know and I have no problem going to sleep at night. The only thing is it's a pro and a it's it's a it's a a two cities because sometimes I keep myself sometimes knowing that I I can wake up in the morning easy. Sometimes I go to sleep at 12:00 a.m. Yeah. When I have to be up at 4 or 5. But I I'm getting older and I'm and I believe in working smarter as harder as I can and I'm not gonna sit here and play like I'm invincible because even though I'm doing like all of these things, like you said, time is still a thing and I know I can do better with that and I'm I'm Yeah. I think I think I think here here's what you do, Frank. You decide which is more important, right? Because you said, do you want to go go get the career thing or do you want to get out of debt? You know, if it was me, I'd probably man whatever. I'll [\h__\h] that debt. You know what I'm saying? Like, you know, like not like [\h__\h] like I'll pay it off when I pay it off. I got to work on other [\h__\h] That's what I would do. But that I don't know if that's the right I'm not saying that's the right thing to do, right? I just I just know myself and I know that's what I would do, you know? And um and that worked against me sometimes, right? Like because I remember I owed I owed like New York State a bunch of money and I was like, "Yeah, man. they'll get it when I [\h__\h] feel like it. And then one day I just I waited too long and I woke up and they just took a hundred grand out of my account. They just took it. You know what I'm saying? And I was like, "Oh, all right. I probably should have handled that." So like, but I'm just saying that's what I would have do. I don't know if it's right, but the main thing once you figure out which which which path you want to go down, then you got to really get aggressive with planning your time. You're gonna have to get aggressive. You want to fit more [\h__\h] into it. And everyone listening and just all not everyone listen. If you ain't when you start planning out every hour day in your calendar, it will feel like you have so much more time. You just like you you'll unlock more time because you're not wasting as much time. And and any of y'all who have bad habits, they'll start to just go away, right? Because you know like when I got like if you look at my calendar when I got time to like do some real [\h__\h] like when I got time to to play video games ain't on the calendar. You know what I'm saying? And uh [\h__\h] smoking weed gooning and [\h__\h] ain't on the calendar, right? It's just like it's like you all the [\h__\h] you're trying to you're every all the stuff you're working on abstaining from if you just packed your calendar full with other [\h__\h] you would have to worry about. I know that's not your your problem, Frank, but I just wanted to put that out there. like it's it's the cheat code to like it's really the real Yeah. No, no, I believe you. I got I got two quick questions. I don't want to waste I don't want to waste uh any more of your time and stuff. I got two quick questions really quick. Um All right. Okay. So, um I'm almost done fueling up my emergency fund. I'm paying down a debt and uh I like what you said just doing it slow because it's not affecting me. It's just more so embarrassment. Like I know better, you know. Mhm. Um my my my question is where you could even name one place for time sake or two places do you recommend me sitting my money in in terms of a savings and and after I have that cushion where to start investing so I can just get on that train track and be like okay you know I'm establishing a foundation. Yeah. Yeah. So the easiest thing for you would be, you know, like I I have my emergency fund in a high yield savings account. You know, that's what everyone told me high yield saving and it's like hopefully I never use it, but you know what I'm saying? I never need it, right? But in a high yield savings account and then you know depends on your your sophistication uh just how much you know about investing, right? But if you don't know about investing then yo index fund and the best one is probably just V which is S&P 500 index fund is then you just just invest in that monthly that would be the best place to start you know if you're not going to like get into [\h__\h] reading charts and financials and fundamental analysis and all that [\h__\h] you know because it doesn't sound like you got a lot of time to learn to like focus on that right now. Yeah. Yeah. But if you just it's it's I I have it on the back burner. I have those books that I just listen to and just sit in the back of my mind when I'm riding my bike and Audible and things. So, yeah. But the best move for you at least right now would be let's just, you know, bother. Okay. All right. Okay. U my last question is um you had made like a little short on Instagram. Um, you was like, "These are the books that I that I read that um about the 10,000 hour rule, the 25,000 hour rule, and I believe it's A-50,000 hour rule." And no, I made up all the other hours. Okay. Okay. But it was influenced by those books and then life experience. Yeah. It was one where you were talking about total mastery like a Mosart level where it's like eight hours a day for 25 hours up to I'm sorry. Yeah. 25,000. I think outliers by Malcolm Gladwell. Yeah. Okay. But it's like, yo, [\h__\h] Malcolm, you gotta be prepared, man, because he's longwinded. Like, his books are all way longer than they need to be, but people seem to like him, and I'm the only person I've heard say that. Okay. So, like, everybody else seems to [\h__\h] really like it. So, you said that book I have um um talent over Talent's overrated. Talent's overrated. That's the one. I have uh Okay. Okay. The talent code and they're all around the same line. The talent code. Okay. Thank you for that. I'm I'm going to go pick up those two book. Those are the ones that's missing out of my collection. Sounds good, homie. Okay. You're on the right track, man. You good. Don't worry about that debt, man. It happens. You know what I'm saying? Everybody, I appreciate it. Thank you. All right. All right, man. Enjoy your day. All right. Peace. [\h__\h] If I had $10,000, I wouldn't even think about it, man. But, um, it depends on where you at. You know, this is things like when you get into those situation, man, they ain't insurmountable. You know, any of y'all if you in debt, even if it's way more than that, like it ain't insurmountable. Like, you can get out of you can work your way out of almost anything if you really put your head down and start working. You know what I'm saying? All right. Yo, I gave D we about to bring Ryan up. You know what I'm saying? Homie Ryan, he's excited. Y'all should see him, man. He's he's really enthusiastic. We gonna bring him up in a second. But um I I gave that dude recommend the homie Frank recommendations for books. But what y'all need to read the book I wrote called the ten commandments of online training. Show you how to grow your online fitness business and how I made my first million. Right? I break the whole [\h__\h] down. I've helped 15,000 people grow their online fitness business. Right? You get some of that knowledge. The link is in the description. Yo, what's going on, Ryan? Yo, we can't even hear you, man. We can't even hear you, bro. Bad unmuted. How there you go, man. What's up, man? What's good, bro? What's up? What's that watch you was trying to show? I was just saying doing the bus down like you, bro. You have no bust down. Yo, you influenced that. I swear to God, bro. Really? Yeah. Yo, cuz you you do that video. You're like, you know what I mean? I just put diamonds on my [\h__\h] because I don't care. I was like, exactly. Yo, man. Here's some I see you with See, all the nerds are gonna tell you not to put diamonds on your watches because it ruins the resale value. You ain't out here flipping watches, man. Nope. All right. You know what I'm saying? And everyone, every dude who said that, every dude who says that, he basically is telling us he ain't never [\h__\h] no big booty Latina [\h__\h] Big facts. Never did. Never going to. Yep. You know what I'm saying? Miami. That's what he's saying. You know what I'm saying? He don't know, you know. But what's good, man? How can I help you? What's good, bro? Yo, I actually ran into you one time in uh Cotay. You were with the boy Jay Waller and I like chopped up with you. I do remember you. Yeah, outside of Yeah. Yeah. Waller. I'm just saying like uh I feel like you are super underrated in terms of like the people you reach. I know like your target demographics like fitness trainers, but like you got people like myself is like a seven figure entrepreneur. You know what I mean? So, it's like like it's crazy that like uh you know there's so much value from you and I feel like your story makes the biggest difference because I relate to you the most out of like everybody like myself. I work with Kanye, I work with Future, I work with Tai, I work with uh Grant Cardone, like all the big dogs, but I [\h__\h] with you the most because essentially Can I curse on here? My bad, bro. Yeah, man. Say whatever. Don't say nothing. Don't say nothing. Yeah, man. for [\h__\h] five minutes, bro. Don't say nothing. I won't. No. No. But uh No, but for real, like, bro, because like you were talking about like you were in music, you had a record deal, all that stuff like that, and then like, you know, your dad and just like your story resonates with me more than anybody else because I just see so many people, they like, bro, their dad gave it to them or their uncle gave it for them or like they got an investor, brother. It's just some different [\h__\h] you know? Oh, well, I appreciate that, man. Thank you, man. Hell yeah. Hell yeah, bro. you by the way man you say you make seven figure entrepreneur man tell people what they do man everybody everybody's wondering yep I have a private equity firm so uh you saying that yes so I sold my first company uh in 2017 it was a jewelry company I actually didn't make that much money off it but we scaled it uh it was in Costco Nordstrom Macy's and then after that I kind of had to figure it all out because we had pretty much had to pay all the debt for the inventory and really didn't make any money off that um so kind of got into tech uh they would not give Give me a job, bro. I'm a high school dropout. Like, you know what I mean? So, I had to create my own job. Uh, this is like when AI was early, so I started with recruiting, got into that. Then, I got into tech. I actually built Dame Dash Studios with Dame. That was like my first for into tech. Yeah. And then, uh, yeah, he connected me with Kanye. So, I did some deals with Kanye. And then, um, man, I just kind of grew it from there. And then I had like a really successful run in like software. And then I really saw the real side is like you could just use AI for like service companies these days. I started that like 2023 and I don't tell anybody it's AI but like uh you know I mean I'm just doing a lot of service companies that I have that are servicing the real estate market uh and then we just use AI in the back end and barely any staff you know what I mean? So that's that's what I do now. Congratulations. Thank you bro. But uh my question to you is I so I just moved back I moved to Miami. Uh I still have a crib in uh Miami or in SF but I moved pretty much full-time to Miami. So right now I'm in my studio. Yeah. you know, I followed you, you know what I mean? To do what you doing. So, I got this studio space that I'm going to build out here in South Beach in Miami. So, like I want to really get back in like building my brand studio. Uh, bro, so right now it's like an office space. So, just like a random ass office space that I just bought. Yeah. Uh, yeah. And then like a podcast studio, like a YouTube studio like Oh, podcast studio. And then uh maybe like some recording studio too because uh I have like a really famous uh DJ frame friend Sikkick that like we do we do stuff together so might make him a room there. But yeah, man. So I'm trying to get to the structure of like the day. So I'm trying to calendar it out and [\h__\h] like that. I think the T word, man. You don't say that around here, man. Say anything but. Oh yeah. Oh my bad. My bad. My bad. But yeah, we we we just gota uh take things to the next level with the content. So, I'm just trying to figure out how do you act did it again, man. What you trying to do? Why you doing? My bad. I'm being a try baby. God damn it. You act like trib. God damn it. Goddamn try babies, bro. Um, no, bro. But how how are you like calculating the time between like your different businesses? Because like, yeah, bro, like I start at 8 or my my gym session was in the morning. I'm barely finishing my work at 8 and then I don't know how I have time for content and [\h__\h] like that. So, I'm trying to allocate all this [\h__\h] Yeah. Okay. So, here here's the thing with content, right? So, and this is something I've always I had I had to figure out on my own, you know, back when I was, you know, my my very my first 10,00 YouTube videos I edited and filmed and did everything, you know, and it was long form, you know, wasn't no shorts and reals and [\h__\h] And this is what worked for me. And some of this won't be applicable to you what I'm gonna say, but I think it's going to help a lot of other people. And this is what I teach my my my students in HTT when I'm showing them how to grow their online fitness business. Hold on. Let me uh All right. So, let me share my screen. So, it's uh All right, cool. So, listen. Let's say you make you making a piece of content, right? Yep. You gotta you gotta you gotta plan it, right? Maybe like plan it what it's going to be. Maybe write a script or some [\h__\h] you know? Figure out what the idea is, you know? Then you have to film. Excuse my handwriting. Film, right? Then you have to edit or have somebody on your team edit. Edit, right? Then you can post or schedule, right? And the problem is when when people are making content, and this is definitely more applicable for people who don't have teams, when you're like a solo person, you you do all of this for each piece of content. You know what I'm saying? Like you do it all in a row. You do you do each part is you you you do each part of this once and then you move on to the next piece of content. That doesn't work for a a few reasons, right? So it it doesn't work it doesn't work if you're going for volume, you know, right? And I think that's where I'm [\h__\h] up because uh I let go of my team on that like a couple years ago when I had to kind of downshift back up. Yeah. So now All right. So whether it's just you doing it all or you get you start you hire some editors or people feel me? It should still be done like you can do like day one, right? Oh, so not doing it all in day one day. Yeah, exactly. Day one. Day one you this is what I teach my my students in a high ticket trainer, right? This is why my my students make so much money because they start they finally start to be prolific and come out with a bunch of content. So day one you do you plan you know somewhere between seven and seven and 14 videos. You plan them. Right. Right. And then day two, day two again, seven to 14 videos because if you go up to 14, you can have two a week, right? Two a day. I mean, you know, but you gota at least do seven, right? Right. Day three. A [\h__\h] My handwriting is not this bad. It's bad, but it's not this bad. It's a screen. Day three, seven to 14 videos, right? And now you have like an assembly line, right? And you batching it all together. And then day four again, seven to 14 videos, right? And what what happens is and they don't have to be like consecutive days. You can stretch it out, you know, or you might need another day to come up with scripts. So you might have to add another day. This is just an example, right? Because some some people come up with ideas one day and then they have another day for scripting. So you might have to add another day or whatever. Just whatever. You're just batching the [\h__\h] up. You're batching the content and then you you're doing you're making this way. You make the videos in batches, right? And this is what I did when I I was doing like two long form videos a day on YouTube, right? You know, like long form. And uh it it was only because I was able to do this. And and also a good thing about this is listen, if you like take one video and you [\h__\h] baby it from each step and then you post it, you're going to give a [\h__\h] when you when you post it like, "Oh, what's going to do, man? Oh, it's not getting views." And you know, you're going to be emotional about it. Yeah. But if you throwing up two videos a day, some are [\h__\h] fail, some are hit. You know what I'm saying? Like you won't you won't be emotional because you [\h__\h] emptying the clip, but if you only got one bullet, you really care where that bullet is placed, right? Does that make sense? Yeah. Big facts. Also, I've been doing trial reels. I I don't know if you seen that. The trial. Yeah, I've seen trial reels. Um that [\h__\h] worked out great. Uh yeah, I had a video. So I I've been batching like I'm kind of batching it, but more so batching the film. Like, dude, I had I posted like 50 clips that I did in one session, like recording session, put them all on trial reels, and then one video hit like 500k videos. Oh, in the trial. 500K in the trial. It hit like 10k in trial. That's when I knew that I need to post that [\h__\h] And when I posted that [\h__\h] went to 500K. That's crazy. That now that's good. You know what? You know what I think a good use case for trials is? Is I used to work with this dude who's working with my shorts and reals and [\h__\h] at one point. uh my boy Ryan and um he would he he would do this [\h__\h] I hated when he would post the same video on Tik Tok with like a different hook. Yep. And I was like that's awful. Like why you doing that? You know what I'm saying? Like I made him stop. But with trial reels, you can put you can have like different hooks like basic controls and you can see which one [\h__\h] works the best. Exactly. I think that's like a good use case too, you know? Yep. Absolutely. It's the batching that I think I'm I'm really messing up on is because like Yeah, you start batching, man. And then yo, I don't even do trial reels, though. Like, you should. Yeah, I I I I I might give it another shot, you know. Um I like it for the idea of testing different hooks, but you know, I'm I'm trying to be prolific, so I'm just letting this [\h__\h] fly, man. Like, some of them going to hit, some of them ain't. You know, I'm just letting it fly, man. You know, I'm a Yep. You know, my the way I approach everything, it's not I'm not like perfectionist. I'm not like a sniper. I'm more like a bugger. You're consistent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just I just let it fly, bro. Yeah. No, bro. Yeah. No, you're consistent as hell, bro. I don't want to care. Like I mean, I care about a certain level of quality, but I don't want to be emotionally attached to the outcome is what I mean. What I say like I still care about what I do. It's just I don't want to have an emotional attachment like, "Oh man, this video didn't do good. I have [\h__\h] video that flops and I'm like, "Yeah, whatever, man. The next one, hey, we got another shot tomorrow or later today, right?" You know what I'm saying? Big. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. That's a big thing because when you never did, you never really did content before, right? I did. I just fell off for like a like two three years, bro. I'm telling you this. A big reason people [\h__\h] quit is they get they don't see like enough success or they they post they put a bunch of time effort into like a few videos and they don't do good. Volume solves that problem. Big facts. And and and here's another thing about volume, right? Here's another thing. You know, this is a this is underrated. It's like, yo, you'll get better at it, you know? Okay. Um, I was about to draw something, but I shamed my mom. Uh, it's like you'll get better at it because the more when you get good at something, you do it by doing it more, right? You know, right? So, if you want to get better at making content, make more content, right? So, volume will actually People say, "Oh, man. It's quality over quantity." I'm like, "Nah, [\h__\h] Quality begets, I mean, quantity begets quality, right?" Right. You know what I'm saying? Quality comes from quantity, right? You know what I'm saying? Nobody had as [\h__\h] Mr. Beast wasn't Mr. Beast on his first videos, man. Them shits was trash first video, right? Like, you know, like, you know, you gota you got to put in a lot of [\h__\h] reps to get good at anything. Yep. This solves that problem, too. 100%. And that's why like I I invested in the studio, invested into moving to Miami, and then I'm shipping the Lambo out. So, you know, crazy. We got We gota change this up. It's a little Listen, man. You gota be careful here. Yo, I'm just trying to be like you, bro. That's it. And I need this to change. So, like this time I'm on like, you know what I mean? The Q&A, but we got like I got to get to a level where we're doing podcast or some [\h__\h] So, Mark Instagram again, bro. You gave it to me at that [\h__\h] You gave it to me at Yeah, I didn't DM you, bro. I just got busy. is Ryan. R Y A [\h__\h] [\h__\h] he came up to I was [\h__\h] You came up to me. I know, bro. All right. Ryan and what? Gumar. K U M A R K U M A R SV. Oh, I see it. Yeah, that's me, bro. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I got you, man. Yeah. So, uh Yeah, man. I I'm I'm just trying to You know what I mean? Hey. Hey. Oh, [\h__\h] No try, baby. [\h__\h] man. No more tries. No more. Almost anything but that. I rather you say the N word or like say I rather you say a racial bro. Try to get me cancel. Say the T word, man. Jesus. We triphobic. A [\h__\h] bro. No. And then, bro, I know I know you got probably hella people here, but one last question, my G. We did. They all left cuz we was taking a [\h__\h] Nah. God damn it, bro. But I'm about to go cuz it's not It's all good. Yo, so are you doing this with like the rest of your work too? Like cuz bro, you got the team too and [\h__\h] you know? This is this [\h__\h] is kind of fun, man. You know, like you said, I every once in a while I I like to just touch the people. No, diddy. You know, like just get Hey yo, hey yo. No, Diddy. I like get in touch with people and like listen and just I don't know, you know, I used to do a lot of like live events, but I kind of stopped that when COVID hit. Yeah. But I I enjoyed it and I was like, "All right, this is kind of like some, you know, I just a few hours, man. I was like I told Nema I like I didn't it wasn't scheduled. I just told Nema, "Yo, let's do it. Let's do it today." And I was looking at I might do it all this week. It's it's just like it's a light week, you know? You know, so No, bro. You killing it, man. You got to just [\h__\h] Yeah, you you got to like double down on the entrep like all your content entrepreneur. You got to like have an offer to give entrepreneurs, bro. Cuz I would have Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I know. If I can spend like 10 racks 10 racks a month to just hang out with Brandon Carter, [\h__\h] copy his form. Give me 10 rack. I'll take a nap. Take We'll I'll invent something. I'll close the deal right now. I'll get on my phone and I'll find someone to pay for that [\h__\h] Let's go. I'll invent some [\h__\h] man. you know. Hell yeah. We do got we we we cooking up something, man. Later in the third quarter, it's just I had along those lines. Yeah, it should be around third quarter. It's just um we had a lot of different projects and I just, you know, just things in order. Yeah. No, I get it, bro. You just get busy and [\h__\h] And you got a business, too. You got a team. So, and you got a girl. You [\h__\h] And you got a kid. You got I fly to Atlanta. A lot of people don't people don't know this unless they like [\h__\h] watch all my Instagram story, but I fly I fly to my son every other week. Sometimes three three weekends a month, you know what I'm saying? Two or three weekends a month, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. Or like I'm I'm there. So then but when I'm there, I'm not working, you know? So it's like there's a balance. Bro, you always stick on to the weekend [\h__\h] because if not, I love the like are like sleeping earlier. I love if not I gota bring you to a show, bro. Like uh one of the Sick Kick shows. Oh, who the [\h__\h] is sick kid? Yeah, sick. Sound like an anime character or something out there right now, bro. He's killing it. Killing it. Show, bro. Yo, tell me we we I think we got something. I never heard of this [\h__\h] It's that is that EMA EDM, bro. You about to see. Yo, you about to get me fired, bro. The EDM [\h__\h] man. Yeah, bro. That's where like them like that's like where them white girls dress up like um like like Pokemon that's that [\h__\h] where white girls dress up like No, bro. Looking like Pikachu. Yeah. Hell yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. You gotta pull up to a [\h__\h] kick show, bro. We got to have Brandon Carter pull up. I had BG pull up in Vegas. So, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. All right, man. We'll see what's up. We'll see. All right, bro. I appreciate you, bro. For sure, man. Peace. Miami, bro. Hey, thank you, bro. We got I'll see you soon. All right. Yo, guys, I'm about to get up out of here. It's nine o'clock. Sorry for the white guy uh that was waiting in the waiting room, man. I know we probably took too long. I apologize. It wasn't racially motivated. I wanted to get to you. I was doing it in order and trying to just trying to help the people, man. You know what I'm saying? All right, but anyway, listen, guys. I'm gonna get up out of here. Listen, if you're trying to grow your online fitness business, you need to get that Ten Commandments of online training. It'll put you on the right path. Uh, it's 100% free. You say, "All right, I holl at y'all. Peace." How I end this? How How I turn this [\h__\h] off? What's the button be?