Here's how you can make money as an online trainer. Even if you have a small following, you don't need a big following to make money because you don't need a whole lot of clients. You only need 25. 25 clients makes you six figures a year. If you charge $80 a week for 25 clients for 52 weeks, that's a year. That would be $104,000 a year. Now, how do you get the client? Even if you have a small following, there's probably 25 people who are excited to work with you right now. So, here's what you're going to do. You're going to start posting educational content that will help people accomplish their fitness goal. If you're going to post your workouts, make sure you explain why you did that workout and how the viewer can incorporate some of those ideas to help them accomplish their goals. Same thing with your meals. Most of you eat every day several times so you can post your meals and what you're eating, but explain why you're eating that and how it helps you accomplish their goals and how it can help the viewer accomplish their goals as well. Now, here's the thing. Everyone who engages with that content, everyone who likes it, leaves a comment, and even all the new followers you get, what you're going to do is you're going to DM every one of them. So, if somebody likes your content, you're going to immediately DM them with a video. You're going to say, "Hey, so and so, I see you liked my reel. Let me ask you a question. Are you struggling with your diet? You need some help coming up with a nutrition plan to accomplish your goal." And then you get into a DM conversation with them. See what their struggles are and explain how you can potentially help them with that. Then you get on a Zoom call with them and really break down the whole system. This where you go into your sales script and then you sell them either $80 a week, $2.97 a month or 16 week. If you want to learn more about how that works, type 10 in the comments. I'll send you a free copy of my ebook, The Ten Commandments of Online Training. I've helped over 15,000 people grow successful online fitness businesses.