So, I thought I was about to have unprotected interracial sex with my girlfriend, but she wasn't in the best mood. So, I questioned her on it. What the wrong with you? And she was telling me about, you know, some goals she had been working on and she hasn't been making the kind of progress that she wanted. And I I I asked her, "Well, how hard have you been working on this thing?" And then she went to tell me all the things that she was doing and the the progress she made. And when she was telling me the what she was doing, I was like, "Yeah, you're working hard, but let me ask you a question. On a scale of one to 10, like how bad do you want to accomplish the thing?" So, a 10 being you don't want to live without it. A one being you don't even really want it at all. Like, you'll take it if they give it to you, but you don't really give a give a [\h__\h] I had to wait to see if it was past the minute, the one minute mark, so I can start cursing and [\h__\h] to take your video down. Not down, but you don't get as much reach if you curse in the first minute. Anyway, she said, "Nine." I was like, "Nine? Are you for real?" She said, "Yeah." I said, "Okay, let me ask you a question." And be honest with yourself. You're working hard, but is your effort at a nine level? Are you working the way someone who wanted it that bad would work? And it was almost like a light bulb went off in her head. I s I saw it in real time like, "Oh." And then I think she understood. And then I kind of just dropped the mic. I didn't wait for a response. I kind of just did the uh mic drop and walked out the room as usual after I say some dope [\h__\h] But I think that's common. Like people, they think they're working hard and and they probably are working hard, but it's relative, you know? And are you working as hard as you should be to accomplish your goals at the desired level of your goals. Meaning, does your ambition match your effort? Does your ambition match your effort? One of my favorite books, I've read it, I don't know how many times, a very thin book. It's called The Science of Getting Rich by Wallace D. Waddles. Legend has it the chick who wrote The Secret based it on that book. Like in if you watch the movie The Secret, she said she read some book. She ain't tell us what it was, but then she said that put her on a path, according to legend, the book was The Science of Getting Rich by Wallace D. Wallace. This book was published in like the the top of 1900, like 1910 or some [\h__\h] Old school. older than your mama. And there's one part that she left out no less than I don't know, maybe hundreds of times in that book. Maybe not hundreds, but definitely dozens of times. He said in all caps, do all that can be done each day. If you do all that can be done each day, you will get rich. And I took that to heart when I was a kid. I read that when I was 19, 20. I'm 43 now. Old school Tupac Wu Chang, you know, old school. And I don't think you guys know what working hard really is. Cuz let's break that sentence down. Do all that can be done each day. First of all, all that can be done is not working hard. It's not hustling. It's not grinding. It's working at capacity. Like capacity, whatever your capacity is. Now, every different people have different capacities, right? Like if you got a bunch of kids, if you got 30, 40 kids, then you might not be able to work as hard as me who has one kid who lives with his mom. you know, I got less obligations. I still visit my son like all the time. He live they live in a different state and every other weekend I'm with him. Some months I'm in I'm there more than that. Like if there's an event at school, I'm at every event. Like a lot of the parents think I live there, but n man, I'm I'm hop I'm hopping off and off on and off the jet to kick it with the little man. I got We're divorced, right? him and his mom and I are divorced and she went to move with her parents. Man, you know, get off my get off get out my business. Mind your business anyway. Uh, right. So, you may have more obligations. You might not be able to go as hard as me. And if you don't have no kids, if you single, then you can you have more capacity than me, right? cuz I got to be I got to hop off off and on the jet to break the cycle of fatherless children in the black community. I I I hold that responsibility. You may have different obligations, right? But are you working at your capacity? Whatever it is, I don't want to hear, "Oh, but I can't do this. I got work. I got school. I got shut your [\h__\h] ass up." trying to stop saying the f word, you know, because I ain't got no problems with homosexuals, you know. It's just habitual, you know, and I I I don't think it's cool to deliberately be disrespectful just cuz I don't think that's based or alpha picking on fat gays just to be cool. What was I talking about? Oh yeah. Are you working at capacity? That's do all that could be done. And then second part of that sentence, each day. Do all that can be done each day. So that's every day. It's not most of the time. It's not sometime. It's not once in a while. It's not a lot. It's each day. Today's Sunday. I I woke I've been up since 5 working hard. This is only going to be a small part of my day posting this video. I got mad [\h__\h] to do. I'm working. Super Bowl Sunday. You know what I'm saying? I'm working. When I'm if I if if it's a weekend when I'm with my son, I wake up at 5, let the little homies sleep in, and I may not get as much work done that day, but I do all that can be done, right? I I I work then I then I get up and me and him go on some adventures, you know, movie movie worthy worthy adventures every weekend, but it's every day. It's each day. Are you doing that? Like the the thing you're trying to accomplish is are you doing that? And if you do that, go do all that can be done each day, I promise you, you will not fail. Now, here's the thing. I posted a video yesterday about success, about how you got to be kind of obsessive to be successful. And there was a comment where someone said he wasn't being negative and he wasn't being disrespectful and I appreciated the his insight but he said you can work hard and still fail. And he's right. You can work hard and still fail. You cannot do all that can be done each day and still fail. I promise you. and you've probably never done it for an extended am period of time. Again, I don't think you guys know what I mean. All that can be done each day. And I'm going to break down what this is going to look like for you. Do all that can be done each day. Remember, that's capacity. And that's every day. Whatever your capacity is, you're going to have different capacities depending on your life situation. And different days are going to have different capacity. like other some days I can't work as hard because I got different obligations and I got different things I have to do as as a father, as a as a as a boyfriend, as a as a as as a son, someone else's son, right? Like I I have different obligations. So some days my capacity is higher, but I'm working at capacity and it's each day and I'm not taking days off. I know God took the seventh day off, but God made a whole universe, bro. You was [\h__\h] around on your computer or something. You know what I'm saying? You was sitting at a desk. You ain't making universe. You are not him. You are not him. All right? You a goddamn guy. You are not him. Don't compare yourself to God when you out here. at a desk at a computer or driving a bus or whatever the [\h__\h] you do. You wasn't making universes, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] all right. God can take a day off. You can't. Oh, but the one of the ten commandments is respect the Sabbath. Hey, listen. I guess we just picking and choosing what Old Testament rules we want to abide by. All right. Now, that's cool. if that's the one you want to pick. Okay, so that's your capacity. Your capacity is you can do all that can be done six days a week, right? Maybe you have to work harder on different days to make up with that. Whatever your capacity is, do all that can be done each day. I promise you will not fail. And how do I know that? Because I only know a few people, a handful of people who have ever worked at at that level. And that's the only way to guarantee success. You can definitely work hard and still fail. That dude is right. You can work really hard and still fail. You cannot work at capacity every day and still fail. Working hard and working at capacity are two different things. Lifting heavy weights and and lifting till failure are two different things. You get what I'm saying? Right? So, here's here's here's the exercise. You need to do the exact same thing. I told my girl, well, I'm going give you two things you need to do. Maybe a third if you lucky. First thing is do that same exercise again, my girl. Whatever your goal is, whatever you're trying to accomplish, you need to think, okay, h on scale of 1 to 10, how bad do I really want it? If you can honestly say any eight or above, ask yourself, hey man, am I working at that level? And that should do two things. I don't say I I don't want it to make you feel bad. I want you to be I want you to understand that oh the amount of work I put in is appropriate. I mean the the the level of accomplishment I've achieved is probably appropriate for my work ethic, you know. So things aren't going wrong. Things are going exactly how they should be. Life is cause and effect. Extreme success requires extreme actions. It's the universe is not crazy enough to reward you with extreme success for regular actions. It's not how the world works. It's not how life works. The universe, that [\h__\h] don't even happen in the movies. You know what I'm saying? That [\h__\h] don't even happen in Hollywood. They wouldn't make a Hollywood movie is that [\h__\h] ridiculous, right? Extreme success requires extreme actions, right? So now if you want to, you got two options at this point. You can say, you know what, I don't want it that bad. Maybe you should give up. Like straight up, maybe you should give up. Because if you just work hard and you don't go at capacity, then you you're going to you're going to do just enough to fail. Like I wouldn't be surprised if you fail right now. If it is a eight or above, then it's like, okay, then what does working at at at at at that level look like? Well, it's it's capacity and it's every day, whatever your capacity is. And there's a few things you can do to help that. So, one one thing I I recommend is people track how long how much they work at the goal each day. How much how much are you working on the goal each day? How many hours are you really putting in? Like sometimes people will be like, "Ah man, I'm not good at this thing yet." And they'll be frustrated. But it's like if you only work at it for 20 hours. Yeah. You're not supposed to be good. Yeah. It takes It takes a 10,000 hours to be an expert, one of the best in the world. But 100 hours makes you not bad. Okay, that that is not bad. Doesn't mean you're good. It just means you're not bad. Like if you picked up a guitar today for the first time and practiced for an hour a day for three weeks or so, right? Around 100 days, you would be not bad. You wouldn't be John Mayor, Steve V. You know what I'm saying? You ain't right. You ain't you you ain't gonna be Buddy Guy, right? But you you'll be not bad. Like people won't make fun of you if you pick up a guitar. right now. A thousand hours makes you good. I I really think a thousand hours makes Oh, this motherfucker's good. This motherfucker's good. And if you do a thousand hours of anything, you'll be better than almost everyone at that. Like statistically almost everyone at that thing, right? 5,000 hours, you're [\h__\h] amazing. Like mother I mean like amazing, right? 10,000 hours then you like one of the best. than John Mayor, right? And it goes for anything you want to accomplish. So the reason because it's just math. So that's why if you track the the hours, it's going to do two things. It's going to give you a like a real game plan for you to to get good at something. And and when you look at this thing and you're not where you're supposed to be, you can look at how many hours you put in, be like, "Oh, I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be given the amount of effort I put in." Right? And when I say working on the thing, I don't mean watching videos or studying. You can do that in addition to it, but I mean actually doing the thing, right? You can read a book about swimming, but you have to get in the [\h__\h] water if you want to be Michael Phelps. You know what I'm saying? Like I can I can you can read a a book about how to play basketball, but you gonna have to get on the court if you want to golf. You know, and and this goes for all things. Making content, speaking on camera. You need reps, man. You need reps. You need lots of them. You need to track them. Sales. You need to track them. Practice. That's why me and my sales team, we practice every morning for an hour. Drilling. I'm I'm drilling these guys. Paws. Big pause every morning. And cuz I don't want them practicing on [\h__\h] clients or leads. So we we drill every morning. Every morning, right? So they they get an hour practice every day. You know what I'm saying? Right. And and and it's reps, reps, reps, reps, reps, reps, reps. Nothing but reps and you'll get good at anything and you'll accomplish anything, too. It's not even just for skill acquisition. It's like, how many hours are you really putting into this [\h__\h] So, I took my girl. It wasn't a skill thing that she wanted. She She has the skill. It was just like progress. Well, like how many hours are you have you put into this? Like really? You know, she hadn't been tracking, so we had to estimate. I'm like, yeah, I mean, that's kind of where you're supposed to be with that amount of reps, you know? Like, that's kind of where you're supposed to be, you know? Now, ask yourself, what would it look like if I if my actual work ethic matched my ambition? It would be working at capacity. It' be working at capacity every day. And capacity could be a biological thing, too. You got to take that in account. you get like too tired or you run out of energy or you get burnt out like a punk, then hey man, you might have to you might have to chill for a minute, right? Get your energy back. You know what I'm saying? But for me, I only take days off when life makes me take days off. And that's why I succeed at almost everything. I mean, I' I've had failures for sure, but most things, man, if when I go when I go all out all day every, you know, I I approach it with so much confidence cuz like, oh yeah, I'm going to win at this, you know, but there's a sacrifice cuz you can't do that in everything. You can't do you can't get good or accomplish like 20 things working at that level. So, you got to really focus and pick what you want to do. And I don't know how to tell you. You just got to say I would just say, "Hey, what do you want most?" Or what what's the one thing that if I accomplished it made everything else easier or unnecessary, you know, pick that thing? And it's capacity, man. You got to work at capacity. Do all that can be done each day. And you probably studying will help too, right? Like you got to study especially more. You need to know what to do, right? Um let's say you're trying to grow your online fitness business. I got a free ebook that'll show you how to do it. Uh the link is in the description if you want or or you're trying to be a coder then maybe you need to take some coding classes or vibe coder and take some vibe coding classes or if you want to get in great shape maybe you need to get a coach. You know getting a coach really helps. That speeds things up too. You know that that speeds things up because it's hard to see the picture when you're in the frame because then you're just doing trial and error. But if somebody gives you a road map and a framework and give you something proven then you do that. Now you're already on the path because you don't have to like guess. So getting a getting a mentor or coach will help you out tremendously cuz having a coach is kind of like a kind of like GPS, right? I if I y'all don't remember what life was like before GPS. I was driving before we had GPS and smartphones, right? And [\h__\h] would get lost. We'd have to figure out ways how to get to where we wanted to go. We would get lost. Like that was a real thing. And pull over and ask for directions and [\h__\h] right? And but now because we have the GPS, it knows where we are. It knows the quickest path to get there and all we got to do is follow directions. And that's what a what a coach will do for you, right? The coach knows where you are, probably been where you are, knows how to get to where you been, where you want to go, and the quickest route. And then what happens when you get sidetracked, right? The GPS actually puts you back on the path and reroutes you. And a coach can do that, too. So that that's way faster, right? Trying to get to somewhere you never been without a GPS, you have to do the [\h__\h] we used to do. Try to figure it out and it would take way longer. But once you put it in GPS, you just get there. That's what it's like having a coach, right? But that that have so having a coach would fit into all that can be done if you just trying to [\h__\h] rig [\h__\h] YouTube videos and [\h__\h] to come up with something. Yeah, you can do that. You'll make some progress, but like a coach is just a little a little different, you know? It's just different. Like piecing together YouTube videos would be like what we used to do before smartphones. We would go on this [\h__\h] called Map Quest and print out the directions. [\h__\h] would have like [\h__\h] loose paper trying to find out where to go, the route. And if we went off track, we'd have to figure that [\h__\h] out on our own, right? But a coach gets you there on time, right? So YouTube videos and everything is better than nothing. But if you can get a coach, that would be part of doing all that can be done, right? It's not just the effort. It's about like how how how far you want to go, how quickly you want to get there, you know? Hope this makes sense, man. Hope it has some clarity to what it takes to be successful. Uh because a lot of you guys are frustrated because you're not where you want to be in life, but you're probably where you're supposed to be giving the effort. Now, if you if you want your future to be, you know, you're living your your life right now, I'm gonna end it with this. Your life right now is a representation of all the decisions you made up until now and everything you've done up until now. Like doing something decision, right? So, your life is a representation, your current situation is a representation of every decision you made up until now. Unless you're like a baby, right? But if you're an adult or a young adult, your whole life is a representation of decisions you made up until now. If you want your future to be different than your present, then you're going to have to do things in the present that you did different than the past. I hope this video helped put you on the path to do