Why do they doubt the kids? I'm about to prove them all wrong again. I got a little problem. It's me. Going on, guys. We are here in my boy Money BS. $1.4 million. Sega studio and it's the garage as well. I I had a nice studio. I thought I could use another one for special occasions when kings and superheroes like Mr. Carter come through and pay a visit for for a period of time. First, man, let's tell tell us about the cars, man. I actually have this chauffeured vehicle and sitting in the back. It's a lot more comfortable. Let's say an Uber anyway. So, there's a It's pretty luxurious. You take a look in the back over here. There's a good amount of space back here that uh not be troubled with uh touching the seat or anything. Not bad. How much How much this cost you? Oh, you can find them for, you know, quarter million or so. Now, quarter million. That's it. Quarter million. They giving them away. only quarter million. It's a great value. There's a lot of nice features in there for quarter million. Yeah, man. This is a little different. This is uh you know, needed something was a little bit bigger that if I had multiple coaches or guests over that, you know, we're going to do training. So, there's been times we have multiple people we're picking up from the airport, needed a bigger vehicle. So, I thought this was a good vehicle for that. You know, it's like a seven seat SUV that just happens to have a twin turbo, you know, supercharged engine. This is the big dog, the Rolls-Royce Phantom. This is my favorite car in his fleet. Well, it's a little metallic purple in there. And then we had to have the center caps match, of course, cuz you can't have you can't have the paint around your center caps not matching the rest of your purple. This also happens to be the extended Phantom. So, having that extra I think it's 8.7 in $80,000 feature to have the long version. So, they call it a extended wheel basease. This is the long version with the maximum leg room in back and uh you know then the seats also recline here. This is not common for a Rolls-Royce actually to have the reclining seats. That's not a normal feature on a Rolls-Royce. That's like a $30,000 option to upgrade those seats. Uh you don't drive the seats that you can shelf or drive. Only poor people drive their own Rolls-Royce. How much this one cost? About 800,000. Oh, okay. That's with features and tags. You know, on the hood ornament, the hood armor, there's a little ring down here. You can see this little LED light. That little LED light's a over $5,000 option to light your wood ornaments well illuminated at night time. Who knows? And you know, you got a main shot with the vehicles in the background and then a zoom in on my face. Zoom in on my guest's face. Yeah. Got some marble money bags. I actually got 10. I love the money bags. 10. I have 10. They're a couple hundred lb each. You know, if you move one of those, they're solid marble and they're a couple hundred lb. You want to be more modest. And speaking of modesty. Yeah. Well, tell me about this. Well, this is a bronze statue of myself. I asked for this statue to be made of me and it was supposed to be smaller scale when I originally ordered it. It was supposed to be about a quarter of this size. It came big. Yeah. I thought, "What the hell am I going to do with a larger than-l life statue?" Yeah. Of my torso. And And I like I like the detail. It's got the AP on, you know. Yeah. AP. You got the pinball machine. I was up in here messing with this earlier. And I bought this because I thought like it's a fun thing to have down in the studio. It's like a fun little entertainment for a guest, you know, if we have a moment of downtime. It's a music box here from uh this is from 1860 and this is over 200 years old. Yeah, it's over 200 years old. True. True story. And it does a little wind up here. So this was the cutting edge of music technology, home home audio systems, you know, 210 years ago back in Germany. Yeah. This I got the shuffle board table came with the property and I was like, ah, don't throw that away. Like I'm not going to play this. And then uh then I thought, well, you know what? What if I had it repainted to match my refrigerator? Okay. What if I painted it matte black and copper so it matches the refrigerator? Well, and then what if I put my logos on the ends of it on both ends? My corporate logos. Yeah, you're supposed to keep it. Ideally, you want to get it on the four down there and score four points. Oh, I got another shot. Yes, it's harder than it looks. Pause. All right, let me see. Uh, bro, why was it important for you to to build this kind of uh garage studio? You know what, man? I I grew up poor and I didn't like that. Yeah, I feel that. I tried poverty and I thought, you know what? This is not for me. Yeah, I felt the same way. Let me try being wealthy for a while. let me let me try to like earn the best that life has to offer instead settle in for some like mediocre. It's better, right? You know, I tried both. Yeah. I that's a responsible thing to do is to like split test, you know. And after I tried poverty and then I tried like, you know, pretty pretty good level of wealth. I was like, man, this wealth stuff is so much more fun. Like way better. You can eat better tasting steaks. Mhm. You eat better steak when you're rich. You eat like have nicer cars when you're rich. You don't even drive them. you just sit in the back. Having money solves a lot of problem that not having money creates. That's a fact. If somebody wanted to start walking down that path and they wanted to learn from you how to do it, how how would they go about that? Guess what? Branders asked me to do a live training for his audience and mine. We're going to do that on April 28th, 400 p.m. Pacific time, 700 p.m. Eastern time. In that training, I'm going walk you through the 10 most important things. I call the ten commandments of wealth. Who's the right person to come to that live training? Man, in my mind, I think it would be somebody who's not only ambitious, but has the kind of work ethic that will allow them to put in the work necessary, right? Because somebody has to put in a lot of work over a consistent amount of time, but they'll be able to put in the right work and that will definitely put them down march them down that path, you know? Go ahead and click the link in the description right now. Register uh for it immediately before it fills up. So, now we're here in the second studio. I do my mentoring call over here every week. So, we sit on the couch with, you know, uh, whoever my esteemed guest, whoever my coach is that week. I've been on that couch a few times. I've been on that coach, too. But, yeah, we have other teleprompter over here. We have, um, another lighting system. Sometimes I sit at the desk. We got, you know, just little trinkets and success trinkets in the background. Some university degrees. I had to start with this GED. Oh, I didn't I didn't finish high school. So, uh, when other people was in high school, I was being a little misfit and got myself in trouble. Um, I was always kicked out of school for some sort of insubordination or funny enough, I wasn't so good at taking orders. I was a lot better at taking orders for myself than I was from taking orders from other people. I I didn't I don't get that from you. Yeah. Funny thing. Yeah. Funny thing. People change over time. They gave me the Dean Prize for building the Chicago Booth brand back then. said that, you know, meaning I had done more to contribute to the school's reputation and brand than any other student in my class at that time. For Kempo karate, this is uh this is like halfway to black belt in a nan belt system. I got five out of nine right now. So, I got I got some more work to do to get my karate up to black belt level. It's really MMA striking. Kempo karate is, you know, general MMA striking, not just traditional karate. Uh but yeah, that that belt was awarded by this blue belt. This halfway to black belt is awarded by Leoto Machita and Glover Tasher. You met Leo and Glover when you you trained with Yeah, I trained with you guys, man. That was pretty intense. Yeah, it's a it's a it's a adventure to be training with two UFC champions and have to hold yourself to that standard. Uh it was tough. It's intense, man. No, I got a few of those. I got $10 million there from Clickfunnels as a recognition of $10 million from my Money Bird mentoring program. $10 million in sales for that one program. Yeah. Over here we got the $25 million plaque. Clickfunnels. Where's my 50 million? Where's my 50 million? No, I had this for some time. I got I got my 50 million and they slow delivering my plaque. So, uh we got to contact them and get that fixed. But I should have my 50 million plaque uh from 2024. All right. So, here's the combat center, right? And tell me about this this area. Well, we you know, those belts over there, I got put in a lot of work together. I've been working on those for over 3 years. And uh so, I started grappling. I got some of the best coaches in the world to come help me with my grappling, come help me with my fighting, and you know, we need a place to do that. So, my my boxing coach, Paulie Malini, shout out to Paulie. What's up, Paulie? Paulie was five-time world champion boxer, and uh he's the one that gave it that name. Actually, you call it the All right, Derek, you ready to go to the combat center? So, it got known as the Money Bird Combat Center. So, he gave it that name originally. You got your face on here, right? Yeah, of course. Don't everybody have their face on their custommade MMA bags? Like, they don't. They should. I like to have my face on things. I had noticed. I had noticed. Another one over here. You know, this is important. This these are little reminders like your goals don't care about your excuses. If if you're the type person that you're more concerned about your excuses than accomplishing your biggest goals, don't ever expect to accomplish those goals. You know, success is not for everybody. I spent thousands of hours on these grappling mats. You spent a little time over there with me. Yeah. No, I have, man. Yeah, we spent thousands of hours. If uh I mean I got the video of all the people that been in here is like Hoy Gracie and Chuck Liddell and Tito Ortiz and I mean the who's who Rich Franklin was here last week. Uh Glover Tasher uh Gordon Ryan Gordon Ryan's the best grappler in the world ever. Mikey Museti, Jake Shields, Gilbert Burns, you know, 30 other people I'm not thinking of. I had so many world champions here choking me and twisting me up in unnatural ways that your first two years you just uh it's a tough time. It's a tough time. So, you know, this is this is a a huge sauna like and I got a couple of them. I got one over in the the main palace as well. So, uh this is second this is second sauna. But I like to go from here. We got this sauna and this you know very intense red light therapy over here. I got a big soaking tongue. So, I just fill that with cold water. Throw about 30 lbs of ice in there and have real I mean, they could be cold like 38°. Who don't have illuminated amethyst in their custom ice bath. All right. So, this is one of the best private gyms I've ever seen in my life. All right. This is better than a lot of commercial gyms I've I've been in. Better than some that I've worked in. So, tell us what's going on here. I got about 30 stations around here. We're um I just wanted to make everything anything that you could want for lifting weights to to be able to put on some good muscle. This one a friend my friend Flex Lewis sent me this. This was his personal donkey calf machine. So he had two of them in his gym in Las Vegas in the Dragon Slayer. Shout out to Flex Lewis in the Dragons Slayer gym. Well, you know, some people only got one sauna. I got a second one right here. I got the combat center sauna. Then I got this sauna right here. But my favorite thing, my favorite favorite thing is the steam room's great. The sauna are great. The cold plunge feels miserable, but you feel great later. My favorite recovery piece is the massage chairs, man. The massage chairs is a is a different level of luxury. Some people would never know the joys of having most people. Yeah. It's not for everybody. N man, it's not for everybody. You're probably going to want to click that link and join Brandon and I on April 20th at 400 p.m. Pacific, 7:00 p.m. Eastern, we're going to go through the ten commandments of wealth. You're going to want to click that link right now. After we go through that presentation and share the ten commandments wealth with you, we're going to do a Q&A and answer your specific questions. What do you think they should do, Brandy? I think they should click that link if they're serious. If you're not serious, they shouldn't click it. It's not for everybody. Is it for you?