Yo, what up? What up? It's your boy Big Brandon Carter. Uh, I was signed to a record label after college. Right after college, got signed for a record label. Well, Sony Records as a rapper. They later dropped me. I was merged with BMG. When they merged with BMG, they dropped me. But during that time, I remember I was I was like making my own beats because, you know, I play guitar, keyboard, and drums. So, I was like making my own beats using doing the production and [\h__\h] And uh this one track I needed like a really good guitarist. I needed a guitarist that was a lot better than me. So, it was this guy. He was a pro guitarist. All he did was play guitar for a living, you know? I figured it was perfect. He was dope. And we were working on the track and I was like, "Man, you I'm just I'm just not inspired today, man. I couldn't get it out." And then we kept trying and he and then I was like, "Yo, man, maybe we shouldn't do this. I'm just not inspired." And he like looked at me like and shook his head, right? This guy who's been a professional guitarist for a long time, makes a lot of money playing guitar all over the country, a professional musician who makes good money. He looked at me, I was like, "Look, man. Inspiration is for amateurs. Professionals need to be able to do it on demand." And I never forgot about that, man. Like, you know, I think it's the same way with inspiration and motivation. Just motivation in general. Like you can't mo you can't depend on being motivated all the time. You're not always going to be motivated. Motivation is is for amateurs. You know, if you're a professional, you got to be able to do it on on demand, not just when you're motivated, not just when you feel like it. Motivation is [\h__\h] It's fine. It's fun. It's fun to have motivation. It's fun to be inspired. It makes things easier, but it's not about, you know, that's not what's going to make you a success cuz you're not going to be motivated all the time. You're not going to be inspired all the time. Discipline is going to make you a success. Discipline is going to help you accomplish your goals. Discipline is going to is what's going to create lasting achievement because motivation, inspiration is fleeting. It comes and goes. Sometimes it's there, sometimes it's not. But discipline, the very definition of discipline is being able to do what you say you're going to do when you're supposed to do it, whether you want to or not. I think I [\h__\h] it up. Hold on. Here we go. Discipline is doing what you are supposed to do when you are supposed to do it, whether you feel like it or not. That's right. Discipline is doing what you are supposed to do when you are supposed to do it, whether you feel like it or not. Motivation means you feel like it. Inspiration means you're inspired to do it. Discipline means it doesn't [\h__\h] matter if you feel like it, you do it anyway. Discipline means it doesn't matter if you're [\h__\h] motivated, you do it anyway. Inspiration comes and goes. Motivation comes and goes. Discipline. Building discipline is the key to lasting success. So, how do you build discipline? It's just like any other muscle, man. It's just like your bicep, tricep, uh delta weight. It becomes stronger the more you use it. The more you exercise discipline, the stronger that your discipline muscle, a metaphor, is going to be. So the most important time to work out is when you don't feel like working out. The most important time to work on your goals is when you don't feel like working on your goals. Why? Because you train that's when you train yourself to do it when you don't feel like it because you have to do it even if you don't feel like it. So every time it'll become easier. Hope y'all understand what the [\h__\h] I'm saying. I would make this longer. I can go on this all day, but the almighty Chicago Bulls are playing the Nets tonight and I got to get to the Barclay Center. Shout out to the homie Chris Jones pump chasers for the ill sleeveless hoodie, you know. Uh I'm out here looking like I'm out here looking like a super villain with this [\h__\h] on, man. Um also, I'm looking for an intern, an apprentice. It's really Yeah, an intern or apprentice. You going to work for me for 90 days in New York? I should have a click down in uh a link below where you can see the video more about it. Uh it's 90 days unpaid, you know. Uh and after the 90 days, if you do a good job, then I'll offer you a full-time job just like it was sign. A lot of people have been complaining about it being uh well, a lot of more people, we got over 100 applicants already uh since yesterday, but a lot of people are complaining about uh not being paid. And what you got to remember is, okay, like take RSD, real social dynamics. That's a multi-million dollar business right now. All right. What people don't understand is Owen and Nick, Owen and and Papa, you know, they worked for mystery for free for a long way longer than 90 days. And that's how they learned what they needed to learn to build that business. 90 multi-million dollar business. Owen's some of Owen's interns I know and they went on to start other multi-million dollar businesses. Uh you heard a strong supplement company. It's a website. They sell strong supplements like stronger [\h__\h] than than I [\h__\h] with. But they sell it's a it's a it's a multi-million dollar business. They were interns for Owen. They learned a lot about business. Elliot has in you know what I'm saying? They worked for free and they went on and learned. It's like you guys don't you guys just don't [\h__\h] get it, man. the the the most I learned about the what I learned the most about marketing and sales is when I worked for free for Abbott Laboratories. I learned about business and hustling when I worked for the homie Salemo in DC running these streets. I did it for free. I did both jobs for free. So, it's just like if you don't get it, you don't get it. But if you do get it, it'll be a place for you to apply. And uh maybe I'll put a link to this ill ass pumpchaser shirt. Discipline is doing what you're supposed to do. when you're supposed to do it, whether you feel like it or not.