 RIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIPIP All right. I'm telling you, man, they're not out here playing fair. All right. The girl that you like, the Instagram model. I know some of these women, man, not playing fair. All right. They're cheating. Let me explain what I mean. And I'm going to show you how you can cheat to start winning. All right. Just bear with me. So all your favorite entrepreneurs, man, they're on some sort of performance enhancing many times performance enhancing drug of some some sort. Right. I'm telling you, they're not out here raw dogging this. All right. When you see these guys who are like, man, he's so productive. He accomplished so much. They may not say it. They may not talk about it. But I know these people. I'm giving you the real. They are on performance enhancing drugs. They are not out here raw dogging. I ain't met one who was. I haven't met one. Y'all seen. Listen, I'm not going to name no names, but y'all see people I'm around. Y'all see people I've been with over the years. Nobody's raw dog in this life. All right. And I'll explain to you what they are and how you can take advantage of this. All the favorite IG model, all these people, they got all sorts of physical enhancements with their surgeries, whether it's whether even if it's just fillers, Botox, right? UFC like the thick girls. They think, but they got abs, man. Those abs. That's surgical. They make they got surgeries to make the abs. I'm telling you, man, nobody's out here raw dogging who's succeeding at a high level. I ain't seen it. And I know more successful people than you. All right. Your favorite your favorite influencers mandate. Everybody's cheap. And I'm sure you got to cheat. And then we're going to talk about it in a few different categories. For one, first category is going to be performance and productivity. That's going to be category number one. Category number two is going to be overall health and aesthetics. All right. Ways you can cheat in that realm. And then the third is going to be money. Now, before I break down all three of these, it's very important that when I say cheating, I really mean giving yourself an unfair advantage. All right. And and I don't mean lying or doing anything that you deem unethical. Right. Ethics are subjective. Everybody got their own ethics. But you have to be happy with yourself. And if you're lying, I don't know anybody who's ethics allowed lying. Personal. Deep inside, everybody knows that lying is wrong. So I don't mean lying like in the fake natty era when the guys were fake natties, all that stuff. I mean, and I don't mean doing anything that you deem unethical. And it's very important that you follow those rules. Not because you want to be a good person. Even if you're a scoundrel, you need to do this. You need to follow a code of ethics. Because here's what's going to happen. Here's what's going to happen. And we're going to get into the three steps in a minute. I mean, how you can cheat in every area in a minute. How you can give yourself an unfair advantage. But it's very important you realize that if you become successful, that's going to come with a ton of criticism. Nobody gets unanimous praise. And the more success you get, the more criticism you're going to get. Right? You've got to imagine, I mean, they killed Martin Luther King, Abraham Lincoln, Jesus. Right? super successful people. More successful than any of us are going to be. Right? Like, you're not going to save the United States of America like Lincoln. You're not going to get the civil rights. You're not going to spearhead a civil rights movement. You're not, you're not going to be the son of God. Right? They killed, they killed those guys. Right? So the more successful you are, the more criticism you're going to get. All right? And if you don't, if you're not following a code of ethics that you believe in, and if you're out here lying to people and doing things that in your heart you know are wrong, you can, you can rationalize them. But I mean, in your heart, in the inside, you know that it's not right. If you get famous and you start getting all this criticism, the fact that you, you're on a deep level, if you're not following a code of ethics, you won't like yourself. You won't like yourself for real. And then that's going to start, that criticism will start to fuck with you. Like if you really fuck with yourself, if you really like you and someone criticizes you, it won't be a big deal. I mean, it never feels good. It won't be nothing, but it won't be as big of a deal. For example, if you say, yo, Brandon Carter, man, you look like a tiny Chinese woman. Right? I'm going to look at you like you crazy because I know who I am and I know what I look like. Right? But if you said, hey man, your calves are small, I might be like, ooh, because that's something I struggle with my whole life. It might hit me a little bit. You know what I'm saying? Right? So the more you like yourself, the less vulnerable you are to the criticism. It's not nothing, but you'll be less vulnerable. Again, I'm going to tell you how to cheat in a minute, but it's very important that you heed this warning because I'm like an OG in a lot of this online fitness, especially in the fitness game, but like in the online space, I'm like an OG. I've been doing this for like 15 years. People know me. You know, it's a lot of your favorite influencers, like the new school, they might have grew up on me or pause, or they grew up watching guys who grew up watching me. Right? I'm your OG's OG. And some, many times, some of these guys, they'll like hit me and they'll be like really going through it. And they won't say it, but they're doing stuff that doesn't fit with their ethics. Sometimes they'll tell me, a lot of times they'll tell me, it doesn't fit within their ethics and it's causing a lot of problems with it. Like I've seen guys, there's been a few guys over the years who've called me like, crying, you know, but they weren't living in tune with their ethics. And this is very important. Right? Because if you, if you fuck around and get successful, you're going to get a lot of criticism. Right? And I've seen it drive a few people crazy. I mean, when I, and when I say crazy, I mean, mental institutions. Like they, they actually had to go to mental institutions. They got very successful and or popular rapidly, but they hadn't done the work. They, they weren't living their truth. They didn't really like themselves as much as they may have portrayed. And when you get a lot of criticism under those circumstances, kind of start to, it fucks with you mentally. Like I've seen it put, I've seen it put people in mental institutions more than once. Right? So that's my warning. Now let's talk about cheating. Oh, and one thing, real quick, before we talk about cheating. So you got to live in tune with your code of ethics. Everybody's code. Ethics is subjective. Right? Like personally, I'm, I'm like 40 years old and I, I think it's a little weird when I see 40 year old guys dating like 18, 19 year olds. To me, that's kind of strange. Right? I wouldn't do it. I got a girl now, but if I was single, I wouldn't do that. Right? I think it's weird. It doesn't fit with my code of ethics, even though it's legal. It doesn't seem ethical to me. Right? But there's a lot of guys my age or around my age who are proud of doing that. That's their thing. You know? And it's subjective because it's, they, they, they talk about it publicly and it's, it fits within their code of ethics. It wouldn't fit within my code of ethics. Right? And that's what I mean by ethics are subjective. So things have to fit within your code of ethics. I hope that makes sense. All right. Let's get into how to achieve. First category. Performance and productivity. So when I was really working hard, you know, really trying to come up, working on coming up and I had multiple jobs and I was doing all this stuff. I've talked about it before and there was, there was, it didn't really happen until after I quit those jobs and I started my, my first business, online fitness business. You know, I was working really hard, you know, because I, you know, quitting your job is scary. Right? And going to your own business, it can be scary. You know? There's no safety net when you ain't got no safety net or nothing. So, one of the ways I was cheating or giving myself an unfair advantage was performance enhancement. Right? I had a prescription for Adderall. This is not advice. Again, what I'm saying is not, it's not advice. Right? But, you got to do what you, you got to talk to your physician to see what's appropriate. I had a prescription for Adderall and, and that really helped me out. That really, it helped me out. It made me so productive. Like, ridiculously productive. I got way more done and I was out here killing it. You know, and it really is a big part of my initial success. You know, because becoming successful is, is very difficult initially. Right? Because you got to get momentum. You got to get some motion. Right? It's kind of like a rocket ship going, leaving the atmosphere it needs. It has these big fuel tanks on the side of it. And then, you know, it needs that to get out the Earth's atmosphere. But once it gets out the atmosphere, then it drops those fuel tanks and now it can coast. You know? Every time I say that, somebody says, man, you got that from Tate. No, no, no. Me and Tate got it from a book. You got it from books that were written before either one of us was born. Anyway, Tate's my man, but I'm just saying, like, you guys need to pick up a book. Anyway, that beginning part is so hard. And, you know, I was like, man, I gotta give myself an unfair advantage. So, it was Adderall. There was another supplement called Modafinil. Modafinil's an anti-narcolepsy medication. And there's a lot of people use it for off-label use. One thing they'll do is, if you don't have narcolepsy, well, let me tell you how it works. It blocks the receptors in your brain that make you tired. Right? So, that's why narcolepsy people take it. But if you don't have narcolepsy, it kind of turns you up a little bit. Not as much as Adderall, but a little bit. So, Adderall's an amphetamine. So, it's like, it's like you're in a car and you put your foot on the gas, you go forward fast. But Daphnil's like taking your foot off the brake. You know, you take your foot off the brake, you kind of start going forward. Daphnil's more like that. I digress. Right? That really helped me. Along with caffeine and lots of caffeine. Lots of caffeine. Even if you don't want to go with the pharmaceutical route with that, right? Andrew Huberman, he was on Theo Vaughn's podcast. It was fairly recently. And he said, yo, he takes 800 milligrams of caffeine per day. This is Dr. Andrew Huberman. 800 milligrams of caffeine per day. You know what I'm saying? I take 1,000 milligrams of caffeine per day. Now. Right now. Right? You get an advantage. There's tons of studies that show caffeine improves cognitive function, improves cognition, it improves athletic performance too. If you take too much caffeine, you get kicked out in the Olympics. Right? They test for it. That's how you know it works. If you kicked out the Olympics, it's got to work. You know what I'm saying? That's not advice. I'm not saying you should take 800 to 1,000 milligrams of caffeine today. Right? I had to work my way up for it. I've been abusing caffeine since I was 16. Right? And I worked my way up to those numbers. And, but it gives me an unfair advantage. If you go out here raw dogging, you can't compete. It's going to be hard to compete with motherfuckers who got these competitive advantages. I'm just telling you, it's going to be hard to compete. Right? And before anybody says it's going to ruin my heart and everything, I had an EKG not long ago. I had all my blood work done. My blood work is perfect. Cardiovascular system perfect according to the EKG and all that shit. Right? So, it might fuck you up though. Straight up. Because you a bitch. Anyway. Yo, you got, you got to take all the advantages you can get because it's so competitive out here. It really rises to the top. Another thing you want to take is you want to consider to take. I'm not telling you what to do. nicotine in some capacity. Right? I don't, definitely don't smoke cigarettes for sure. That'll kill you. Right? But nicotine itself is not necessarily harmful. It's, it's smoking tobacco that's harmful. Right? And the main way I like to do it is like when I'm working real hard, I'm putting on a nicotine patch and then I lock in. Hermosey once said, he was on Place for Dates podcast and he said that it's, it's, it's the closest thing he's found to Adderall. I wouldn't go that far, but it's, it's powerful. It's powerful. Put that patch on and you're ready to go. You know, you're going to get way more done than his life studies have shown. Right? Here's the thing about this though. When you're cheating in this, when you give yourself an unfair advantage, right? It's not really cheating. Unless of course you're, uh, some sort of athlete that gets drug tested. You can't take a lot of this stuff. You can't, you definitely can't take Adderall. You're getting kicked out of, you know, a college team or any pro sports. Right? So that, don't do that. Right? But if you're just a regular guy, hey, do what you got to do. Anyway, um, the thing is, what you don't want to do is take these substances, even, especially the pharmaceutical ones to compensate. Right? You want to max out, you want to be maxing out what you can do natty and then add this shit on top of it to make you super. Because if you're, if you don't have good productivity habits, if you're not planning every day, planning out your days in your calendar, if you're not able to avoid distractions, if you, if you're not sleeping seven, eight hours a night, right? And you're, you take this stuff, you take these substances, you're just going to compensate for the ways you're fucking up. And this is going to make you regular. You know what I'm saying? You're going to be like, right? Because you're operating at a deficit. If this is where you would be if you were optimizing your shit, natty, right? But now you down here, those substances and those performance enhancing drugs, right? Everything I mentioned is a drug. Nicotine, caffeine is a drug, right? Those are just going to get you like close to normal. Those are just going to get you close to where you've been if you were to optimize natty. But if you are optimized natty, then you take all this other shit on top of it. Now you're superhuman. That's important. Like that's a very important part. That's a very important part. This stuff does not, I mean, it will compensate for doing shit wrong, but it's just going to make you regular. It's just going to make you, oh, a productive person. But if you're taking all the, but if you are a productive person and you take this shit, now that's when you reach the stratosphere. You get what I'm saying? That's when you take it to the next level. You get what I'm saying? It's very important. That's a very important distinction. Don't use it to cover up your sins. Use it to take it to the next level. There are also some peptides you can take. I think there's one called Camax and there's a few other ones. Listen, the thing about me with peptides is every peptide I've ever taken, I've noticed nothing. You may notice something, but I know I got it from quality sources. People I know have gotten it from the same sources and they feel they get all types of benefits from it. Maybe I'm just a non-responder. I don't know what it is, but peptides just do nothing for me. Literally nothing. Except GHK, which gave me pimples. It's supposed to make people, like y'all never see me with a pimple, right? 15 years, right? But I take some GHK from a reputable source. Like I know that it's legit and it broke me out. Other people say it makes their skin and hair better, whatever. So there are some peptides that may help you, but they don't help me for whatever reason. All right. Speaking of peptides, now it's time to move to health and aesthetics, right? And the reason we want to focus on aesthetics is because aesthetics gives you an unfair advantage, right? You will get an advantage if you are more attractive. There's an advantage. Like all the shit like Avicula we're talking about, he's right. He takes it to it. Listen, I'm not about to tell you to wear makeup. I'm going to be honest with you, right? You know what I'm saying? I'm not going to tell you to wear makeup or smash your face, but you do want to optimize what you have, right? Now, if you're a girl, real quick, if you're a girl, you need to do all that shit, do whatever you can to make yourself look better. There's no higher return on investment you can make than becoming as hot as possible. If I was a girl, I'd have been on the operating table on my 18th birthday. I'd have been saving up since I was like 12, right, for that moment, and I would have gotten every surgery, every surgery imaginable, like on some Kim Kardashian shit, everything I can get, like the Kardashians. I'd have got it all. all of it, right, because there is no, there's no better return on investment a woman can make than their beauty. Female beauty is a, female beauty is a big part of the American economy, right? I'm telling you, man, it's a huge part of it. I mean, like, right, that's why we do what we do, guys. If there was no women, if there was no women, we'd all just, we'd still be in caves, motherfucker. There'd been no reason to advance, all right? Anyway, if you're a guy, you don't get the same return on investment. I'll just be honest with you, the returns are not the same, but you do want to max it out, right? Because being more attractive is better than being gruesome, all right? So, so for me, right, most of it gets, most of the looks maxing for guys, to be honest, most of the looks maxing, you just got to get ripped. Like, if you just get ripped, that's going to do, like, 90%, 90% of the job. That's going to help you get the jawline, it's going to help with, obviously, the way your body looks, you know, it's going to, getting ripped is like 95% of it. You won't have to smash your face or wear makeup the shit, you know, get ripped, groom yourself, you know, get a haircut, you know what I'm saying, wear some decent clothes, you don't have to be fucking Gucci, but like, shit that fits, you know, here's a cheat code, suits are cheaper, like, if you get like a suit and you get it tailored, you're going to get more attention than if you wore like designer shit, like straight up, you're going to get more just, if you're fit and you wear a suit and it's tailored, oh my God, you're going to get so much more attention than wearing designer shit, right? I realized that when I worked at the Prada store, they gave me a suit, I was security at the Prada store and they gave me a Prada suit, they tailored it to me and I would walk around New York and it was a different kind of love I'd get in the streets, you know what I'm saying? Like, it was just like, you know, people would like move out my way and say excuse me, like, it's a weird thing, it's talked about in Robert Cialdini's book, Influence, there's like a little part about how they had a fucking, a guy who dressed regular and he would cross the street at red lights and some people would walk with him, you know, when people cross the streets some people would walk with some people walk with him and some wouldn't. When they put that motherfucker in a tailored suit, like, almost everybody started walking with him with a red light. It had some sort of authority. Anyway, that's just a cheat code I wanted to share with you. Yeah, I remember once, man, I was living in Queens, man, and on Queens Boulevard, there was like a C-Town, it was called a C-Town grocery store, and on the side of it, man, they had to spot that sold suits. So I went in there and bought a grocery store suit, got that shit tailored. Yo, I was looking fly in that shit. I was getting compliments. That shit was like $50, man. It fell apart. Like, don't do that. It fell apart after like the third wear. But those first two wears, I was doing my thing. Anyway, yeah, groom yourself, do whatever you can, but there's some other shit, like, you got to do the regular shit first, right? Before we start cheating, when it comes to health and fitness, get ripped, fucking 10% body fat or below, motherfucker. It's not hard. Stop eating as much, bitch nigga, and stop eating candies and cake like a motherfucking child. track your macros, dipshit, right? And groom yourself, get a fucking haircut, shave if you need to, right? You know, I started shaving my head. Like, yo, I can grow hair. A lot of people don't know that. It's probably a little thin on top, because I'm fucking old. I have as much hair as the average 43 year old man, right? Little thin on top, you know what I'm saying? But I got it, right? But I've been shaving my head since I was 16, just because it was easy to stay well-groomed. Clean shaving, shave my head, well-groomed. You know what I'm saying? Like, that way, so just be well-groomed. Get yourself some clothes that fit. Go to the tailor, man, and you got this. and get 10% body fat. You got that? It's 95% of weight. Then you start, now you're regular, now you're good, now we want to start adding the other shit, you know? And what you need, the way you can cheat here, like if you a girl, you want to start getting filler, fucking Botox, all the things, man, wax your, wax your fucking body, your whole body, especially if you're Latino, man. You know, you know why. Okay, let's wax everything, ho. All right, guys, how you want to start cheating, my fault. Listen, I'm not against guys getting cosmetic shit done. You know, I don't know if I would go as far as like cosmetic surgery, but listen, I say, I guess because I'm old, I get targeted in ads, and I see some shit where these doctors put the fucking filler or whatever in God's faces, and they're like, I'm going to fucking change, right? Do whatever you got to do, but the main things you need to do, try the peptides. Honestly, try it. Try the ones you feel like it's safe, do your research. Peptides did nothing for me. Every one I've ever tried, I felt nothing. All right, so that's me, but some people have great success with peptides, you know, one of my, I, me and my boy, we got Tessa Moreland from the same place, same place, he noticed great results, I noticed nothing. A lot of that might be because I'm so dialed in, that's what I really, I mean, that's been the hypothesis for people I talk to, like I'm so dialed in that, you know, how much extra can you get, right? tracking everything I eat, tracking how much water I drink, tracking my sleep, you know, how I'm dialed in, my man's not as dialed in, so he got some, he got some benefits from it, I did not, right? Performance enhancement, and then, so get the peptides, if you're over, if you're over, oh, if you're 35 or older, get your testosterone testing, it's very important, get your testosterone testing, listen, man, every man's testosterone will start to drop at age 30, I don't care what kind of diet, every time I say this, man, you just gotta eat right, shut your bitch ass up, you don't know nothing about biology, dipshit, right? I don't care what you eat, at age 30, every man's testosterone, on average, will start to decline, there are some outliers, right? But, this is probably not you, all right? Get your testosterone tested, do everything you can to increase it naturally, but if you can't get it up naturally, if you can't get it up naturally, see if you qualify for testosterone replacement therapy, right? Now, if you're doing real testosterone replacement therapy, a lot of guys ask me, yo, can I, should I get on TRT, should I get on TRT? You can't just get on TRT, eh, if you're going to a real place, like a real doctor, he's going to, they got to see if you qualify, right? Let me tell you, I'll tell you a story. My brother, he's, my brother's in his 60s, right? And, he got on TRT, like, I don't know, in his 50s, maybe? I don't know, I was, I don't feel like doing the math right now, but I was around 30 years old when he went on TRT. He was telling me how he felt so much better, he had so much energy, he felt so much alive, right? And, and he started losing fat, building muscle, all that shit, and he was like, yo, man, you should get tested, see if you can do it. So, I went to, like, a clinic, right? And I got my testosterone tested, and they was like, nah, man, we can't give you TRT, testosterone is too high, like, naturally. Like, my shit was, like, in the 900 or something, like, naturally, right? So, they said no, right? So, you can't really, at least in my experience, you can't decide you want to get on TRT, you have to qualify, right? But if you qualify, get on that shit. You may want to try to see if you can raise it naturally, right? Because that's cheaper, and, you know, the side effects of TRT, you got to stay on it forever, really, you know? But I made the decision, you know, just a few years before I turned 30. I was close, I'm 40, I was close to 40, and, man, you know, my testosterone was, like, in the, around 400, which is not, like, crazy low, it's within what they call the normal range, but it's super low end of the normal range, right? And I wanted to get it up to the upper range, now my shit is back at 900, like, when I was 30. You know, I keep it around that range, 900 or so, and, man, I feel so much better, I have so much more energy, I'm making more money, I'm healthy, I get my blood work done every 90 days, I'm 100% healthy, and I look pretty similar, right? I didn't put on a bunch of muscle, because I was already muscular, it wasn't a problem for me, it was just energy, and it's more than the productivity, but it's cheating. Now, again, to be in line with my ethics, I told everybody about it up front, before I even went on it, I did a whole documentary about it, I showed my blood work, I interviewed my doctor, guys tried to call me out, making videos about it, saying I was on it the whole time. The reason y'all thought I was on it the whole time is because you've never seen a motherfucker like this, you've never seen a motherfucker who's been tracking everything he ate every day for two decades, tracking how much water he drinks every day, two gallons of water every day for two decades, you know what I'm saying, making sure he gets one gram of protein, making sure, tracking it every day for two days, you've just never seen nobody do that shit, so I get it, I get it, it was abnormal, but when I went on it, I showed my blood work, I did everything and I was transparent so I felt good about it, I wasn't hurting by people saying whatever they were saying, but it improved my health, my doctor prescribed it to me, like it was medicine, I wasn't trying to get bigger and stronger, it was medicine, you know, I felt so much better and to this day I feel way better, I feel like I'm, I feel like I'm back in my 20s, you know, or maybe 30s, that was like my prime, I feel like I'm back in my 30s, you know, and you need to check that if you're younger too, every guy I know in their 40s, without exception, a lot of guys in their late 30s, without exception, all of them who are crushing it, I have not met one who is not on TRT, not met one, I swear to God I have not met one, right, for some reason, fucking dipshits in the comments every time I say, you don't need that, you can just do that, yo, you've never been an old man, bitch, nigga, alright, and, and, yo, bro, not everybody will admit it, people will tell me, but not everybody is going to admit it to you, you're just some fucking asshole, right, like, motherfuckers will tell me, I have not met one guy, in their late 30s or older, who's like really crushing it on the high level, in business, I'm not even talking about physicality, I'm talking about in business, who's not on TRT, I have not met one, take that to mean whatever you want it to mean, I've not met one, right, oh, real quick, and, and again, with the, with the thing before, somebody, somebody asked me on Instagram once, he said, I saw your video, because I made a video similar to this before, I saw your video on cheating, does that mean that you were fake natty before, no nigga, I just track my macros every day for 20 years, listen, you don't, that's the one thing, man, before you, honestly man, before you start getting on peptides, and before you start getting, trying to fuck with testosterone, or any of this such shit, track your macros, make sure, for a significant amount of time, six months, you will make more progress in six months than anyone you've met, every day, it's like really the cheat code, I don't understand why everybody doesn't do it, it's not difficult, it's just putting numbers in the phone, I heard, I've been hearing influencers say, it's not sustainable, and I'm like, what do you mean it's not sustainable, I've been doing it for two decades, it's not sustainable for you, because you a bitch, don't impose your limitations on the rest of us bitch nigga, you know what I'm saying, say you can't do it, say it's not sustainable for you, I've been doing this shit, you know, and it's super easy, just putting numbers in the phone, it's not difficult, you know, if you think that's difficult, I don't know what to tell you man, I know exactly what to tell you, you a bitch, you ain't very tough, so obviously, try that for a few months, I know mostly, I know almost none of y'all do it, I know almost none of y'all do it, yo, I remember I was watching this one video with Jeff Nippert, he had a video about steroids, and at the end of the video, he said, alright, so what I'm gonna do for the next few months is I'm gonna be diligent about tracking all my macros and every set and everything I eat, everything I drink for X amount of months to see how much progress I can make naturally, I was like, what the fuck nigga, what you been doing this whole time, you Jeff motherfucking Nippert, the science nigga, when you just been eating anything, putting anything in your mouth like a whore, I ain't trying to diss him Jeff, but I was just shocked that if he's not doing it, I know y'all not doing it, that's what I mean to say, I'm not trying to diss Jeff, but I was just, I was taking it back, like fuck, you been doing this whole time Jeff, and then he went through the experiment, he gave an update, and he had made mad progress, and as somebody who had been lifting for a long time made progress, right, because the more, the longer you lift, the more difficult it is to put on muscle, he made a ton of progress in like record time for him, and I'm like, motherfucker, what you been doing the whole time, and I've been doing it for 20 years, that's why y'all thought I was fake net, anyway, I digress, track your macros before you fart, before you inject yourself with Chinese research something, and then, but yo, do whatever you can to give yourself an unfair advantage, like I'm not saying not to do the peptides, I'm telling you to track your, to do all the other shit, then do it on top of this, a lot of guys are taking Rana and all this other shit because they don't want to, they don't want to track their macros and do the regular shit, you know what I'm saying, like, that's going to make you regular motherfucker, if you're acting, if you're, if you're behaving below standards, and you're getting below standard results, and then you, like, add this other shit, you're just going to be what you could have did if you were natural, I mean, you're right, but if you are doing everything right at the natural level, then you add that shit on top of it, that's what makes you superhuman, you know what I'm saying, that's what the pro bodybuilders do, right, they fucking, they're on point with everything, and then they throw the gear on top of it, and then they, right, however, I know people on real fucking gear, who's been on real gear, like, peptides ain't got shit on gear, I know people on real gear, you know what I'm saying, and they look like shit, they look like shit, right, because they don't fucking track the macros, their diet's not on point, you know, they look like shit, or they look regular, right, but I ain't never seen nobody do roids, and look exceptional, without having other shit, some level of having their exercise and diet on point, anyway, now it comes to making money, how do we cheat here, well, we gotta give ourselves unfair advantage, right, we don't wanna chill, obviously, you can't make money, people have to give it to you, and they have to give it to you, in, in exchange for goods or services, that they find of equal or greater value than the currency they're exchanging for, right, you actually can't make money, people have to give it to you, right, so, coming up with your own product or service, I don't have time for that right now, right, that's just, it's too broad, it can be anything, I made my first million as an online trainer, if you wanna learn how to do that, I got an ebook in the description to show you how to do it, I've taught over 15,000 people how to go to an online fitness business, you can be next, you know, click the link in the description and find out more information about that, but, I'm gonna, I'm gonna assume you have a product or service that you're selling, maybe you have your own business, or, maybe even you work for someone else, right, everything I'm about to say is still gonna apply, you gotta give, the way you're gonna give yourself an unfair advantage is to have leverage, right, and one of the, there's a few different ways you can have leverage, right, one, you can have actual, like, money, you can have a bunch of, a bunch of money, right, you know, if you have money, if you got a ton of money, that's huge leverage, like, for example, you know, I make a lot of money in the stock market, right, but, that's because I got money, right, you know what I'm saying, I got money, like, I make just dividends off the, the stocks that I have in there, right, if you got money, then you can buy a bunch of real estate, you know, it, I don't have to say that, you can use money to make money, I don't, I don't think I have to explain how that works, right, that's one form of leverage, but another form of leverage is media, media, for example, you're watching this on social media, YouTube is like a social media platform, Instagram, TikTok, media, media is so powerful because that's how you can get, remember, people have to give you money but they got to know about it, they got to know about your product and service, right, and if you, if you are in control of some sort of media at some capacity, then you can, you have more opportunities to get money from people, you can, you know, you can advertise yourself, right, people can get your name out there and this is why you see billionaires buying media companies, right, Jeff Bezos bought the Washington Post, right, I don't think he wanted to get in the newspaper business because it's some fucking hot new business to fucking run, nah man, you know what I'm saying, he knew it was a dying media but they still had a lot of media distribution, now he can control how shit works, you know what I'm saying, he started the Amazon Prime Network, right, now he's got a fucking channel, right, it's his channel, right, it's important because now you can control, you can control eyeballs, right, media is about eyeballs, right, getting people, attention, attention, getting the attention, it's all, I hear people say, man, it's the attention economy, it's always been that, right, it's always been that before the internet existed, right, the reason radio was free because there was like, people paid for commercials because people were watching it, and more people watched, I'm listening to it, the more people listen to your, the more people listen to a radio show, the higher they can call, they can charge advertising because of the attention it got, right, that's why it's called so much for a Super Bowl ad because it gets so much attention, so many people are watching, it's always been an attention-based commodity, right, then, it again, so, this is why Elon Musk bought fucking Twitter, right, because now he can control it, he can shape it, you know, he can control the media, it's very important, right, now, me and you aren't going to buy, buy media companies, but we have some advantages, right, we can advertise on social media, right, we can run Instagram ads, you know, Facebook ads, we can run, you know, X ads, TikTok ads, YouTube ads, right, we can run advertisements to make money, I mean, I'm sorry, we can run advertisements to get attention, and then convert that attention into the sales, or you can build it organically, and that's probably, like, the biggest advantage you can have, man, the advantage you can have, right, this is open to everyone, being able to build a social media presence, it's the biggest advantage, right, this is why Kylie Jenner is famous, like, I don't even know, I, I never heard this woman talk, I'll be honest with you, I never heard this woman talk, but she's a billionaire, because she's got so many followers, right, she was able to come out, like, I had never, I didn't really know who she was until I found out she was a billionaire, right, you know, because I wasn't a target, but she had so many millions of followers, she came out on her line, she had all these, her makeup line, she had all these people giving her attention, so she can just advertise to them freely, whenever she wanted, boom, she's a billionaire, right, Kim Kardashian, right, it's not, it's, you know, sometimes people are like, man, I'm not a social media guy, or I don't take social media seriously, I'm like, yo, man, social media can make you a billionaire, we've watched social media make people billionaires, with a beat, like, why wouldn't you take it seriously, it's the easiest, it's the, it's the easiest leverage there is, you know what I'm saying, it's the easiest form of leverage, to make money, I'm telling you man, the other form of leverage is skill, like, if you're really good at, we're going to come back to social media, but, the three forms of leverage are money, media, and skill, like, if you are really skilled, like, really skilled, it's easy to make money, right, for example, if I have two sales people, and one is twice as good as the other, right, his conversion rate is twice as good as the other, they can work the same amount of time, take the same amount of calls, but this person is going to, the person is going to make, wait, twice as much money, because he has more what, skill, and then that's going to compound, right, because I'm going to give him more calls, than I'm going to give the other person, because he's converting more, so now he's going to get more calls, because he's converting, it makes sense for me, right, so, like, skills compound, right, if you're really good at basketball, then you, you might be at the fuck, you could be like, uh, fucking Kyler Hero, you pay millions to play, play a game, right, because his skill is so high, you know what I'm saying, it's like, bam, out of bayou, right, skill is the other form of leverage, it's very important, right, if you got that, now, that's not an easy one to build, it takes fucking decades, it takes a long time to build skills, right, depending on what level of skill, you know what I mean, the easiest form of leverage, is social, is media, and for you and me, social media, you get what I'm saying, like, if you can build your social media up, it'll be easier to sell anything, your real estate, even if you got your own business, or you work for someone else, if you're just a real estate agent, but you build up a huge social media, it's going to be easier for you to sell houses, motherfucker, it's going to be easier for you to sell houses, look at Ryan Serhan, right, he was a broker for someone else, built his social media up, then he started, he was able to start his own brokerage, right, it's all built off the back of his social media, like, it's all built, I mean, I think he was on some TV shows, some shit as well, but that's media as well, right, social media, man, it builds things, man, it really, it really helps, it really, really helps, it, it, it's, like, I made my first million, advertising, on social media, without, without paying, I wasn't even buying ads at the time, I made my first million, and the only advertising I did was social media, YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook, at the time, I wasn't even fucking with Twitter, right, and that's how I made my first million, right, so you really got to focus on building your social media, and the way you do that, now, is volume, high volume, but it's got to be, like, quality, it's not, here's the thing about, some people say, man, you need quality over quantity, yeah, the better the quality, the better, right, but it's not quality, or quantity, it's quality, quality comes from quantity, right, think about it, when you want to get good at anything, what do you do, you do more of it, you need reps, you want to get a good playing the guitar, you need some fucking hours, on that shit, you know what I'm saying, you need to put in the hours, it's like that with social media too, you got to get better, and better, better, better, better, better, better, now, a good advantage we have, is AI, AI can help you refine your shit, and make it better, off the top, I got a free guide, click the link in the description, to show you how to grow your social media, with AI, it's a brand new guide, right, like, I just put it together, and I think you'll find it beneficial, but, if you build up your social media, that will give you an unfair advantage, in business, I'm telling you, it'll give you a huge, unfair advantage, in business, I don't think I would have, I know if it wasn't for social media, I wouldn't have became a millionaire, the way I did, I'd have to find another route, and, if you can harness, if you can learn to harness this power, it's really, it'll change your life, man, it'll change your life, it'll change mine, and, I love it, and, I feel like I'm about to start rambling, if I keep going, so I'm gonna stop here, yeah, 45 minutes, that video's long enough, laughing,