fear is stopping you from going after the things you really want most in life. Like you're kind of stuck. And today we in that so you can stop being a [\h__\h] and start being a real ass. But you got to conquer fear. And in this video I'm going to show you the one thing you need to do to finally overcome fear once and for all so you can go after your goals and start living your dreams. We got to really understand the psychology of fear or the psychology of why anyone does anything. So, Sean Freud, he was a co-ed up pervert, but he was also the father of modern psychology. And he had something called the pain pleasure principle. What old Sean said was that the reason anybody does anything is they're either either moving towards pleasure or away from pain. And this is perceived pleasure or perceived pain. So, it might not even be real. A lot of times your pleasure is on the other side of fear. You have to go through that fear in order to accomplish your goals. So, right now, you guys have fear of failure, fear of embarrassment. You got to get past that to make more money, start a business. Some of y'all scared to post online, you know, to ris some hoe. Are you scared of rejection, right? I'll put that over here. Rejection. So, what we have to do is find a way to overcome this fear in order to get to the goal. Now, remember, people move do anything because of perceived pain or perceived pleasure. So, we have to change our outlook on the things that scared us. What you need to do is if fear is a problem, you can take a piece of paper, write out what your goal is, what your goal is, what your fear is. Let's say you want to start business, start business, right? Your fear is maybe failure. So here's what I like to do is I like to run through this exercise and I say, what's the worst that can happen? I don't try to minimize the fear. Let's maximize the fear. Let's see exactly how bad it can be. And I'll explain why in a minute. Fear, fear. What happen what will happen if you fail? You might lose money, you might get embarrassed, you might waste time. So, you want to tackle these one by one. Let's say you lose money. You need to think, is this something that you can handle? If I'm talking to somebody and like I I I mentor a lot of people and I I would say something to them like, "Okay, so what's the worst can happen?" They'll say, "Oh man, I'll lose money." Let's take that one. I say, "How much money would you lose?" "All your money, right?" And I try to make it worse worse worse as possible. And then they'll typically say, "Well, not all my money, but how much money would you lose?" And then they'll tell me some number and I'll say, and remember I'm trying to make it worse. Is that something you'll ever be able to financially recover from? And they'll say, "Well, yeah, I'll be able to financial cover." Okay. How long will it take you? Is this will this be like years of financial ruin? Decades? Like, how bad would it be? Right? Cuz I'm I'm trying to make it worse. Maybe like a few months, a year at the most. Okay. Few months, a year at the most. Let's say it's a year. What would that mean for you? Are you not going to have enough food to eat? How bad is it going to be? And then they'll probably say something, oh man, you know, I just won't be able to buy Gucci belt or something, right? Like they So I'll be like, "Okay, so are you saying you will be able to handle this if it is the worst happen or you won't be able to handle it?" And they almost always they almost always say, "Yeah, I'll be able to handle it. It'll just be tough." I'm like, "Ah, now we've gotten to the root of this. Oh, cool. Boom. We can handle you losing some money. We can scratch that off." All right. What about getting embarrassed? What's that going to mean for you? What's that going to mean for you? like how embarrassed would it be? It's going to ruin your reputation forever. And it was like, no, it won't ruin my reputation forever. Well, what will be the effects of it? I just will feel bad. And it was like, oh, well, like it won't really affect my life at all. And I'll be like, oh, so you're saying it'll just be like a feeling that you don't like, but nothing tangible. Can you handle that? Can you deal with that? And like, yeah, I can deal with it. It just be tough. All right, cool. So, boom, we can scratch that off. Then we go to wasting time. What would that mean for you if you waste time? How's that going to [\h__\h] up your life? Again, remember I'm trying to make it worse. Do you need to do this with yourself? I'm trying to make it worse when I'm coaching somebody. And it be like, no, no, it just will it'll just be like kind of a setback. It'll slow me down trying to accomplish my goal. Like, how much will it slow you down? Like, will you be able to [\h__\h] do it or or no? Like, yeah, I'll still be able to do it. It just it'll take longer. How much longer? And like, uh, whatever. They'll say some [\h__\h] number that doesn't mean anything. It's like, how big of a deal would that on a scale of 1 to 10? And they would typically say, oh, it's not a big deal. Cool. So, we can take our wasting time. You can do that with almost all your goals. What we're trying to do is by really putting in perspective, we're trying to put it in perspective cuz remember people move they move away from perceived pain and towards perceived pleasure. I'm trying to change your perspective on it. And that's what you need. You need to change your perspective on it so you can get over here because if if we can change the perspective then find the right tool. We can make this not as big of a deal. And now this this thing that was a big deal is a small deal. And that's enough for you to step over cuz we put it in what? We change your perspective. The way you look at it. Like if I'm looking at something like this, it looks huge. But if I put it way over here, it's like not a [\h__\h] big deal anymore. You have to change your perspective on the fear. And you do that by running through these questions. How bad will it be? Like really, how bad would it be? What is what is that going to mean for your life? And can you handle it? Ask yourself those three questions. Now, every once in a while, you're going to come up with something and you're going to say, "How bad it can be. How's it going toffect your life? Can I handle it?" And the answer is going to be no. No. Said I put all my money on the Miami Dolphins winning the Super Bowl this year. If that hits, man, I'mma be rich. A [\h__\h] trillionaire. What's the worst going to happen? I lose everything. How's that going to affect my life? Probably going to go to jail cuz I can't pay child support. Can I handle it? No. So, we don't do that. And when you get one of those things, yeah, you just don't do that thing. [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] Let's move on to something else. And the and the beauty of that is now you you're not stressing over it. It's like, oh, I'm just not going to do that. Can't handle it. Fine. But most things you can handle. Starting a business, posting online, you just hoit, right? But once you run through this exercise, what's the worst that can happen? How is it going to affect my life? And can I handle it? Boom. Now, the fear is not it's not gone, but it should be minimized. And it should be enough for this guy to step over it and move towards what he wants to go to actually go for. It's very effective strategy. Like I've seen people who were [\h__\h] scared, sweating like a [\h__\h] in church. They were scared to do something, but once I run them through this exercise, then they're feel braver. It's like, okay, I can handle it, right? It changes their perspective. And that's what you need to do. Now, that doesn't mean you'll succeed. And because it doesn't mean you succeed, we have to take another step. Okay? Now that we know what the worst that can happen, well, and we know that we can handle it if it happens. Now, we need to make a game plan to make sure the worst that can never happen. How do we do that? Again, we can go back to our list. We'll go over here, right? Scared, fear of failure, embarrassment, rejection, lost time, right? Losing money, right? Just failure in general. How do we make sure we don't fail? This is when we need to make a plan. You might have seen me do this analogy before in the past, but you still watching videos on how to get rid of failure. So, it obviously didn't work for you. Shut the [\h__\h] up and do it this time, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] what you're going to do is imagine there's a bug in your house. In your house, not mine. He's chilling. He's chilling in some dirty dishes. [\h__\h] bug [\h__\h] Starting a family, a happy family in your home. What most people do, they do the equivalent of, you know, maybe trying to swat it. Got to swat this bug. Dude, they'll throw a chanc What if we bomb the building? I know I'm a fantastic artist. Try not to get distracted by that. We We drop a bomb on the building. We definitely killed a bug. And maybe a bomb is too excessive. Maybe we fumigate the building. We killed a bug. And what this example illustrates is most people do what they think is required to accomplish the goal. What I want us to do is put in enough effort to make failure impossible. We need to make a plan not to accomplish the goal. We need a plan to make failure impossible. Let me give you another example. A lot of y'all know I I play guitar and variety of other instruments. I had this gig where I singer was paying me to to play guitar for her at the show and I wasn't familiar with the music. It was a lot of different chords that I wasn't as familiar with like jazz chords that were kind of uh it had some complexity. I went to my guitar teacher at the time and we was running through the set and it was taking me a while to get it, but then I got it and I was excited because I got it once. He said, "Listen, Brandon, I'm excited for you that you got it. You got it that time." Amateurs practice till they get it right. Professionals practice until they can't get it wrong. Like instead of practice until you get it right, you practice you can't get it wrong. And that's how I practice that. And obviously, it was amazing show. We need to come at this with that same sort of ferocity. What kind of effort will we have to put in to make sure we don't fail? And then you would need to make that plan. How do you make that plan? I think you need to write out everything that you need to do to accomplish that goal. And when you're making a plan, there's two types of task. There are one-time tasks and recurring tasks. Right? So, let's say you want to start a business. One-time task are get LLC, maybe you get in number, EIN number, set up bank account, [\h__\h] of that nature. Recurring tasks are prospecting, lead nurturing, filming ads, right? Cuz if you, you know, you you want to be making creatives all the time, it's going to be different for every business, right? Posting to social media. These you have to do all the time, probably every day. And now we need to plan this out. So with the onetime task, all we need to do is set a date for these, right? We set a date when we want these accomplished and when, most importantly, when we're going to do them. So you want to think about how long is it going to take you to do LLC? [\h__\h] 30 minutes, right? EIN, [\h__\h] 30 minutes. Then you got to wait for it to come. Set up bank account. [\h__\h] few hours. walk to the bank, set up bank account once you get your EIN in and and LLC and your articles of incorporation. Boom. Little [\h__\h] like that. When you're going to do it, and then put that in your calendar. And then these these recurring tasks, these need to be in your calendar all the time, right? So, if you look at my calendar, I plan every hour of every day. This is what it looks like for the the month, the month view. Every hour is accounted for. This is tomorrow. Boom. There's like just a little bit of white space, but I'mma fill that up tonight. You know what I mean? Cuz I plan every hour of every day. Think about how much more you get done if you choreograph your life like that. How much more effective you'd be. You can use a tool we have called the victory vision planner. So the victory vision planner is a free notion template. This is I use this myself and I made it available for you guys. Let's check this out. So let's it's filled with dummy data. But let's say you put your goal here. Then you put all the task related all the one time task related to your goal here. And the beauty is you can put a date on it. You you can you can add whole notes to this [\h__\h] This is dope. And then you can do that for all your task. And then what we have here is month is now you have the the date. You can see everything you got to do for the month this month. So you put that in your actual calendar. Put it in your calendar when you're going to do these things. And mostly of your success is going to become from your daily test and that's in the success tracker. This is dummy data you're about to see. And you can add to this, right? But you can ask how many hours you worked on your goal, what day of the week it is. And then I have some other stuff in here for your calories, you know, cuz you probably got fitness goals too, right? your calories you burn, you know, if you worked out, blah, blah, blah, how much money you made. And then we have a dynamic chart that populates like how much money you made each day. This is your weight. So, it's dynamic. It moves with what's in here. That's free. The link is in description. Think about what we did. We first we minimized the fear of the worst that can happen. Then, we made a plan that if we accomplished it, it would be impossible to fail. If we did everything in a plan, it would be impossible to fail. Then we put that plan in writing on our victory vision planner and we put all the steps in the calendar. Once you've done that, how much fear do you think you'd have? Like probably way less cuz you got a rockolid plan at this point and you know you can handle the worst. If you do these things, I promise you, you will not have almost any fear. And if you do have fear, it won't be enough to stop you from going after your goals. You can download the victory vision planner for free. And there's another video on how to use it better somewhere around here. and how to use your calendar better to accomplish your goals. All right.