Yo, what up? What up? It's your man B Brandon Carter. I'm here with my homie uh James Swan, man. Former for sport former I'm here my man James Swani former Sports Center anchor. Y'all might have seen him when it was back when it was T-Bo time anchor sports center. Uh but now he's the creator of this new uh this new product, new challenge, the the no alcohol challenge, man. 30-day no alcohol challenge. 30-day no alcohol challenge. Yeah. Can you tell me more about that? cuz I know we talked about it a little bit. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I used to I'm Australian, Australian American, so I grew up in Australian culture where you drink alcohol and it's, you know, you have beers and it's part of the culture, right? And then uh backers Fosters. No one drinks Fosters in Australia. That's false advertising. Everybody's walking around drinking Fosters. And we don't put shrimps on the barbie either. No, no, we don't do it. We call them prawns. Damn. All right. Yeah. But I just Yeah. In 2010, I just I took a 30-day no alcohol challenge and I lost weight. My skin got better. I kind of got ripped and I felt really good and I just went bugger. I'm just going to keep going. And that's now it's been 5 and 1/2 years. So, really? Yeah. I just started and and uh now I've just been inspiring other people to take a break from drinking alcohol. And a lot of things for people it's like it's so built into our culture, right? And it's people don't think that they can go out on a Friday and Saturday night and socialize with friends without drinking alcohol. But the alcohol makes you fat. It also it's alcohol is a poison, right? Um and so your skin looks really dry. Um you know, you don't get enough sleep. It's a lot of health problem. The quality is the quality is messed up. Yeah. So I don't tell people they got to quit alcohol forever. I just say quit for 30 days. See how you feel. See how you feel and then hopefully that reexplores your relationship with alcohol. It's kind of a cool experiment to run probably. You know what I mean? I would imagine cuz I'm about to do some other experiments. cuz I'm I'm probably about to do like I'm trying to I'm about to go I might go vegan for 30 days just just to see who then but like or like I say that to say like these kind of things are cool things to try and see how they see how it makes you feel you know see right cuz everything's kind of hypothetical until you go apply to your own life. Yeah. Well, I mean like I just I started out wanting to do 30 days and I lost 13 lbs in 30 days. How much were you [\h__\h] drinking, man? I mean, I wasn't drinking that much, but I mean, I was drinking on the weekends. I would call myself a binge drinker, right? So, I would drink on a Friday night. I drink on a Saturday night. I'd have a Sunday session where I'd have three or four drinks. Midweek I wasn't drinking that much, but I was drinking a fair bit like on a Thursday, Friday, Saturday night, right? Maybe Sunday afternoon. And then I took a few days off. I was never an alcoholic and never had a problem, but it was enough that my face was puffy. I couldn't get rid of that little beer gut in the front. You know the pouch that just sits over your over your belt? I know of it. Yeah, exactly. I know of his existence. Talking to the dude. And so, you know, when I did this 30-day challenge, I was like, "Damn, I lost the pouch." My people were commenting on how my face had looked slimmer and I looked better. These crows feet that you get around here, if as soon as you stop drinking alcohol for 30 days, the crows feet just disappear. It's kind of like getting a Botox injection without getting a Botox injection. Why? Why? Why you Well, the alcohol dehydrates you. And the other thing is alcohol is a poison, right? It's a poison that doesn't kill you. Obviously, too much of it does, but that poison just saps all of the moisture out of your face, right? And out of your skin. So, after 30 days when you give yourself a break, the face just rejuvenates all the skin. All the whole body just rejuvenates. Your body's not working hard to try and break down the alcohol and the crap food that you usually eat when you when you're drinking the alcohol. And so you get this glow to your face, you know, your just skin looks better. And then um the other thing is that you because you sleep better, that improves your skin as well. And it improves your whole health. Sleep proves your whole health. And then uh then you just figure out, hey, I can get up at 7:00 a.m. on a Saturday or Sunday and now I'm going to go hiking or I'm going to go to the gym or I'm going to get fit. And it it just changes your whole outlook. You know, you're not sleeping in and dragging your ass out of bed being hung over. And you don't really need it. Like it's kind of cool. A lot of guys use it as a crutch, you know, social situations, you know, or they just feel like they need they just need it, you know, or like everyone's But like I don't really drink that much at all. What What do you drink? When When do you drink it under what circumstances? All right. Like I like to drink I like drinking rum, but I like it so much that I try not to drink it cuz like I could I'll drink it like I acquired a taste for it. So like I'll drink it like to the point where it's like, you know, you know what I'm saying? I'm over here looking like Lindsay Glowan in the middle [\h__\h] street. But uh I uh so so when I do drink, I when I go out, I'll probably drink either gin or tequila just because uh I don't like it as much so I won't get as drunk, you know? Does that make sense? Like tequila is actually the the the the best alcohol you can drink because it has the fewest calories. Um, it's the I mean, if you drink too much of it, then you're going to be in a bit of bit of trouble. But in terms of if you're trying to stay lean and fit and healthy, tequila is actually the cleanest alcohol you can drink. Well, speaking of I mean, like here's the thing. Like you said, it's diuretic. I mean, I mean, you said dehydrates, it's a di like before like photo shoots, I used to model. I used to get drunk before each shoot just to get and I would wake up, man. I would wake up like looking like now. But I think it's because I don't drink a lot in general. So it's like it was only those times, you know, maybe if I drank I'm sure if I drank every day or like more often like then it might have that same it would be more detrimental to me, you know, like but I don't look like a drunk because I almost I kind of only drink for that reason. That's amazing. So to to actually look your best on the day of a photo shoot, go out and get shitfaced drunk and look like Brandon Carter. So when he's doing his Men's Health magazine cover, it's like and you see the photos and we know that the night before he was hammered. Sometimes in that shoot, like there's been a few times I drink too much the night before cuz I don't drink that much. So like my tolerance is like like uh I'm like a lightweight, right? So like I drink too much. I overdo it. I showed up to these shoots drunk from the day before. It's [\h__\h] up. Like I don't I don't want to It's not something I suggest. I'm just I'm just I'm just being candid, you know? It's not a and uh but yeah some I'll tell I'll tell you a funny story. Mel Gibson famous Australian Oh he's got a he might he might have had a little problem with alcohol that was one of these 30 years. He doesn't Mel Gibson. He's Australian like me, right? And look, he actually got the role of Mad Max, right? It was an Australian film back in 1980, I think it was. It was his breakout role and he actually went to an audition with his roommate, right? And his roommate was auditioning for the role and Mel Gibson was hung over because he'd been out drinking the night before and the casting director saw Mel Gibson and went, "That guy, do you act? Come in here and do an audition." So he went in and did an audition and because he looked hung over because he was like scruffy and that's what the role required, he ended up getting getting the role of of Mad Max. It's crazy, right? Talk about dumb [\h__\h] luck, right? Just just being a drunk. Just being a drunk. Keep up the good work. Go and drink alcohol. Maybe. Listen, now I'm starting to wonder, James, about this challenge. If you want to become a Hollywood movie star, go out and get hammered and turn up to auditions hung over. And if you want to look your best in a magazine, go get drunk. But it's the thing. It's because I don't I think it's like maybe if I drink more often like I don't I don't know what that Yeah, I'm sure I'd probably like get fat. Like it's only because I'm already like I got to cuz I got low body fat cuz I got low body fat, right? So but it's because I don't drink often. Like if I drank all the time or if I binge drink too often, I would probably it wouldn't have effect, right? Because I'd have low body fat. So it doesn't matter if you de dehydrated the night before. If you have if you're not if you're not ripped already, it doesn't matter. You know what I'm saying? It just g me that extra hardness and leanness. Absolutely. With the vascularity, but like the re one of the reason I'm I think I'm able to say cuz I don't drink beer every [\h__\h] night, you know? I don't I don't get hammered every night. Pretty rarely. Even when I go out, I don't even drink as much. Like only doesn't drink when he goes out. You know what I'm saying? That one Coke doesn't drink. He goes out a lot. You know what I'm saying? He goes, "A lot of the things that people who do the 30-day no alcohol challenge say to me is um how do I go out and have a good time and socialize with people if I'm not drinking?" Cuz like you said before, it's a social crux, right? But it's funny, you know, like I thought it would be awkward, but it really wasn't after the first three or four nights. What do you order when you go out? When I was drinking or like now, like what do you order? Now I just I order water, iced water, and I get piece of lime and I squeeze the lime in and stir it around with the straw. It's delicious, man. I mean, just that little tinge of lime is beautiful. You can also do it with lemon. I used to drink diet coke and ginger ale and then I realized that, you know, diet coke is really bad for you. And ginger ale has got a lot of sugar in it. So now if I'm trying to stay lean, water, I'll just have water. And people go, "Water? That's so boring and so dull." Well, put the lime in or put the lemon in and squeeze it around. It is so refreshing and it and it hydrates you. And like I can I can only say so many times how good your skin looks. Like I know for guys it's like what do I care about my skin looks? But women actually notice it. They say have you been working out? Wow, you look amazing. Wow. What's going on? Because the poison leaves your body. And when you're when you're really hydrated and you drink a lot of water, you just feel better. You got you're more energized. I mean, you know, right? You drink you. I drink like a gallon. I drink a gallon or two. Like actually a day every day. That's a lot. I mean, now I haven't. And your skin looks beautiful. Look at you. You're so handsome. is the water. Don't touch me, James. We don't do that in America. In Australia, we do not do that, right? In Australia, when you meet someone, it's like, "Hey, man. Nice to meet you." Right? So, when I first came to America, I was I didn't know what to do cuz people are like, "Hey, man. Nice to meet you." And then other people are coming up going, "Yeah." Hug. I'm like, in Australia, we don't hug. Don't hug me uncomfortable. I don't like it. So, I'm like this, right? And then I went to a Tony Robbins seminar, right? Hugging the [\h__\h] out of each other. And I go into a Tony Robbins seminar and people are dancing on stage and all the way through he's like, "Turn to the person to the right of you and the left of you. Give him a big hug and a high five and say you're awesome." And I'm like, "This is a cult. What am I doing in this cult?" Right? And so now I still don't know what to do. Like if I see you, I would prefer to just say, "Hey man, how you doing?" Or it also bro, you know, bro, I don't know whether you're doing a fist. I don't know whether you're going to do this and then this. It's awkward. So sometimes you're like, I don't know what to do. I like that you guys have like a a system. It's just the handshake. It's really just the handshake. So, but only since I've been living in the US have I been doing the bro hugs and it's still awkward because everyone's different. Like Owen likes to hug me. And then Mark Dharm likes that my mate likes to handshake. And then my friend Brad who's Australian, he's always like handshake. But then sometimes you get this awkward situation where you're kind of not sure whether it's a handshake or a hug. And so you kind of go like, "Oh, yeah. I don't really want to hug a [\h__\h] man. And it's just it's just weird to me. I don't know how it is. You know, I grow up hugging. You know, where I'm from, you don't really hug too much. Well, lots of women will be hugging you. Oh, no. If if you're out in a nightclub and you're not drunk and slobbering all over them if you take the 30-day no alcohol challenge or you just cut back on your alcohol. Cool. I like you brought that in. I like you brought that back. I see what you did. And so women, women women, I'm telling you, I swear to God, women find a man who doesn't drink and consciously is making a decision incredibly attractive, right? And I've been out to bars and nightclubs where there are people who are just hammered and drunk and slobbering over girls and doing crazy stuff. And I'm having a great time jumping up and down and dancing and partying, but I'm not drinking and I've got my wits about me and I know what I'm saying. And I'm the one who attracts the women, right? guys who were drunk and acting like buffoons and they think look you like man like when you're not drunk girls who are drunk aren't as sexy right you got to be drunk to like a drunk chick exactly it's like one of the things I noticed is that like the quality of your relationships improve when you scale back the alcohol so you've been 5 years no yeah I haven't drunk since then like I started in March 2010 I was at the south by south southwest festival in Austin Texas I was hung over. I've had a couple Bombay Sapphire Gem Tonics the night before. I was in an international house of pancakes trying to have a hungover breakfast and I was like, "Man, this is disgusting." Like, oh. And I looked over, there were these huge fat, really fat people eating this all you can eat breakfast buffet with the pancakes and I was like, "Man, this sucks. I hate being hung over. I don't like this. I'm just going to go 30 days and see how long it's see how I feel." And you felt great. I felt great. And then at day 30, I went, I'll just go day I'll go 40. And then I got to 40. I said, I'll see if I can do 50. Then I got to 50 and I was like, man, I've lost almost 20 pounds. Oh, just just cutting out alcohol. Just cutting out the alcohol. But it wasn't just cutting out the alcohol. It was cutting out the crap food that when I was drinking alcohol, you drink when you get drunk, you you crave that. And then you might be environment where that's accessible. Here's the thing about like cuz it's like alcohol your inhibition, right? It degrades your your skills, your your your uh deductive processes, right? So like you might not be make you're probably not making the best decisions drunk, you know? Exactly. It's all like so food decisions, you know, diet dietary decisions, you know, you might not be as cognizant of what you're eating, you know? I mean, when I was living in LA, when I was drinking, I would I would uh foolishly be driving my car home. Maybe I was over the limit. Maybe I was a little bit under, but I would always stop off at Carl's Jr. Burger, the hamburger place, and get like 12 12:30, 1:00 in the morning, I'd get like a Carl's Junior Burger with the fries and coke, and then I'd eat that in my drunken stew. You want that when you're drinking like you want to eat [\h__\h] chicken breast when you're drunk. No, you want to just give me any crap food you got. And so, you wake up in the morning and you just, you know, it's all that extra calories that you're putting in because you've lost, you don't have the willpower from when you're drinking. So when I got to day 50, I'd lost this weight. I I realized that women were finding me a lot more attractive. People were commenting me on on how I looked. I was working out. I was getting up earlier in the morning. I was sleeping better. I was more productive. I actually that around that time was the time that I got a job as a sports center anchor on ESPN. And it's because uh I had that clarity, right? So when there was an opportunity for me to become a sports center anchor, I seized it. Like I knew what to do. I was clear in mind. I wasn't affected by alcohol and poor thinking and being lethargic and and just tired. And so I flew over to Bristol, Connecticut. I did an audition. I got the job. I became a sports center anchor on ESPN. And I all these great things started happening to me. And I just said, I'm just going to see how long I can go without drinking. I got to one year. I was back in Austin, Texas, back at the South by Southwest Festival. I went to a bar. I ordered a bud a bud light and I was going to have it as a c celebratory uh beer after a year and I went to put it to my mouth and I smelt it and it smelt really really good. It smelt really really good but something stopped me in the moment. I just said you know what I'm not going to have it. Just give me a water instead. And I just kept going and now it's 5 and 1/2 years and you know now I feel infinitely better. All these amazing things have happened. I've had better relationships. I make more money. I've got, you know, I'm sleeping better than I've ever thought. My testosterone levels have gone up. Oh, yeah. It definitely like like binge drinking lowers testosterone. Like I've read I've read study museum. Yeah. A lot of people a lot of guys they don't know why they got low testosterone. It's because binge drinking lowers your testosterone. Like that's like that's like that's evidence. You know what I'm saying? Have when you were when you before you were like really fit and healthy. Was there actually was there a time when you were not fit and healthy? Uh, you know what, man? I think in college I I I worked out, you know, and um I was I was in good I was in decent shape, but like I probably smoked like a lot of weed and I drink a lot, you know. But in college, you know, you're young, you know, I'm just I'm having fun. I'm partying and uh lifestyle. And then I just kind of stopped one I just kind of stopped as as I had like you know start trying to accomplish things in life and and I'm in situations where I need to be more cognizant like I just kind of like stopped doing it like it wasn't like cognizant like something that I wanted to it wasn't like a decision it's just kind of like I know that I perform better right me person like personally they some people like some people they can they can get high and do stuff and I'm not that person so like it's just because my priority shifted from having fun to uh to go setting goals and accomplishing them. It's just I rarely I rarely do anything, you know? I'm pretty much straight edge like you know 90% of the time like I I I drink so rare. I just don't like it as much as everyone else. When you were drinking and in college and you were smoking a bit of weed and that kind of stuff. Um did you feel like your energy levels went were down a little bit or or were you I don't know if it's cuz I was a kid, man. You know, yeah. When you're a kid, man, I it doesn't count. You know what? But I do notice I do I notice now when I do times I do drink, the next day it's kind of like if I drink like if I get drunk, you know, before I get drunk, well, one or two is probably nothing, but if I get drunk, it's like a thing. Like the next day is kind of like [\h__\h] up, you know? And because I'm older now, right? Like I'm like 32 now, so I don't bounce back the way I did when I was, you know, like when you're a kid, man. I was a kid. I I slept like four hours a day. I didn't, you know, like I but like now being an adult. Yeah. It's like I I just know I function better the less I and the only time I drink now and even though I said I drink before the shoots, I don't feel great that day. Yeah. You know, and it's not a But no one feels great the day of uh No, no fitness feels great the day they're shooting because they starve themselves and dehydrated. They look great for that day and everyone's going to go eat, right? They don't eat a cheat meal right after. So like I just know that's that's part of like fitness modeling. You got you you everyone hates that day the day of the shoot. You just cuz you're you're you put yourself you know the body doesn't like to have like no biology body it's inefficient to have low body fat or or to be dehydrated right but it makes you look good. You know you know what's interesting about being hung over as well. It's not just dehydration. It's inflammation of the body. Right. Um because your body's inflamed. It's trying to repair itself. So, it's not just that you've lost all all the the water in your system, the kids are hydrated. It's like your body's inflamed. And so, a lot of people when they have headaches and they're like feeling crap. It's not just the dehydration. And so, um you know, starting to any kind of anti-inflammatory, any kind of anti-inflammatory foods like good fats can help you recover from that um pretty quickly. like uh a lot of people say um is it ibuprofen is is a is is like an over-thec counter thing you can get which will help with a hangover because it reduces inflam um uh fish oil fish oil is another one right you pop fish oil is a natural anti-inflammatory yeah I think a night for sleep yeah fish oil so it doesn't taste real good going in but if you shoot back but if you're hung over that's a good thing to take as well I don't get hangovers now because I don't drink anymore but I'll but I I agree I understand what you're saying about the next day you feel crappy because if I eat pizza or pasta or or kind of like a lot of gluten and wheat and stuff the night before the next morning I when I wake up that's kind of what it felt like when I was hung over because you had like a gluten thing or I don't but because I've be since I quit alcohol I've become very health consscious right I didn't know anything about gluten-free or good fats and bad fats and I didn't know that diet coke was bad for you you know I thought diet coke was okay because it was low on calories So now I've become more health consscious. I and I focus on that a lot more. Um when I do eat crap food, my body reacts, you know, cuz I'm so used to eating well, right? You're used to certain things. I'm used to good good foods like any like you're not if you're not accustomed to stuff like like I remember I started eating pork for like a long time just I don't even remember why. I'm not religious or anything or any part of any religion and then I would eat it and then it's like I would be sick, right? Like and I'm not saying pork is bad or whatever. What I'm just saying like anytime you take something away from yourself, you know, you're not used to, you know, like so. So if you drink some alcohol now, it probably affect you in like the worst way. I probably on the floor going, "Brandon, help me. Help me. Put me out of my misery. Just get a gun and put me out of my misery right now." I mean, I I've I've imagined what it might be like now because my liver is working real good, right? Because I don't I don't feed it alcohol. I haven't done for 5 and 1/2 years. So, I'm wondering whether it would just take a couple shots and I'd be like plastered on the plastered on cuz I because I rarely drink like I get drunk. Like I like I I was out the other night and I had like one drink and everybody, yeah, I'll take another. I'm like, nah. Like not me. But that's just because I just don't drink a lot. So, I'm like a light weight. But I just don't like it as much as everyone else. I like I like to I need to be up ready to go in the morning. I got [\h__\h] to do, you know. But you know what's funny is I was at a party in this very very house um uh a couple couple nights ago on Saturday night. It was a big party here. There's lots of people going having a good time. And I was really surprised at how few people were drinking alcohol actually. Oh, well that's cuz that's cuz this is this is the house. This is this is [\h__\h] Owen's house. Yeah. Right. Exactly. So, it's funny because it like when I was talking before about how the quality of your relationships improve. I I don't mean that like people who you drink with that those aren't quality relationships. It's not like you got to get rid of your friends, but um what I've noticed is that when you become health consscious and when you think about scaling back the alcohol, the type of people that you tend to to to gravitate towards and the kind of people that you attract into your life are kind of on the same wavelength. You know, similar interests, similar minds. And so it has this kind of spin-off effect where I meet someone else who doesn't drink that much or I meet someone else who's really health consscious and then all of a sudden everyone sort of like moves forward together and all of a sudden alcohol becomes like oh you drink alcohol. That's not like you're the odd one out but it's kind of like it's peculiar. Oh in your circle. In your circle. Yeah. So it's kind of like you you are like show me your friends. I'll show you your future. Right. So if you if if you think of the five people that you spend the most time with some of those people some of those people, right? So it's kind of like um now I don't really hang out with that many big drinkers. You know, I still got great friends of mine who would never take a 30-day no alcohol challenge cuz they love it enough. But I just now have a lot of friends who don't drink or who drink very little. Yeah. I just like I drink I'll drink socially, but it's like it's usually just one or two drinks. That's fine. Yeah. And that's cool. Like I I but I haven't got drunk in since my last photo shoot. That was like last year. So tell us a good drunk story then, Brandon. I bet you got one where you got in trouble or you did something a little crazy. All right. Let me think. I got arrested once. You got arrest? Yeah. I'll tell you in a second. You tell me your story and I'll tell you mine. You're trying to think you're you're trying to think about what you can say on camera, right? Yeah, I don't think I should tell that to get it. I got it. Hold on. Let me see the right one cuz I'm trying to pick which one. My name's Brandon K alcoholic. All of a sudden, you got to pick which is the best story. Come on, pick. Yo, listen. All right. So, I'm with I'm hanging out. I get I get this call long a long long time ago long long a couple weeks ago long time ago and I get a call from uh you know one of this girl I know she friends or hang out whatever and she's like yeah come to this bar and I'm like like all right so I get there and just her and one of her friends you know it's like it's like middle of the [\h__\h] week you know and I'm like all right but they're drink they're already drunk when I show up so I'm like all right I'm drinking I'm I'm drinking with these goddamn drunks And they're like, they and uh and I my don't drink as much, you know. So, but you know, whatever. We're drinking, chilling, and then we uh I'm it's [\h__\h] I'm I'm I I'll get wasted, bro. Wasted. And then they they come back to the crib and it's like, damn. And then they start making out and they start have and I'm like, oh [\h__\h] this about to all right, cool. I'm with this. And then and then it's like I'm so drunk though that I can't feel my dick. This is not where I start. Hey, hey, listen. You said my best one. And then and then uh and it's like so like it's like Yeah. So I have the threesome, but it's like it's like I did it's like I was I got an erection, but it's like you know when you're drunk you can't you can't feel stuff. That's why he didn't take P. So it's like it wasn't as fun as it could have been because it was like a it was it was like a 75 60% erection and it's like I didn't feel it like I so like I was like [\h__\h] this could have been awesome had I have been sober. It have been like one of it would have been one of the top five best days of my nights of my life but because it was like because I was so so drunk it was just like ah man. Yeah. I feel like I kind of like you know I feel like I kind of squandered an opportunity here right so what's your best so that could have been that actually could have been the world's best story if you hadn't been drinking like you would have been someone would have asked you say man what's the highest the most euphoric you've ever felt in your entire life Brandon you go well let me tell you about this story that I had this threesome and I didn't drink and it was awesome and I had 100% erection and I was just go you know cuz you know that one who's like yeah it's hair, but it's like uh I mean, you know, gets the job done, but it's like it's not like, you know, you know, you know, you can do better. Yeah. You know what I'm talking about. Whiskey dick. Whiskey dick. Whiskey dick. Whiskey dick. You got you got do not have whiskey dick. Yeah, that's real, man. And that that it came at the worst possible time. I can't think of a worse worse situation to have that. Maybe if you popped a Viagra at that point. I don't I don't walk around with those. Well, you know what? This is might be a good segue into my story because it it involves uh uh alcohol being arrested and Viagra. Would you like me to tell you the story? Not like this story. So, so I'm in Tampa for the Super Bowl. I think it was about 2009. I think it was about 5 years ago, maybe 2010. Uh Tampa, that was the Bears, right? It was No, no, that was Miami the year before. Tampa, I think it was um I can't was it was it was it Pittsburgh and uh I can't remember if it was I think Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, right? I think so. I don't know. I can't remember. But it was in Tampa and it was the it was the Saturday night before the Super Bowl on the Sunday and I was trying to get into the Maxim party, right? I'd just been at the ESPN party. I'd been drinking. I had a few drinks. I wasn't drunk or anything, but I had a few drinks and uh I was trying to get into the Maxim party. There was a big line. It was right where there was a street. There were police on horses. There were people everywhere, right? It's the night before the Super Bowl. They're in the streets. Everyone's dancing and partying. And this police officer is about 5'5, burly guy, had probably had small man syndrome, I think. He's like, "You get over the other end other end of the street or the other side of the street." And I said, "Officer, uh, I'm I'm in I'm waiting in line to get into the Maxim party." He said, "There's too many people here. Get on the other side of the street." I'm like, "Officer, honestly, like it's the Maxim party. It's Saturday night. Come on, let me get one more time. am I warning you? And I kind of like threw up my arms. I'm like, "Really?" And he goes, "Right, I warned you." And he comes up and he puts my arms around me and he takes me walks me over to the other side of the road, spreads my legs against the police car, puts my head down, and puts handcuffs on me. Right. That's crazy. You're not even black. I'm going to get killed, bro. That's hilarious. Shot in the face. I promise you. So he puts me in this police car. He charges me with um obstruction without force, right? Oh, no, sorry. Resistance without force. Resistance without force. Anyway, drives me to this parking lot of like a Walmart or something where there's a police van. They put me up into this police van. There's like two guys to the right of me. There's um a petition in between us and there's four other guys on the other side. We're all handcuffed. And I get in and I turn to the guy. I go I the only thing I knew what to say was what you in for. And he's like I punched one of the police horses. He goes, "What's you in for?" And I said, "I don't know." I was trying to get in the Maxim party and I gave a little bit of lick to the to the police officer. Anyway, they drive us to to the Tampa um uh prison. It's about 30 minutes out of town. I'm like practically crying because I'm missing the Maxim party. And the Maxim party's got hot women, free booze, celebrities, you know, all the Hugh Hefner's there, all these other cool people. And I'm like, you and uh we go there and anyway, they bring us into this um this sort of uh registration area or processing area and they've taken our possessions, right? So, they've got my cell phone, they've got my wallet, and there's this big fat uh black woman who's she's like in a sheriff's outfit. She's squeezed into this outfit and she's the one who's going through everyone's stuff, right? And I'm like, and everyone else can see the stuff that she's going through. So, she's standing in between and all of us is and I'm like, "Oh man, this is going to be embarrassing because I know what I've got in my wallet." And so, she comes to me and she's like, she opens up the thing and she's going through it, you know, and she pulls out this thing. I won't tell you what it is right now. Is she pulls this thing out and she looks at it and then she looks over towards where I am. She doesn't know who I am yet, right? And then she goes calls over at this male sheriff and he come he comes over and they both look at it and they both start laughing. And then the guy goes through my wallet and I know what's going to happen. He goes, "James Swanwick? Is there a James Swanwick here?" And I'm like, "Yeah." And he goes, "So I get up and I walk over there and he goes, "Is this what I think it is?" And I go, "Yeah, it was my Viagra. I had Viagra." Right? And this is what he does, right? This is what he does. He goes, "Okay, you can sit back down." So I go back and I sit back down and I look back up and he gets it and he goes, "And he sticks it in his top sheriff police officer's uniforms pocket." And he walks off and the woman starts kneeling. And there I spent the night in in prison in prison, man. He stole my Viagra. Now you're probably asking why did I have Viagra? It wasn't because I had low testosterone or I couldn't get it up or any of that kind of stuff. I just for me it was kind of like just a really cool thing to experiment and try. I mean listen listen if listen if you don't need it and you take it turns you into [\h__\h] it's like the like the next it's like the next level. You know what I'm saying? Like cuz the guys need it turns him into a regular. So if you don't need it it's like turns you into a machine. Yeah. Yeah. I lost it backwards. Yeah, man. I mean, like I've used it a few times. It was a few times, man. Like I was like, "All right, man. I need to make a [\h__\h] impression this time. I'm not [\h__\h] around this time for this certain situation." But the problem is that is like you set a you set a precedence that that's you can't live up to. Yeah. You said a present cuz it's like I gave up alcohol. I took up my Now I'm addicted to whatever. Give me whatever. Give me. No. Everyone use that all the time because no it's just it's for special occasions and I had it there for special occasions. At the time I was drink I mean oh if you're drunk like that's insane if you're drunk. I don't need it. I don't drink. I don't need it at all now. But at the time, when I was like, if I was in a drunken stuper or I was binge drinking, it's like you worry about your performance that it would have been perfect. Yeah. And now and now the sheriff from the Tampa police uh Tampa prison is enjoying the benefits of Viagra as well. He's loving it. He's like telling all his friends. Let me tell you the story back in 2009 where this Aussie guy got arrested and I stole his Viagra. It's the bomb, man. You know, you hear some crazy [\h__\h] once once I took that [\h__\h] just before a photo shoot, right? Not I was think it didn't make it only makes you it only makes you like hard if you're aroused. So I wasn't aroused but what it is is a vaso dilator, right? So it's like it makes you just fuller and like your your muscles fuller and like more vascular and like Yeah, man. So like if you're not aroused, it's not like it's not going to get your erection if you're not aroused. So I didn't get erection, but like you're right. It's not something I would do on a regular, but I've done I did it once and it like worked like no. It makes your heart you could like when you take it, you actually get flushed in the face. Yeah, it makes a pump like a better pump. like it's it's a it's a it's some there are people if you look you there's uh uh Brandon Marshall he was talking about uh do you remember he used the wide receiver for he used to play for the for my team the yeah he plays for the Dolphins then he went up to Buffalo oh the Bears now they have Jay Cutler throw J [\h__\h] Cutler I'm glad that you you guys took Jay Cutler from from last Denver Broncos I'm glad you took him it's okay man I was pissed pissed off when Jay Cutler left. I was like, "That's a disaster. Watch Josh McDaniel." And then hindsight, you know, in hindsight, you go, "Wow, that's okay. You guys had been breaking my heart for years." But anyway, yeah, but Brand Marsh was talking about like, yo, guys are taking that cuz it's like a performance enhancer cuz it really like for like we're getting off topic, but like I've heard of bodybuilders take it or people who like it's something you can take that's like not a you won't get charged for substance abuse, but you cuz it only makes you hard if you're aroused. So if you just if you're not aroused like it flushes you like you see your [\h__\h] nostrils, you have to you know I don't know you got sinus issues. Uh if yeah if you take my sinus issues I [\h__\h] and you know so anyway. Yeah sometimes I take my say someone's going to clip this and just take my be a gif just like over and over again like go on over and over and over again. You know what I'm saying? But that stuff it you know it does it does make you flush in the face. It makes your heart go a little bit more. But man, it's it's worth it when when you have taken on occasion. I love it, man. I've never had you this, you know, I got in this old this old I used to work in this restaurant and this old man used to be at the bar and he he's said he used to get him from the VA. And one day he was just talking just [\h__\h] shooting [\h__\h] just talking crazy like funny stories like and then and then he said, "I'll be right back." He went to his apartment cuz he lived by the bar. He came back. He's like, "Here you go, man." And he just gave me a [\h__\h] handful. I used to give me an apple when you like they're gone now. I've had them in years. You know what I'm saying? But like Yeah. I used to back in the day. I mean I used them all. I was like I got these [\h__\h] on me. What other like perfor like the alcohol thing, right? Here's the thing. Your sex life goes through the roof when you either quit or seriously reduce your alcohol. For real. Your testosterone levels grow up. Testosterone levels go up. your stamina goes up uh because you're not drinking. You tend to be leaner and you tend to be more health conscious. So, you got more testosterone, you're more ripped, you're outdoors more, so you're getting the vitamin D from the sun, which raises your testosterone levels. If you're health conscious and you're working out in the gym, you're doing heavy squats, like stuff that works your legs and your butts and your glutes. They all increase your testosterone levels. All of this stuff is going to, you know, increase your your sexual performance. And for me, it it's all linked back to just cutting for me quitting the alcohol. But just but even if you don't quit, just reduce. I'm not going to quit. No, don't quit. I'm not saying that anyone has to. I'm not encouraging anyone to quit. It's good. It's good. I'm just saying quit for 30 days. Yeah, it's it might be good. I might try to say after I I'm going to I'm going You know what? [\h__\h] it. I'm going to do it. There you go. But not till I got to go to London for Elliot Hos's uh [\h__\h] uh conf. They drink too much in London for me to But here's the thing. London, they drink crazy. I'm not I'm not going to pretend that I'm not going to drink in London, but when I come back, I [\h__\h] I A lot of people say that, right? Oh, I just got to go and have this party. I just got to go to this thing, but I've got that wedding coming up. So, I understand that, right? Like to the uninitiated, I get that. But here's the thing. Once you quit for 30 days, and once you decide that you're going to stay quit, maybe you do, maybe you don't, right? Then you don't even have to worry about big events that are coming up. You don't say things like, "Oh, actually, I can't quit now because I'm going to London," or, "I can't quit now cuz I got that wedding on that date." You actually feel confident enough in yourself to be able to party like a rockstar without the alcohol at all. So, you could go to London and party like a rockstar and not drink a touch of alcohol and no one would be none the wiser or no one would care. And you may actually actually even have a better time and be more in tune with yourself and have more clarity and have better conversations and have more fun and have better sex maybe um or whatever it is simply because you're not drinking alcohol. So, I get it because it's like a people who have never done it before it's like wo I can't take 30 days off alcohol. That's way too much. It's almost too easy for me, man. Like, honestly, it's like for me it's almost too easy cuz I just Yeah. But yeah, I hear what you're saying. Yeah. But just I would just give it a try. Like just see how your body responds and how your clarity and your sleep responds when you just give it up entirely for 30 for 30 days. I've probably done it like not like honestly I'm sure there's been 30 like within the last year there's been 30 days that I haven't drank. You just haven't been conscious of it. Let's not say oh not trying cuz like I just don't drink much, you know? Yeah. But it's it's interesting, you know, like people think, "Oh, I could never go to a wedding and not drink. Oh, I could never have a birthday party and not drink. Oh, it's our wedding anniversary. We should drink. Oh, it's a special occasion. Oh, but it's the Super Bowl. Oh, it's the Fourth of July weekend. I have to drink." Why do you have to drink? You don't have to. It's just society and culture that has ingrained into us that you that in order to be part of a social community and in order to have a good time, in order to be part of that occasion, you have to have alcohol. I call BS on that, man. You do not need to do it. Listen, if it's fun and you enjoy it, it's not an issue for you. Keep drinking. No problem at all. But just explore your relationship by taking a 30-day break just to see. Test yourself. Experiment. Go out and put yourself in social situations. Talk to a pretty girl if you're a guy. Talk to guys and other girls if you're a girl. Like practice. Cuz I remember when I worked at that restaurant, I was like, I had a lot of fun, but I couldn't drink at work. You know what I'm saying? I was manager of the my friend, he had owned drostanolone store and I was manager at that joint and um like you know and I'm not drinking on the job at least I I didn't and it's like but yeah I had plenty of fun you know what I'm saying like you know it was it was all it was like you know yeah you don't so you don't need the alcohol in order to get into a social situation like I I literally did it every weekend for over a year when I was managing this restaurant you know a lot of people are shy feel like they they need the alcohol in order to loosen up or to feel um to feel relaxed, right? They need a couple drinks before they can even consider going out and meeting strangers. But once you get used to it and once you stop it and once you become a little bit more self-confident and you just practice and you talk to people, you don't need it. Like you honestly, you don't need it. It just becomes second nature. I don't need it, man. Like I I go out and I'm like, "Hey, how you doing? I'm James. What's your name?" I'm very social. Um a lot of times people think I'm drunk even when I'm not because I'm having such a good time. said the same [\h__\h] People think he's drunk. Yeah. And so, yeah. I mean, Owen and I, we go out, we don't drink, and we we rock it, you know? It's good times. Yeah. All right. So, there it is, man. So, I'm going put a link to your uh you got to your website. Yeah. Yeah. You got like a free report or something like that? Yeah. Yeah. 30-day noalcohol challenge.com if you want to check it out and join our community and we've got a close Facebook group. We support one another. Brandon's going to be in there cuz after he goes and go to the pub, right? Tears it up. Yeah. And then I'm come demo take 30 days. I might need it. I might need a good detox after Europe, you know. Yeah. It's easy. Come in and I'm going to send you send you a daily video for 30 days to keep you on track. Some willpower tips and what to say when your friends say to you. Oh, go on, man. Just have one. I'll stop being a [\h__\h] Go on. Just have one. So, I got little scripts that you can say to people when they say that to you, so you don't feel feel awkward. And so yeah, I just said when you're in when you're in the challenge, I send you daily videos and um uh you know, teach you how to what to drink instead of the alcohol. I know I was just talking about water and wine, but there's a whole lot of other non-alcoholic drinks you can have. A lot of options, man. So many options. So So yeah, check it out. And Brian, I'm looking forward to having you in. Yeah, man. I'm going do I'm do when I get back. Good, man. So hang on. Was that a handshake or was that like a Was it a fist pump or something? Something like that. Yeah. Which one was it? I don't know what to call it. We're going to move apart a little bit now cuz you know we don't it's two guys like here. It's a bit kind of weird. The Australian culture in me is like Yeah, man. All right. Thanks a lot, bro. That's it. All right, man. Thank you so much, man. Thanks for appreciate it. P.