What's the last what's the last show you did last year? Yeah. Yes. Did you win that joint? I did I did sixth place twice out of uh I think the first one was 35 females and then the other one was like 20 something. Was it is bikini? No, it's figure. Figure. What's the difference between figure and there's a lot more muscle in figure girls than bikini? Oh, okay. You know, you never know. Every year the categories are changing and the way that judges want to see the girls, you know, and it it it's different from show to show. It's whoever show who shows up, whoever shows up, and what the judges like from whoever shows up. So, I have the Isoflex peanut butter chocolate. That's the one you like? Yes. I have the Isopure toasted coconut, which by the way, we're getting tomorrow cuz it's sold out here. The coconut. the coconut. I like coconut. Why do you have two way isolates? Just because there's times that I get tired of the peanut butter chocolate and you know I like coconut. I'm Dominican so um that's all I have as far as um protein powders. You only take isolate? I only take isolates. I use protein powder as an emergency. I rather much rather have solid meals. Oh, really? Yeah. Even when prep, like preworkout, post-workout, it's always a solid meal. You know, that's only for emergency. If I run out of food or if I'm not around the house and I don't have food with me, I always have like a packet or um you keep it just in case you can't get you can't eat it. Yeah. I always feel like that's the main benefit like this for the most I mean, my mindset has always been like there's nothing like magical about protein powder. It's just it's just it's easier way for me to get protein instead of like trying to eat a steak. I can just that. You know what I'm saying? Exactly. Yeah. Especially if you're dieting, right? It's easy to get like a lot of protein with little calories, right? Exactly. Yep. Um, let's see. This is mass gainer. So, that's not my side. Like I said before, right now I'm doing the CLA and the carnitine from here. Uh, I've used the Hydroax. It's um, you know, a pill, the the pill to get rid of water. pancake mix. You like this? I love it. You know what? Cinnamon apple is my favorite. I took this and I I might have took too many. I ate I have a video of me making them and I ate a bunch of them. I bought them here and I ate a bunch of these flat jacks and I uh you know, my girl made me sleep in the other room. What were you telling me? I had they call it night farts. Night farts. Is that the thing? And uh cuz it said it said one serving was a half a cup and she probably did the whole thing. And then No, I Yeah. I was like, "Oh, so if a half a cup is for a regular guy, then I need at least two cups." And that's what I did, you know. And I I had night farts. All right. P28 white chocolate. Peanut butter pumpkin spice from Nuts and More with one of these. Oh, this is what all you guys need. This and this on top of it. That's my snack. Wait, you put that together? Oh, yeah. You put peanut butter on the pumpkin spice cookie. Pumpkin spice. Girls love pumpkin spice. Do you eat that year round or just like No, no, no. Actually, since I started working here, like this box, I probably bought it myself. No, I'm just kidding. I have to have at least three of these a day as snacks in between my meals. Yes. No, you got to ask the guys. Serious. Three a day. That's part of my That's part of my macros. It fits in my macros. It fits your macro. If it fits your macros, you know, you can do whatever you want, right? Yeah. So, you can shoot heroin if it fits your macros. Yeah. I like this. This is my favorite protein bar. I honestly I got to stay away from that cuz it it does what the flapjack. Oh, really? You got night farts. Girls don't fart. I might I must have just been around more women than you. That's that's possible. And that's pretty much it as far as my snacks. That's that's snagging like Oh, I know all you guys here eat these. This is my favorite. And then out of this one, this is my flavor. Lemon popped. Flavor. Yeah. Yeah. Lemon popped. I don't know how I feel about that. You don't like this one? I'm Dominican. We don't do poppy seeds. That's actually the reason why he likes it is cuz it says Poppy. The the just the name Poppy. See Dominican Poppy. That's what I thought it meant. Poppy. Poppy seeds. Champagne. Poppy seeds. I poppy seeds, I think. All right. Yeah. So, I'm It's good. It's good to get, you know, a little insight into your world, you know, a little. Yeah. Supplement wise. Yeah. Um, I already told you my favorites are the Stimulate and the ESV, but I'm taking a break from that right now. He's saying that cuz he did you did you do you did you feel like when you came you came off these did you feel anything weird like like like crash? Yeah. Not not like crash. I mean like do you like withdraw from like the harsh stimulants like like I don't know. I've been on some like in the past some pretty harsh stimulants and like when I didn't take them I felt like I was like like when I went off caffeine like you got headaches. Yeah. I used to take this [\h__\h] Y'all don't have it here. So, but I used to take this this this supplement that was pretty intense, man. Uh, I'll probably keep it up. Red line red line makes red line four or five red lines a day. You have red line. Oh, you do? I mean, yo, it's in I I probably Well, anyway, I used to take a supplement and I probably just I probably abused it. Yeah. Yeah. And then like when I stopped taking it, actually my doctor said my blood pressure was crazy high. And then when I stopped taking it, like I was just like, damn. Like depressed. Yeah. Like depressed and taking too much of it. That's why anything you take a lot of is going to make you feel when you All right. Thank you. Got you.