Three, two, one. Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. I'm out here in St. Petersburg, Florida. Um, I'm here for Elliot host his event. I'm going to be on the panel at later on today. But we decided to come through strength camp, get a workout. Uh we the only ones here. They uh Elliot and Chris opened it up for us. So we about to get a little workout in. Should be an interesting day. Uh let's see how it works. Heat. Heat. Nothing that irritates me more than someone that says I don't know. There's nothing you can't not know. You might not understand everything cuz that requires experience. But I tell you what, right now in this day and age, we have a whole lot of people that know a lot of [\h__\h] but that understand nothing. Knowing is not good enough. Being resourceful is not good enough by itself. There's no reason why anybody should be resourceful. Thinking you know without understanding a damn thing. One of the most powerful lessons I've learned in the past few years is the power of not knowing. And sometimes that's the biggest block to knowledge is. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. You say, "No, I know." Yeah, I know. I know. I know. We don't [\h__\h] know. Listen, this is a brand new experience. Shut up and take it. Tenacity. So, wait. Look, I just got to be old and grumpy. When I hear you guys talk about being broke, don't have enough. I just want to arrive on the inside. All right. Right now, I would like all the YouTube fitness celebr routine to actually get to, you know, birth level to uh you guys. How old are you? 28. 28. Okay. So, what I like to tell people when they're worried about things like age is, for example, if you start at 28 and then fast forward to 42, wouldn't you be happier 14 years from now than you started on something? You take the age out of it and you look at what the excuse actually is and you address it as it is and then you just address one thing that's I want back flip. Not too old. My knees hurt. I'll fix them. I'll start progressively training it. I'll get it. Boom. You got a back flip. Is your life better now? You can do back flip back. Everyone's happy. A lot of times to get where you want to go, you got to do a lot of boring [\h__\h] you know? Like you have to learn how to edit videos. It's boring. Like where I have to learn how to write copy or sales pages, build websites, and that [\h__\h] is boring. I hate it. And uh and I still do a certain extent. Uh but there's not. I don't care if it's boring. I don't care if it hurts. I'm careful saying don't care if I'm living or die. I just have to do what has to be done no matter what. And I think it's just not stop caring about emotions and feelings or any of that. Emotions are just a distraction. This is like talking about just for me like emotions are distraction. I don't care about and I know that that's help me right like I just don't like that's just distraction. The only emotion that has been beneficial for me is is anger. You know, it's like almost like control rage, you know, like I've never like be think about my enemies. Oh, yeah. That's you know like I was show and whatever but I was cold. So I was walking around the cold. I was taking ice baths trying to get used to cold or something like that. And it was like 40 something degrees in New York or whatever. And I was wearing like this. I was not. And some lady was like cold. This [\h__\h] sucks. But it's okay. It's whatever. I didn't care. I don't care. That mess like bull terminator. I will do anything. I'll stay up all night, eight days in a row, climb over [\h__\h] glass. [\h__\h] I don't care. I don't care how I feel or or about my health or safety. All I care about is results. That's been my for success. Heat. Heat. What? Woohoo! Woohoo! Lord, master take me to the promised land. My friend, Lord, keep me away from sin. Oh Lord, oh Lord, I know you can. I know you can. Oh you can. I feel you touch me in the pouring rain. In the moment that you wander far from me, I want to feel you in my arms again. Then you came to me on a summer breeze. Kept me warm with your love. Then it's not and just me and need to show how deep is your love. How deep is your love? I really need to learn. Living in a world of fools breaking us down when they all should let us be. We belong to you and me. When the ocean let us be. We belong to you and me. Hey, hey, hey.