 So I lived in New York for 15 years. So I lived in New York for 15 years. First I was in Queens, then I moved to the Upper West Side. So I got some money. And there was something I noticed when I was living in New York. The guys who got the most girls, like who slept with the most girls, I mean hot girls, it would be these Dominican guys I would know who either like didn't have a job or maybe they had like a dead-end job like driving Uber, something they can make their own schedule. And they got the most girls by far. And it wasn't close. And hot girls too, you know what I'm saying? Like hot chicks. And at the same time I knew dudes who were working really, really hard to make a bunch of money, become successful. And a big motivation for a lot of these guys was to get girls, right? Because they figured they had enough money, they can like have freedom to do all the stuff and you know, resources and whatever, to get girls, right? That's a big motivation for a lot of guys. So these guys would work super hard to get it to accomplish those goals. Then they had enough time and resources like to allocate to getting with our girls. But it's like they worked really hard to get to the place where the Dominican Uber driver had got to easily. You know what I'm saying? Like they had to climb a mountain for years to get to a place that the Dominican just had to step into. And here's why that story is going to make sense. That wasn't my first of all, that was not my motivation to get rich. My motivation was to take care of my family after my dad was committed suicide. Right. I mean, that was my motivation, not women. And I'm not saying money should be your motivation. I mean, women, I'm not saying women should be your motivation. But here's what. Here's where this is going to make sense. When I first started my business, online training was like my first real successful business, being online training. And I got to about. 20, 30 K by myself. A month. Online training. And man, I felt super rich. I felt super, super rich. And. And. It wasn't easy, especially back then, because there was no like mentors or, you know, all of us who were doing online training back then, we were like the first we had to invent it, you know? Because it was back when I was like 25, 20, 26, 27, you know, 43 now. So, you know. Almost 20 years ago, like the Internet and social media wasn't as sophisticated as it is now. So we had to invent it. It took a lot of effort, but I got there, you know, then I felt rich at 30 K. I felt like, oh, man. You know, I had all my bills covered. I can take care of my mom. I have some money left over to invest. I can. I don't have to worry about like minor expenses. I can go on a vacation. You know, like I feel really good at 30 K. Like I feel rich. Then I was then I was like, OK, man, what happens if I make a million now make it a million dollars? That's not 30 K a month. That's going to be around eighty eight thousand dollars per month to get there. That shit took everything. Like straight up. That shit took everything. It'd be a little easier now. But back then it took everything. Like I was obsessive. There was no balance. And I got there. But to get there also had to hire people. Right. I also had to. Take on more responsibility because now I had to hire people. The first hire was a video editor. And, you know, then I hired some people to do other things and other coaches underneath me. And I had to build like. A real business, you know, I could I was able to just hustle my way to 30 K, but I had to build like a real structured business with hierarchies in order to get to a million. When I got to a million, it felt the same as 30 K a month, like eighty eight thousand dollars a month felt the same, especially because it wasn't all profit. Right. You know, I had to pay employees. And, you know, I'm running ads, so it wasn't all profit. So I didn't even put 88 K in my in my. My pocket, you know, I probably put closer to 50, 60, you know, something around that range in my pocket. But it didn't feel different. I really just put more money in my investments, which is good on some long term shit. But it's like I had to just like the dude who had to work really hard to get to the place where the Dominican Uber driver had to just walk to. I feel like I had to give up everything and work super hard to get to a place that I that I got to a lot easier. You know, and the point I'm trying to make is. I think that's 30 K a month, man. I think that should be your goal. That's the sweet spot. You can do it with one person, especially now with the A.I. You can have a it's way easier. We have a one person business to get the 30 K. You probably get the 50 K now. One guy, you know, I mean, I know you can with with with with the advancements in A.I. and. Man, it just it just feels. At 30 K, man, I'm telling you, it really feels you feel rich. You can take care of everything. You can get a place like maybe you don't get a place as big as mine, but you can get a place like this. Like you can get a view like this. Right. You make maybe you don't get Richard Mills. Right. But but you can get. Fucking dope Omega or or even a Rolex like you get a Rolex. A used Submariner for like 10 K. You good money. You're there or even better. Get yourself a Cartier Santos. You can have a dope watch. You can wear nice clothes. Maybe you're not shopping at the LB store. Right. But fuck that. Yeah. Like you. You can take care of your parents. I think that's a good goal for you. And then once you get there, then you decide, hey, do I want more? I still probably make that decision. Right. Because. It feels way different once you're making multiple millions. OK, that's what shit is different. But like one million dollars a year doesn't feel different than 30 K a month. It really doesn't. So that should be a goal. All right. So how do we get there? Break it down for you. Step one. You have to pick a product or service. First service you want to sell. Like what kind of business you want to start. I suggest you do a service based business. I've talked about this before because it's less startup costs and less and more importantly, less overhead. So why do businesses go out of business? 80 percent of businesses fail because they can't cover their expenses. That's why business fails. If your expenses are low, it's a lot more difficult to fail. You get what I'm saying? You put the odds more in your favor. So service based business could be anything. It could be running ads for people. That's what my boy Jeremy does. He's like my richest friend. Like he runs the ass. He gets he's so good at it. He gets a percentage of revenue. Right? So he'll like get people to a million dollars a month running ads and then he'll, he gets 10 percent of that. You know what I'm saying? A hundred thousand dollars a month per client. He has multiple clients. He helped get to a million dollars per month. Right? So he's like one of my richest friends. Right? You can also do, I mean, but again, he's an expert. He's been doing this shit for like 20 years almost. Right? Or 15 years. You can also do, you can do people's taxes. You can do video editing, data analytics. There's all types of stuff you can do. You can do. You can do. You can do. You can do. You can do people's taxes. You can do video editing, data analytics. There's all types of stuff you can do. It's a service business. You can clean people's pools. Right? Landscape, any sort of service. Well, I made, again, I made my first million as an online trainer to help people get in great shape online. It fit with, even though I had to work really hard, I didn't mind it because I love fitness and I love helping people accomplish their goals. So it didn't feel, even though I worked really hard, it didn't feel like work. If I had to do one of these other jobs, it would be more drudgery because it's not my calling. Like my calling is being a coach. Hey, if you want to, before I get into the next steps, if you want to learn how to become an online trainer, I'm doing a live training on Wednesday. Where on Wednesday, no, I'm sorry. It's going to be on Sunday, March 1st at 2 PM, where I'm going to break down exactly how to use AI to get, to become an online trainer, build your online training business. If you have one or not, you don't need a lot of experience. It's going to show you how to do it even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a big following. I'm going to show you how to grow your following with AI. I'm going to show you how to use AI to get more sales and more leads. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so they get great results and you can take on more clients without having to spend as much time. The link is in the description. Sign up now. Anyway, service-based business. That's step one. Step two is to get as good as you can at providing that service. So what does that mean? That's going to mean, you know, reading. You might need to read some books on it. You might need to take some classes, take some courses. Depending on what you're doing, you might have to go to school, right? The easiest way to do is get a mentor. That's the one that's guaranteed to work. Because you've got to think about it, man. Think about like Star Wars. Luke, he was special. He had the gift. He had the fucking space magic. He was nice with the space magic. But he still wasn't good enough to go fuck with Darth Vader in the Empire. So he had to go get what? A mentor. First he had Obi-Wan, right? Obi-Wan was like, nah, you need to go change this little green motherfucker. Old Yoda, you know? And so he goes to trains with old Yoda in the swamp or some shit. And old Yoda teaches him how to use the space magic. Now, because he had a mentor, he had training, he was able to harness the space magic better. Next thing you know, he kills his dad, fucks his sister, saves the universe. Right? So mentors is like the best way to learn. It's legit the best way to learn. I remember when I was learning guitar, I was like, alright, I'll just figure it out on YouTube. I played instruments before. I know what I'm doing. I already played keyboard and I played drums. So like, yo, guitar, I'll be able to figure this out. And I made some progress YouTube videos. I bought like books and I made progress. But I felt stupid after one month of getting the actual guitar teacher and training with him every week. I felt stupid for waiting so long because I made more progress that first month than I did the whole like year prior to that. Because I had a mentor. So mentors really speeded up. But if you can't afford that, you know, YouTube, books, courses, classes, whatever your thing is. Again, if you want to be an online trainer, I'm doing a free live training where I'll show you how on March 1st, 2pm. Hit the link in the description. But learn as much as you can about it. Like study it. Be obsessive. And get really good. And once you feel like you're proficient enough to get started, you've consumed enough material to get started, now you have to put it into practice. And so what you're going to do is you're going to find some people that you can do it for for free. That you can provide your service for for free. So if you're, let's say, Vibe coding websites or apps, that's going to be your thing. You find some people who you can make free apps, you're going to say, I'll make you this free app in exchange for a testimonial. Or I'll make you this website in exchange for testimonial. Right? Or that's one thing I do. I teach my students how to do. Well, I teach how to grow their online fitness business. We call it the testimonial harvest. First thing you need to do is find around five fat boys that you can train for free. Get them amazing results. And then now you can now you've got credibility because you've got testimonials from the fat asses. Right? And who you made regular. You took them from fat to regular. Not in good shape. So help somebody for like a month or however long it takes for you to get five good testimonials. Right? Then the next step is now you start marketing that shit on social media. Initially, you probably don't need to spend ads. You're going to make content about your shit and have like little CTAs call to actions for people to learn more. And you flex your testimonials and then you start getting some paid clients. Oh, let's go back to the testimonial harvest. A lot of times that's people's first clients because let's say you help them lose a bunch of weight in a month. And you can, here's a key, if you're an online trainer, here's a tip. Get the fattest motherfuckers you can find because the fatter you are, the faster you lose weight. And your body doesn't want to hold on to all that body fat. But once you get lean, the leaner you get, the more your body kind of wants to hang on to that body fat. And it's going to fight you. That's why people say, oh man, my fat loss has slowed down. Yeah, that's what's supposed to happen. Like it's going to be rapid at first if you're super fat. And then as you get leaner, it slows down. Anyway, get the fattest motherfuckers you can find because they'll give you, you can help them lose like a lot of fat in a month. I once helped a dude lose 75 pounds in 75 days. Right? But he was obese. He was like well over 300 pounds, right? Obviously somebody's lean, you're not going to get those kind of results. Right? Anyway, you flex it. And after you help them for a month, you say, hey, if you want to keep doing this, I, you can work with me for half off. Boom. And a lot of times that's people's first clients. You know, and it's a super easy sale because you already helped them. So let's say I'm building apps for people. Hey, if you want me to maintain this or manage this for you, here's the, going to be my retainer. Right? Or if you're doing like AI automations for people. Hey, if you want me to maintain this shit for you, then this is my retainer. A lot of times people you do the testimonial for, those can be your first clients. Right? And then you keep stepping it up. You just keep stepping up. Keep going, keep going, keep going. And once you get into around five to 10 K a month, then you want to start running ads. Right? Well, you're running ads and this Instagram ads, Facebook ads. That's probably where I would concentrate. If you're a local business, you can do local Google ads. Those work well, you know. Yeah. You start running ads and that, that, that will increase the lead flow. And then you just keep doing that until you get to 30 K a month. And once you get to 30 K a month, man, especially if it's 30 K profit, then look at your life and decide if you want to go further. Because between 30 K a month and 88 K a month, you won't feel different. And your business is changes a lot. It's a lot more stressful to get to that level. And I don't think the stress outweighs the benefits. Now, if you take it to like multi million dollars a month, that's when things feel different. That's when things feel different. Right? Like I do, I can do shit now making multiple millions a month that I could do one 30. Right? Like I took my son to Disney world. You know, I flew him and his mom first class to Orlando. I flew first class to Orlando from Miami. But when we meet up there and we got the VIP passes, so we cut, we go, not the fast lane shit. Like we're going in front of the line to the front. Like no line. And if we want to go on that shit again, we just stay in. We just say, Hey man, we're doing it again. And we stay on skipping motherfuckers. We've been waiting for hours. You can do that type of shit with multiple millions and it becomes better. Like, like, uh, my son's school costs 20 K a year. That you can probably do that with 30 K depending on what your other budget is. But like, I don't have to think about it. You know what I'm saying? You know, I put thousands of dollars in investment fund just for my son every month. I've been doing that since he was two. Right? So he's going to be a multimillionaire. You know, at 18 and you know, I got, I got him my life insurance. You know, I put fucking like, I have a, it's one of those index life insurances where you can actually borrow against if you want to like that kind of thing. And I put like another 4 K into that every month. So if I, if, if I, if I ever die unlikely, but if I ever die, uh, he immediately gets like a few million, you know, then you can do shit like that. You know what I'm saying? My mom needs a new car. I just go get it right at, at millions. So, but that is kind of that, that space in between 30 K a month and 2 million is almost like a purgatory after 2 million. It just feels different. Right? But in between there is almost like a purgatory where you're working like super hard for the same feelings, but past like 2 million. That's when things feel different and like exponentially different. But other than that, you kind of in a purgatory. So I feel like get the, get the 30 K a month and then see if you want to do what it takes to get to 2 million a year. See if that's something that you're willing to do. I think a lot of you guys are going to be super happy at 30 K a month, like super happy and super, you can have, you can have a bit of balance, right? But if you want a million dollars a year, there's not going to be a lot of balance. Like you're going to be super unbalanced. I think a lot of you guys would be happier there. Kind of like the Uber driver. He's kind of happy there. And I wouldn't recommend that long term, like have no job or dead end job. The fuck bitches. You can do that in your twenties, right? Maybe early thirties. But after, after that, then my bitches gonna be like, Hey, nigga, what the fuck? You know, but you get what I'm saying. You get the point. Hope that makes sense. Hey, register for that live training. I'm doing on, uh, if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business using AI. Alright. Bye.