 bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor bor I don't think that this war is really about Iran. And it's definitely not about what they what they say is about what it says about them having a nuclear bomb. That's because Trump and all of them said that they decimated Iran's nuclear enrichment facilities last year. But now they're like two weeks away from having a bomb. They've been two weeks away from having a bomb my whole life. Benjamin Nianyadu been saying that these had a bomb. These thing never had a bomb and ain't never going to have a bomb. I think this shit is about China. And I think Venezuela was kind of about China as well. Hear me out. I think that the U.S. has been strategically cutting off all of China's supplies to cheap oil. China faces massive dependency on oil that they get at a discount. They used to get a lot of it from Venezuela. They used to get a lot of it from Iran. In fact, China consumed 80 percent of Iran's oil. And Trump is always talking shit about China. Now, obviously, you don't want to really go to war with China. Don't nobody want that smoke. Right. They got mad motherfuckers. And if they lose the war, what do they do to me? They like I can take the sword. Or is that Japan? Whatever. Let me show you this. This is from Rutgers. So, you know, it's true. China is heavily, heavily relying on Iranian oil imports. Recently, Costco, right? Chinese oil shit. Not the place where your mama buy mad toilet paper and fucking napkins. We're talking about the oil Costco, right? They suspended all new bookings from the Middle East ports, citing escalated conflict and traffic restrictions in the Strait of Hermose. Chinese, they looked at the map. They said, the Lord is like, nah, we ain't fucking with that shit, man. And that's a problem, man. So check this out. China knew this shit was happening. They got intelligence, too. Just as much intelligence as we got secret agents and shit. Plus, they got samurais and ninjas. This is how much oil they were as they were shipping on average, right? Like a week before, they fucking tripled that shit because they knew this shit was about to fucking pop off. Matter of fact, I got some data to show you this so you know I'm not making this shit up. I never lied to you and I ain't going to start today, right? They suspended all bookings in the Middle East. And in this article, they talk about how they tripled exports right before the conflict popped off, okay? The Strait of Hermose. There's a lot of conflict going there and it's super messy. Right? And it's not just Iran. It's like everything around it, right? So Costco implicitly stated restrictions and conflict to the choke point. They explicitly said they can't really fuck with this shit right now. Like right before this shit happened, there was a bunch of like shadow fleet vessels. This is where like basically they had like little spy. Let's call them ninja ships that were secretly moving oil to China, right? At a discount, right? Leading up to the battle, the U.S. targeted a bunch of these ships, about 12 of them. Knocked them down, right? So I really believe that the U.S. government has been strategically trying to cut off China's oil supply. This is some real shit. Here it is. This is at the Department of the Treasury, right? Treasury targets. Iran shadow fleet network supplying and they were supplying ballistic missiles and shit. They was doing all types of shit. And this was happening like before. This was the 25th. And I believe the attack started on the 28th. So we was already on that shit, man. Here's the thing. The oil that was coming out of Iran to China was not being priced in U.S. dollars. Like that shit was outside of the system. Here's the thing. Here's something you should know. Every time a country tries to sell oil and they don't price it in U.S. dollars, bombs start dropping, right? That's what happened in Libya. Gaddafi was trying to sell that shit in some African currency. Bombs start dropping. Saddam Hussein was trying to do it. Bombs start dropping. The reason that happens is because the United States needs to keep the dollar as the world's reserve currency. It's super critical to our economy. And one of the major reasons it is the world's reserve currency, because oil is priced in dollars, U.S. dollars and sold in U.S. dollars. So countries have to get U.S. dollars in order to get oil. And if anything happens to disrupt that, bombs start dropping like almost immediately. You can't fucking count on it. There's mad times in history that's happened. A lot of times when there's like a big conflict in the Middle East, oil's prices go through the roof. I believe that Trump strategically targeted Venezuela first in order to get access to their oil reserves. Venezuela is sitting on one of the largest oil reserves on Earth. And now the U.S. has access or control of that oil in that region, right? So typically when there's a big conflict in the U.S., oil goes through the roof almost every time. But this time it didn't go up as much. Why? Because we got that Venezuelan oil. I think this was all done strategically. But who cares about that? How do we make money off of it? All right. I feel like there's a few things we can invest in stocks and ETFs. One of them that I've been talking about a lot is XLE, the energy sector, because they're going to have higher cash flow, especially down the line. Once the U.S. puts some shadow regime in charge of Iran and they'll stop giving that oil to China for the low, it's going to be placed in dollars and the U.S. is going to have more control over that because there's going to be more oil supply. There's going to be more profits in the energy sector. Price of oil may go down, but the companies who refine it, their profits will go up. So I like XLE. I also like ITA. I've been talking about ITA for mad long, right? And that's the defense sector. I think we need to start calling it the offense sector. But these are companies like Halliburton. These are companies that make money off the conflict, like arms dealers and shit of that nature. So I was saying that around the Venezuela time and it went way up. ETF went way up after that. So did XLE. I was saying the same shit around XLE. In fact, hindsight is 2020. But as soon as Trump changed the Department of Defense's name to the Department of War, we should have started buying ITA leap call options because you don't change the name of unless you plan on doing that shit, right? You don't change the name to a verb that you don't plan on participating in, right? If I change my bedroom's name to the fuck palace, you better believe I'm going to be doing some royal fucking in there. Nobody would do that just because. That'd be insane. If I rename one of my closets the weapons storage center, I'm not going to not put artillery in there. You know what I'm saying? So when he named the shit the Department of War, we should have been like ITA, ITA, because he kind of told us what he was on. Fuck all that shit he was saying. No new wars. None of that shit. That shit was cat. Hey, man, this may come as a surprise to some of y'all. Trump don't always tell the truth. Seems like no new wars was one of them. And then there's some hedges against volatility in the market, which is always gold. You can invest in GLD. When shit gets crazy, gold typically goes up when there's conflict. Short term, those of you who are less risk averse, you can invest in the volatility index, VIX futures. But longer term, GLD is just a gold, man. It's been going crazy the whole time. I mean, big surprise. This may not be a novel concept, but the war in the Middle East was mainly about oil, I think. Here's the thing, though. The people there are suffering. I hope this comes to a speedy resolution. Hope the bad guys lose. Somebody who's from Iran usually like, this is a good thing. This is a hundred percent good thing. There is zero doubt about this being a good thing because there is no other way that we can get rid of this corrupted government. Well, you heard it here first. Hope that shed some light on it for you guys. I'll say it.