There's only about 2 years left to get rich. It might be less, but a safe bet is about 24 months. That's the bad news. The good news is from now until 2 years from now, we're in a window where it's never been easier to get rich. But once that window closes, upward mobility is going to be super difficult. This is a graph I had AI made of what's called a K-shaped economy. [music] AI went a little crazy with the graphics. I'm going to be honest with you. It ain't going to take all your jobs just yet. But it's a K-shaped economy, right? where basically people who have businesses and own assets, they're able to move up and get [music] richer. People who just work for wages, they keep getting poorer. And it's always been like this. A AI is just accelerating. Over the last 50 years, the the gap has grown pretty exponentially. [music] It's growing even wider now, and it's about to seriously accelerate because of AI. AI is getting so advanced. It's already replacing a lot of people, whole industries. You know, people are getting laid off. You know, I could have had a graphic designer make something like this, but instead I just yelled some words and into chat jippity and it spit this out for me. Well, really it was Gemini. You can tell from this and it was free. I remember 5 years ago I used to have to have a graphic designer do this [\h__\h] for me. I don't have a graphic designer on my team anymore. [music] That position has been filled by robots that live in my phone. And those same robots are going to replace you. And the only way out of it, the only way to to start getting on this side of the cake is to own assets, businesses. And we're going to talk about that in this video. The good news is it's never been a easier time to acquire those assets and to start a business using AI. The window will close once it gets so advanced. The barrier of entry to get rich is going to be too steep. like whatever economic status you're at, I don't want to say you're stuck there, but I don't see a version of this where we'll be able to get out of it. For example, a lot of people are saying that AI is going to be so advanced pretty soon that we're going to have something called universal basic income and it's going to be the only way to provide for people because most people won't have a job, right? Most people won't be able to work because AI will be doing most of the work. That may be cool if you don't like luxury. I for one don't want the government to decide how much money y'all should get every month. And if you are on the bottom end of that K. I believe that's the only future you have to look forward to. It's going to be a forced socialism. We got about 24 months to escape that reality for you watching this. We going to have to go super hard to make sure we don't end up on that side. So to end up on the upward side of the K-shaped economy is going to be only people who have businesses, who have assets, and who have leverage, ownership, distribution, or attention. And if you're working for income, exchanging time for money, you're going to be stuck depending on those wages, at least until they figure out some sort of universal basic income. What do we need to do during this time? It's basically a timer. It's like a countdown. AI is not coming. It's already here. It's not replacing every job right now. Right now it's replacing the jobs in the middle. Most CEOs, seauite executives, they're pretty good for right now. If you're working labor, right, if you a plumber, [\h__\h] police officer, like those kind of jobs, they're pretty safe right now. It's the [\h__\h] in the middle, the middle class. We didn't get the last job report cuz the government was shut down. I think that's deliberate cuz I don't think it's going to be good. Yeah. Companies are laying people off left and right because they don't need them cuz of AI. People ask me, can I get a job? you know, I I've been hiring for was like in sales positions. That's one of the jobs that's pretty safe for now. You guys probably know people who've been laid off. You probably know people who've graduated from schools and it's difficult for them to get jobs. This is not going away. In fact, they're just getting started. So, what AI is doing is is deleting the average. The only way to escape this is to have assets that produce income and or to have your own business. Because if you have your own business, you can leverage all these AI tools to grow faster with way less money. That's what we're seeing now in the economy. Stock markets hitting record high with the stocks assets, right? Or reflections of assets. We see gold prices hitting record high, silver hitting record high, and business is getting huge evaluations. These are assets that are growing while income is going lower. Studies show that personal debt is hitting all-time highs. The amount of savings people have is hitting all-time lows. The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poor. What do we need to do for these next 24 months? I'm about to lay out a game plan for you. The people who know AI and know how to use it and and harness it will survive and thrive and they can get on [music] the upward end of that K. The people who don't you know how to use it, they're going to suffer cuz their jobs are going to get replaced. But this is why you feel broke even if you work hard because prices are going up, stocks are going up, assets are going up, the workers keep getting crushed. AI can get you out of that. What are the steps we need to take? Well, we got to start investing in assets. We have to have a business. At one point, I was saying entrepreneurship is not for everyone. Everyone's not a natural entrepreneur. I believe things have changed where you got to have a a business that's an incomeroucing asset. The idea of getting a highpaying job, I don't know if that's going to be a real thing in the next few years. You got to start some sort of business. Start some sort of service-based business because a service-based business has low startup costs and low overhead. Most businesses fail because they don't make enough income to keep up with their expenses. But if your expenses are low, it's difficult to fail. This could be any service. Data analytics, you can do taxes, you can do video editing, that's still a job right now. You can actually help other businesses set up AI infrastructure. Or you can do some sort of coaching. I made my first million with a service-based business [music] called online coaching where I help people get in in great shape online. You know, I had been a inerson trainer for a long time, but with online training, I was I noticed I was able to charge less, help [music] more people, and get them better results online than most p most inperson trainers can get for the inerson training. And I'll tell you why. The reason is because I I track their diet every day and make sure they're hitting their calories, getting shape is mostly diet. Can't out train a bad diet. But you can outd bad training. If you want to learn that, I'm actually doing a free training this weekend where I will show you how to grow your online fitness business using AI, using a lot of tools. I'm going to tell you, the link is in the description. You can sign up for that. Now, any service-based business you want to pick, your job is to figure out which one you're going to do. The business is going to be one asset. Another asset, people don't talk about this, but this is an asset, building your personal brand, building your social media presence. This is for sure an asset. It gives you leverage, right? With the right amount of following, you could actually [\h__\h] pick money out the sky almost. It's the closest thing to magic I've seen. And this is YouTube, Instagram, Tik Tok. The way you can monetize that is you can either do affiliate deals, you can get brand deals, you can advertise someone else's product and and get commission. Or what I want you to do is use your social media to promote [music] your service-based business that we started before, right? Because your business is marketing. We're going to use social media. It's free and you can grow exponentially if you do the right things. These are things I'm going to talk about on the free training like how you can do it. But now you can use AI to do it and take it to the next level. You can use your content to build your audience and then you can sell them more online. Right now we're at a we're at a a a weird spot in the timeline where you can use AI to grow your social media way faster. For example, I I've posted mad [\h__\h] that was AI generated and people didn't know. They thought it was me. And this technology right now is the worst it's ever going to be. In two years, once it's really good and it's democratized and everybody knows how to use it, it's going to be difficult to actually establish yourself. But if you are established by then on social media and you're able to go live and do stuff to prove you're a real person, then you'll have the leverage and you'll still be able to win under those circumstances. I really believe that. For example, let me just show you something I whipped up today. You know, there's example of how you can use AI to to pump out content. And keep in mind, this is the worst this technology will ever be. Listen to me. There is no excuse not to pump out content. Now, because to be clear, this is fake. This is all AI. Everything with the purple background, right? I just uploaded a picture of myself, right? And this is the real video. And I got my I got it to mimic me. And this this stuff, this some of the stuff I'm going to teach you when I talk about how to grow your fitness business with AI this weekend [music] like this from my avatar. But it's like this. I'm just talking directly in my phone, but my avatar is set up with the fancy lighting, the fancy camera, [music] and the fancy microphones. I can just roll out of bed, say whatever I'm feeling, and I don't even have to shower or brush my teeth. All I have to do is come up with the script and turn on my phone and start recording. You want to learn how to do this? I'm doing a live training. So, check it out. It's like when I really did this shoot, when I took this picture, I recorded a bunch of videos that day, right? But man, we had to set up the fancy camera. We had to get the lights out. I had to wear the mic. [music] I replicated it with new material just by something I uploaded from my [\h__\h] phone. I did it from my [\h__\h] phone, you know, with consumer grade software. And there's so much of it that I'll show you how to I'll show you how to use it all. Now, remember I said people are going to be making fake influencers. I turned my girlfriend into a fake influencer. I whipped this up today like 15 minutes after. I'm turning my girlfriend into a fitness influencer using AI. First, take a still image of her, drop it into nano banana. Then, I'm going to make the outfit red. then put her in the gym, then generate a few images of her doing different exercises. And I'm going take each one of those images and drop them into Grank to transform them into videos. Once I have all the videos I want, I'm going to drop them all into Cap Cut. And I'm use Chad GPT to generate a script, but I'm going to use Chad GBT's dictation tool and record Chad Jippidity saying it in a Latina voice. I'll record it straight into Cap Cut. And I'm use AI to make the background music. I'll record myself playing a few chords on my guitar. Record that directly in the Suno AI. Tell Suno I want a regatone beat. Drop that in the cap cut too. Edit everything up and now I've made her a full fitness video in less than 15 minutes. >> They say squats solve everything. Except maybe your love for tacos. I'm Jana and this is my booty workout. We do three sets of back squats, 10 to 12 reps, because that booty deserves it. Then three sets of split squats, 10 to 12 reps because balance is key. And we finish with three sets of Romanian deadlifts. 10 to 12 reps. So you strut with confidence. Wonderful plan. Download my Dominican booty blaster. Link in bio. >> I'm saying this is the worst this technology is going to be. And now we're still at a point where not everybody even knows about it or knows how to use it, right? And that's why I'm going to teach you how to use it this weekend, right? cuz you can use this stuff to grow your grow your following way faster. And this is something that I've been doing. I'm a seasoned influencer, you know? I've been on this social media for like 15 years, but I'm taking advantage of it. I don't even have to 100% rely on it all the time. I'm using adding it with my regular [\h__\h] Like I'm real right now. You need to learn how to use this these tools too because you can come up with so much. Even if you don't use like AI generated videos or images, you still need to use uh AI to come up with content ideas. You need to use AI to help you come up with scripts. You need to use AI to help you edit the videos. These are things you can do to build your social media following super fast because it's really about volume. Growing on social media is always been a volume game. A [\h__\h] who puts out one video a week is not going to grow as fast as a person who puts out multiple videos a day. CEO of Instagram came out and said, "The more you post, the faster you will grow." Imagine if you can pump out mad videos every day because you [music] you're able to utilize that AI. What would that do for your business? Whatever service based business you started, you'll be able to grow it exponentially and get clients from social media. These are the main things you need to do. You have to start some sort of service-based business. [music] I recommend online training because that's what I'm most well verssed in. But if you have some proclivities in some other areas, then [\h__\h] with that, right? If you a tax guy, come out with tax content and you can you can come out with like eight videos a day on different tax strategy [\h__\h] [music] right now that we got AI. Even if you're not an expert on some [\h__\h] now you got AI to help you come up with scripts. And we're going to talk about how to do it and the training. And you can also use AI to get clients, you can also use AI to help you make sales, right? Step two, you got to learn sales because if you're if you're if you're doing a a service based business, you're probably going to do sales. Typically, not going to be a link in your bio sort of situation. you start making a bunch of money, you're probably going to get on sales, whether it's on Zoom, phone, or in person, right? You need to learn sales. And here's the thing, the sales is one of the few things I really believe AI is going to have a hard time replicating. Every demo I've seen of some sort of sales agent or something kind of sucks. It doesn't sound convincingly human. And I think people want to talk to human, at least for the next few years. I think we [music] got about 5 years of that, right? But you can get [\h__\h] rich in 5 years. Use AI to help you get better at sales. I I talked about another video and I talked about how you can set up a AI sales trainer. They'll act like a prospect and you can act like a sales person. You can start practicing with AI and then they can spit out ways to tell you what you did well, what you could have did better. You can you can practice handling objections. You can do role play with AI. I'm going to show you guys more about that on the training. But you got to learn sales, right? It's very important. And if you good good at that, right? Like you can sell anything. Like my my dad once told me, if you learn sales, you never go broke. I learned sales and I never been broke. And and then when you start making some money, you got to start buying assets. stocks, real estate, crypto if that's your thing. It's not my thing, right? While you're building your other asset, which is your business, and your other asset, which is your social media, if you do that over the next 24 months, you can become a a millionaire. I've seen people become a millionaire in a year or two. You got to go super hard, and you have to work hard, too. I I'm I'm not saying anything [music] any of this going to be easy, but it's easier than it's ever been. You can become a millionaire in the next 24 months, and if you don't do it, it's going to be super hard to become a millionaire after that. It's going to be harder for your children to do it. Right? Whatever you do in the next 24 months will dictate [music] what happens for your bloodline for generations. And I don't mean that as hyperbole. I don't want to sound like an alarmist. The writing is on the wall. Start a service-based business. Use social media to grow it. And use AI to help you do both or to help you build the business and grow social media. Learn sales. Use AI to help you get better at sales. and then invest all your disposable income into assets [music] that will appreciate over time and you'll be in a good position. If you want to learn more about this, I'm doing a live training this weekend where I'll show you exactly how to grow your online fitness business with AI. I'm going show you how to use AI to grow your following. I'm show you how to use AI to actually get clients and make more sales. And I'm going to show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so they get amazing results. Click the link in the description. All right, peace.