In this video, I want to give you the blueprint to how to make $5,000 a month as an online trainer. I'm well suited to tell you how to do this because not only have I been an online trainer for over 15 years, I've made millions of dollars from online training, but I've helped other people build hugely successful online training businesses doing it full-time. Some of these people had no experience. Some people had never trained anybody before in their life. Some people never ran a business before. But I've been able to help over 15,000 of these people build successful online fitness business. And I'm going to show you how to do it, too. Before I get into it, I also have a free ebook called The Ten Commandments of Online Training. You can click the link in description right now, and it's really going to give you even more detail than I I am able to give you in this YouTube video. It'll set you down the right path. It's 100% free. Let's get into it. So, you can become a successful online trainer even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, right? There's no law saying you have to be certified to train people online. And being certified doesn't mean you're a good trainer. It just means you passed the test. I'm not saying anything against uh getting certified. I have certification uh with NASA. Great. I learned a lot. I'm not speaking against education, but I don't want you to think that it's a limitation. I've helped tons of people build successful online training businesses and they've actually helped people get great results online without ever being certified. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to build your online fitness business and I'm going to show you how you can get great results for your clients cuz that's really what's important. If you don't get great results for your clients, then you are a scammer. So a lot of times when people say, you know, man, I want to be online trainer, but they say that fitness industry or the online fitness industry is oversaturated. They're both right and wrong. Let's say this represents all trainers. How many trainers do you think there are online? Like how many [\h__\h] with trainer in their bio on Instagram do you think there are? There are millions. You do not want to compete with all of those people. You want to stand out. And the way you do that is by having what's called a niche. So step one of becoming an online trainer is pick a niche or niche if you are pretentious. Pick a niche. Now when I say niche, this means something you want to specialize in. Because if you are just a fitness guy or a fitness girl, then you have to compete with millions of trainers. Under those circumstances, it is oversaturated. But we're not going to do that. We're going to we're going to pick a niche and we're going to become specialists, right? So, I want to show you one of my students, Kelly Nicole Fit. Kelly made $1.5 million last year as an online trainer, and she specializes in helping women, basically recoming when I met her. I helped her grow her following and we're going to talk about that in this video as well. Even with a small following, she was making like over 20k a month. So, first thing you got to do is pick a niche. Become a specialist. When I think of a niche, I think of it like this. This N stands for niche. You want to think about who you are selling to. What problem do you want to help them solve? Because business is all problem solving, right? I needed a microphone that I can yell into and it would pick up my wonderful voice without picking up the background noises or anything that may be happening and sure solve that problem for me. I needed a device where I can write on for my YouTube videos. Apple solved that problem with me with this for this iPad mini and this Apple Pencil, right? It's all problem. So, what problem do you want to solve them? When it really gets special is how are you going to solve that problem? This is the most important part. Who you going to help? What problem you going to help them solve? And how you going to solve that problem? When I first started my online fitness business, and mind you, I did this back in like 0809, right? Right after the financial recession after my father had killed himself, right, I was working like several jobs and I had to take care of the whole family. And I figured like, man, there's got to be a better way. The only thing I was really good at is training people cuz I had been a trainer since I was 17. First thing I had to do was find out my niche, right? You know, this is something I learned in business school, right? Cuz I I graduated from Howard University. So, I I took these principles and applied it to online training. And so who I wanted to market to was men, but not all men. I wanted to focus on young men. So men who are like, let's call it 25 to 35. It's very important that you pick a gender and an age range. And and let me tell you why. Because it's difficult to market to men and women. A lot of trainers have take issue with this because they say, "Oh, I want to help men and women." You can train men and women, but it's difficult to market to men and women. So for example, let's look at You can look at Secret Deodorant. You could just look at it without knowing anything and you know who they're marketing to, right? Like look at look at the the the fonts. Look at the colors. Now, let me ask you a question. Are men and women's armpits way different? No. Pretty much the same. But they're marketing to women. Now, if we look at a deodorant that's marketed towards men, you can look at this and kind of tell who they're marketing to. For example, this one has a goddamn [\h__\h] bear biting the name out, biting into the name. We can safely assume that's for men, even if they don't say. Look at the colors, the f the the the names. Here's the thing. This fresh scent of I have this in the house and the secrets like powder fresh scent. Exact same ingredients. There's almost nothing different. Exact same smell, too. They're owned by the same company, but they know it's both Proctor and Gamble. It's the same company, but the brands are different because it's difficult to market to women the same way you want to market to to men. For example, if we wanted to have a deodorant that was marketed towards men and women, what would we pick? What color would it be? What would be the name? What would be the fine? Whatever you decide, whatever you're thinking is going to be something that's not appealing to either one of them. So, you can train everybody, but you can't market any right. And then I pick the age range. You want to pick a 10ear age range because men age 25 to 35, they think similar enough. But a man in his 40s, I'm I'm 40 now. I'm 42. I do not think the same way I thought when I was 25. The marketing that appeals to a 25-year-old guy is not going to be the same marketing that's going to appeal to me and vice versa. So, when you think about our marketing, we want to stand out. If you stand out, you can't appeal to everyone. Look what I did though, right? Remember all trainers? Well, I said, "Fuck it. I'm only going to focus on men." No, diddy. But not even all men. Only men aed 25 to 35. So, boom. Already I'm not competing with a bunch of people. I'm not competing with all trainers. I'm only trying to get a small segment of the marketing. And now, my content is going to stand out. Now, we got to go to what problems we want to solve. I chose to help people get ripped. And I knew that meant they wanted to be muscular with low body fat. But I use their language, get ripped. If I was marketing to women, I would say get toned, right? Because that's what women say. Even though as a trainer, we know that that means they want to be muscular with low body fat. But then you got to think, why does that person want to get ripped? So here's the thing. The reason a man aged 25 to 35 wants to get ripped is going to be different from a reason why old man wants to do it. A old man might want to do it cuz he wants to live longer. He wants more energy. He wants to be able to play with his grandkids, walk his daughter down the aisle or some [\h__\h] But a young man, he not thinking about that [\h__\h] What is he thinking about? Girls. In fact, a man aged 25 to 35, it's difficult to get him to think about anything else. So when I when I was doing my marketing, it was me either me being ripped or girls with ass, right? That was it. That's what I showed for for most of my most popular. Just me being ripped. A woman would see this and think, "Oh, I don't want to look like that. I don't want to look that muscular." Right? It wasn't for her. It was for the guy. And even the workout videos, I would have girls in them. Not to attract girls, but so, but for the guys, you see girl in your video, man, it's like, okay, cool. I might keep watching. So, it's what you focus on what they want. Boom. Now, this changes as you change demographics. This right here is why it's difficult to market to both genders. The what, and it's going to be different in the different niche, right? And how I market myself was I do keto now, but back then I did intermittent fasting with bodybuilding. I'll just abbreviate it. So, think about this. millions of trainers. How many of them 10 years ago, right, helped men aed 25 to 35 get ripped with intermittent fasting and bodybuilder training? There wasn't a lot of people who did it back then. I was one of the few. I specialize in this. And that's what made me stand out. Now I'm a specialist, not a generalist. And specialists always make more money than generalists. Who makes more money? A heart surgeon or a regular ass doctor? Right? You go to him if you got a ear infection, your throat hurt, you got a STD or something, right? or a [\h__\h] who only operates on hearts, right? The specialist. Now, even if the [\h__\h] STD doctor is like, "You know what, man? I know how to operate on hearts." I wouldn't even want him to. I want a [\h__\h] who only operates on hearts. I want the specialist. And people want the specialist, too. So, imagine two trainers. One of them, he only helps men aed 25 to 35 get ripped with intermittent fasting. And versus guy, he's just a fitness guy. He'll help you do whatever you want, man. If you want to be a pro alete, he'll help you with that. If you obese, he'll help you with that. If you want to be a powerlifter, he'll help you with that. He men, women, children, everybody. When the guy ageed 25 to 35 who wants to get ripped with intermittent fasting when he sees those who trainer, who's he going to pick? There's no competition. In fact, he'll pay the specialist more, right? Because he's a specialist and you stand out. So, that's step one. And in the ebook, Ten Commandments of Online Training, I talk more about that and I give some different examples of my students who've used it and it'll help you get idea of what your niche should be. But it's it's critical you have a niche. This is also how you grow your following because step two is once you find out what your niche is and who your target market is and what they want. Make content around your niche to show that you specialize in this thing. This will actually help you grow faster than if you just did general fitness because this is how you grow online. People have to share your content for you to grow. That's the main way people grow. People share it. So when somebody who's in your niche finds you and and you post something that's helpful, what do they do? They share it. They show it to their friends and they probably have friends who are like them or have the same goals and interests as them and they share too. That's how you grow your following. That's the only real way to grow your following. Put it out really good content that people share. So you got to make content specifically around your niche and only your niche. These these companies are smart. So when they do boost your [\h__\h] or put it on explore page or put it on the homepage, it's not on everyone's homepage. It's not on everyone's explorer page. when they see a certain amount of people, a certain kind of person interacting with your content is going to show it to more people like that. So something that's on your explorer page is going to be way different than what's on my explorer page cuz we're into different [\h__\h] The people who are into that is going to show on their page. If you're making general fitness [\h__\h] nobody's going to be excited enough to share it. It's not going to show show the algorithm that it should show it to more people like that. The way you grow your following is actually to narrow your market. That's two. Start posting content on your niche. That's step two. Step three is you want to start entering Facebook groups where your niche is. So, some of you are guys thinking, I don't have a big following. That's cool, man. There are tons of Facebook groups full of people in your following. And Facebook groups, we we call this group hacking. I talk about it in the book. Once you have your niche, you know what they want. Then you go in those groups and you also start posting helpful content in those groups. You want to do that every day. Find as many groups as possible. There's tons of groups. You want to start posting helpful content in those groups, right? You're not telling people you want, hey, come train with me, nothing. You're just posting helpful content in the groups. Step four, you want to start DM conversations with the people who engage with that content, the people who like the content, the people who comment on it. You want to hit them up in the DMs and start conversations with and you don't say, "Hey, buy my [\h__\h] I saw you. Hey, what's going on, bro? I saw you comment on my video. What fitness goals do you need help with?" Something along those lines. You just start a conversation with them about their goals. You need any help with fitness, man. Or what are you struggling with when it comes to your fitness goals? You just ask questions and they'll tell you and you just keep asking questions. I give my I give my students a a script to follow, but Clifto are you. Ask them what they're trying to accomplish with their fitness goal. Ask them what's been holding them back. You can give them some advice. Then you invite them to get on Zoom with you. This is where you sell them. We're not going to sell in the DMs. We're going to start conversation DMs and then get them on a Zoom call. This is why I teach all my students who are making a bunch of money. And on a Zoom call, it's better if you have a sales script. I don't have time to go into it now, but you can get a sales script from anywhere. You can learn sales. And basically, you're you're going to ask them questions about what they're struggling with, what their problems are again. And then you're going to tell them what they need to do to accomplish the goal. Then you're going to ask them if they want some help with that. And most of them will say, "Yeah, they don't want to do it on their own." Right? They've been trying to do the [\h__\h] on their own cuz they know what to do, but they need help. They don't need more information. They need help staying accountable. And when they say yes, you're going to tell them how you helped them. You're going to tell them how you you're going to give them a custom diet plan, custom workout plan, but most importantly, you're going to keep them accountable. You're going to check on them every day to make sure that they actually follow the plan. Make sure they they actually follow the diet. This is step six. Yeah. Just set up a Google sheet with their workout plan, their diet plan, and have them fill it out. Have them fill out their macros every day. Have them fill out the workouts every day, what they did. And you check on them every day. You need to hit your clients up every morning. And if they did follow the workout plan and you say, "Yo, congratulations, man. Yo, great job. Let's keep up that momentum." If they did not follow the workout plan or they did not track it, then you say to them, "Hey, man. What happened yesterday? What what can we do to get you back on track?" What you want to do is you want to give them positive reinforcement when they do some right and negative reinforcement when they do some wrong. And what's going to happen is you're going to be training them, but not just training them like the way you think about training as a trainer. I mean training them the way you train them as a pet. Cuz that's how we train pets. I don't have a pet, but I assume that's how you guys train your dogs. They do some right, you give them a treat, but it was all from the positive reinforcement. When they do something you don't want, like, you know, chew up a shoe, bite the baby, piss on the girlfriend, I don't know, right? Yeah. Then you give them negative reinforcement. You hit them with a newspaper, spray them with water, pistol whip them. I don't know how you work, how dog how it works. But the negative reinforcement, they learn not to do it. We're going to do the same thing with humans, right? Cuz it works with humans, too. Positive reinforcement. And then they're going to get in the habit of actually tracking their diets and tracking their workout plan. Here's the beauty of it. You don't even have to give them a good plan. It's better if you gave them a good plan. And I teach my students how to give them good plans, but anything will work. Especially if it's a [\h__\h] off the street. Like, anything will work, right? We're not training people to be an Olympian. Here's a study by Duke University. They had a bunch of fat boys. All they had them do was track their [\h__\h] macros and calories in My Fitness Pal for three months. They didn't give them no workout plan, no diet plan. They didn't have them in a caloric deficit. They didn't tell them to do intermittent fasting, keto, vegan, none of this is just track your [\h__\h] calories, fat ass, right? And guess what happened over the course of those 3 months? They lost on average 5 lbs with no plan. Cuz just the mere act of tracking, people actually lose weight. Now you can give them a better plan than nothing. Like these science nerds gave them nothing and they lost weight. That's the power of tracking because anything you track performance will improve. It's a chico to life. If you want to get better at something, just start tracking it. Keep yourself accountable. But most people won't keep themselves accountable. That's why they fat. That's why they came to you. And our job is to keep them accountable. And the beauty of it is is like AI can't do that. AI can't keep them accountable. You can ignore a computer or a app or even a te a [\h__\h] auto text message. I know from the last election, I ignored all the text messages from both parties. I gave nobody nothing. But I responded to all my friends. I responded to my mom, right? You you respond to people. AI can't replace that. The human touch, you can actually always charge a premium for. People don't even value stuff that's autogenerated, right? When you get autogenerated text or message, something, you ignore that [\h__\h] Emails, you ignore all that [\h__\h] But from something from a human, you're going to pay attention to, right? So that's why this is never going to go away. Only humans can keep other humans accountable, right? It's just like when you go to the gym, it's way harder to skip [\h__\h] leg day if your homies going to meet you there. Now, you may be saying, "How much do I charge?" Let me give you some context. With Inerson training, the average trainer at the average gym in America charges $100 per session. Some places charge a lot more. Like Equinox is like $250 per session. So, if they see that person three times a week, that's $750 per week. But the average is 100, which means if you see a trainer three times, that's going to be $300 per week. So every time you see someone in the gym training with a trainer, they're paying somewhere around that price. The thing is, the trainer is only going to focus on working with them for that hour they're in the gym. But now that means they got 23 other hours today to [\h__\h] everything up, to [\h__\h] up their sleep and to [\h__\h] up their diet, the most important part. The diet is the most important part. I remember this when I was an inerson trainer. There was some people no matter how much I trained them, it wouldn't lose weight. And I was a good trainer. Then I noticed that there was aerobic instructors, a few aerobic instructors at the gym. Their job was cardio. These [\h__\h] sweating like a [\h__\h] in church all day in the cardio room and they were still like had bellies and [\h__\h] That's because you can't out train a bad diet. You can't outdiet bad training. People would think, man, online training is not good cuz I can't work with their form and I can't fix their form. [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] The most important part is the diet. So, what what I started doing and this what I suggest you do is you give them the workout plan and if you're super [\h__\h] concerned about their form or some [\h__\h] and you can have them film themselves or something, they're going to do it on their own. They don't follow the diet on their own, but we need to make sure they're tracking and make sure they're keeping. We got to be meticulous about them adhering to the diet plan they will especially because it's the first time anybody most of these [\h__\h] has tracked their diet or followed a serious diet plan in their whole [\h__\h] lives, right? Diet is the most important part. And the inerson trainers charging more and they're not even doing the most important part. That's why I think online training is a better service. Here's how much you charge for the better service. You're going to sell 16we packages for $9.97. 16we packages for $9.97. significantly cheaper than inerson training. This is why we want to get on a sales call with them, right? Cuz we wanted someone to give you $1,000, right? When's the last time somebody DM'd you and you gave them $1,000? Maybe never, but people spend $1,000 over Zoom and on the phone all day, every day. You know, to spend that kind of money, people have to kind of get to know you better, right? You got to think they watch some, they consumed your content, they talked to you in a DM, and you on a sales call with them, right? You were able to build trust during that during that time period. they say no to that or they can't afford it or it's too much or whatever the thing then we do monthly for $2.97 or $300 a month which is way cheaper than inerson training and we're going to track their diet. We're going to give them a better product for less money that's less time intensive for us because we're just going to give them the plan and make sure they do it every day. And if that's doesn't work then you do $80 a week. If they're working with inerson trainer you're spending $100 a session on average. So, we're charging, you know, less than a third of the price and giving them a better a better product cuz the diet is the most important part. If you can get 20 if you get just 25 clients paying you $80 a week. Keep an average of 25 clients for a whole year, which is 52 weeks, that is $104,000, that's like what a a brand new doctor makes, right? You making six figures off 25 clients. Do you need millions of followers to make 25 clients? You probably got 25 people following me right now who'd be excited to work with you, especially if you really honed in on their diet. That's the game plan to make money as online trainer. If you want more information about that, I got the free ebook called the Ten Commandments of Online Training. Click the link in the description, download. It's 100% free. It really goes into way more detail about how you can uh break this down. And there's case studies from a lot of my students so you can see their success stories as well, and you can replicate those in your own life. All right, link is in the description. I know you love you.