Most people won't get rich. And it's not because they don't have enough skill. It's not because it's not just because they don't work hard enough. It's not because they're not smart enough. Most people will not get rich because they lack this one crucial skill. And this skill is to be able to control your state. State control. When I say state control, I mean your mental state. control your emotions. See, the average person is their their emotional state is dictated by outside forces, outside events or other people. The problem with that is if you want to get rich, man, it's building a business, being an entrepreneur is the easiest path to get, okay, not the easiest path to get rich, but most rich people are entrepreneurs. Majority, you could have like a really highpaying job. Um, you could have invested a bunch of money in something, right? But the majority of people with staggering wealth are entrepreneurs. And entrepreneurship is the most stressful aside aside from war is probably the most stressful thing a human can do because it's constant stress and and the bigger your business gets the more stress it becomes right I got like 30 employees now and all their problems become my problems you know I got I'm respond responsible for their livelihoods to a certain extent. Like I my performance dictates their ability to pay their bills and feed their families. And that's a that's pressure. That's pressure. And then you have all these customers, right? You have to make sure your customers are getting the high quality product or service. That's pressure. Then you have competitors. That's pressure, right? And then you have people attacking you because they want your spot or they want to be like you or they just don't like you. That's pressure. And when I see people spazzing out because of traffic or spazzing out because a Puerto Rican was at the Super Bowl, right? Like it it's I think, oh man, the there's no h how are these people how could these people ever run a multi-million dollar business if every little things causes them to lose their [\h__\h] You get what I'm saying? [\h__\h] plane gets delayed, people start spazzing, yelling like like come on, man. Grow up. You know, and your ability to handle stress, handle pressure, handle disappointment, handle failure, and control your own emotions is a basically a key to success in not only business or financial success, but success in all endeavors, right? The more you can control your emotions, the easier it'll be for you to become successful. And I want to break down exactly how you can do it. And it's three steps. And before I get into the three steps, first thing we need to understand is that emotions are not real. Sometimes people get mad when I say that. I didn't say they're not important. I didn't say that uh they shouldn't be honored or or they're not valuable. I said they're not real. Real as in like tangible, right? Emotions. You ever think about what what is an emotion, right? Well, emotions are nothing but different combinations of neur neurochemicals going off in your brain, right? Norepinephrine, oxytocin, uh dopamine, you know, and a host of other neurochemicals and your brain releases these and different combinations of them. That's what emotions are, right? That's why when when someone's depressed, they put them on anti-depressants. it it either blocks certain neural neurochemicals or receptors or it enhances certain neurochemicals or neural receptors, right? And and people and there is an effect, right? That's that's how psych psychiatric medication works. And I'm not to be clear, I'm not a pro- psychiatric medication person or anything. I'm just explaining to you that it's a biological thing. Emotions are literally biological. It's literally they're all in your head, right? You can't see, feel, or touch an emotion like not feel like in a physical sense, right? But it's happening internally like your emotions are in your head, right? So before we get into three the the three ways to control your emotions that needs to be established, right? And we also we also need to establish that your emotions are your responsibility. When people says, "Oh, he made me mad or this makes me mad." That's a declaration of weakness because and and I there are things that make me mad too, right? But I understand that that's weakness and that's that's a that's an area for improvement for me because things shouldn't be able to make you mad or make you happy or make you sad. You should be in charge of your your emotions. Your emotions are your responsibility and you need to dictate. I'm going to show you how in these three steps. But you need to dictate the emotion you want to feel at a particular time independent of the situations, right? And there's some situations you won't be able to do that, right? Like you get your arm chopped off, somebody close to you die, your dog gets sick, and you get sad. I understand that, right? But the if you're gonna get sad, make it be the big [\h__\h] not traffic or delayed flight, right? >> [laughter] >> You know, because the the more you can control your emotions under more difficult circumstances will dictate your success and your and it's it really it's a reflection of your limitations, right? Because you won't be if the more stress you can handle, the higher you can rise, right? Right? The more you control your emotions under more difficult situations, your ceiling rises. All right? So, they're your responsibility. And so, when people say, "Oh, man. Money won't make you happy." I'm like, "No [\h__\h] dumbass. Nothing is supposed to make me happy or make me sad." You know, I'm in my emotions are my responsibility, not monies, right? not this inanimate object, right? I don't make money to be happy. I'm happy and I make money. You get what I'm saying? Nothing should make having a kid shouldn't make you happy. You get be happy and have kids, right? [laughter] Right. Going to the amusement park shouldn't make you happy. Hey, let we're happy and we're going to the amusement park. Right. It's a reframe. Yeah. Money won't make you happy. Nothing should make you happy dummy. You need to be in charge of your own emotions. Your emotions are your responsibility, not outside circumstances or other people. All right? It's literally happening in your head. They are your emotions. All right? So that's been established. How do we control our emotions? There are three steps. Well, three there's three levers you can pull. Okay? And I believe that the first one is the least important and the last one is the most important. So we're going to go is it's a hierarchy, you know, but they all count and they can all be effective. All right. So the first one is your physiology. Remember emotions are literally all in your head. Emotions are biological, right? So your your biology can actually affect your emotions. And it makes sense because different emotions, emotions are nothing but neurochemicals that go off in your brain. And to be clear, the way I learned this is because I was diagnosed with bipolar, too, right? So I I I'm I'm somebody who had to learn this stuff to deal with my illness. You get what I'm saying? And um uh presumably my father had it too that undiagnosed, you know, he um he uh voluntarily left Earth, right? Put a bullet in his head when I was like 24. And so I I I I don't want this to sound insensitive to anybody who's dealing with any psychiatric issues or any or or depression or sadness because it's something I've struggled with my whole life. You know, I'm in this is to help you. All right. So your physiology is the first motion creates emotion, right? Uh because there are studies that show that if you hold your body in different ways, right, you'll start to feel that way. Like if you start walking around like this, you'll start to feel like this. You start walking around more confidently, you start to feel more confident, you know? Um, for example, there was a study that was done where they had a bunch of people stand like a [\h__\h] for like two minutes and other people stand in a [\h__\h] triumphant superhero pose for like two minutes. And before the experiment started, they took everyone's uh they tested everyone's testosterone and cortisol levels, right? You know, cortisol is the stress hormone, right? And what they noticed was again these are hormones, right? Emotions are nothing are are nothing but neurochemicals. Okay? What they noticed was after they they held those different poses for two diff two two minutes, they they tested their testosterone and their cortisol again. And the people who were standing like a [\h__\h] their testosterone was lower momentarily, right? Lower and their cortisol was higher. The people who standing triumphantly, their testosterone had increased and their cortisol decreased, right? Your emotions create emotions. One thing I used to do when I had uh the office in New York, we had I had a big ass balcony in New York, right? Manhattan rich [\h__\h] [\h__\h] right? big ass balcony and I kept AI kept a trampoline on that balcony and what I would do was I would um when when we were in the office if if I didn't like the vibes in the office if I didn't like the way we were feeling everybody stop for a second I need everybody go we're all going to go outside and jump on the trampoline [laughter] and I made everybody get up and move and then the vibes were a little different when we returned You know, I'm telling you, emotion creates emotion, right? So, what does that mean for you? When you're feeling sad or you want to you or you want to change your state for whatever reason, then then start moving around like think h how how would what would be the mannerisms of of a person who is in the state you wanted to feel, right? Maybe you want to be happy. All right, force a smile for a little while, you know? Uh if you want to be if you want to be intense and you want to lock in, how would somebody make make the face of somebody who wants to lock in, you know, hold your body like someone who who's locking in? I'm telling you, after a certain amount of time, you will start to feel that way. Motion creates emotion. All right. The third I'm sorry, the second way to to improve to control your emotions is what you focus on. What you focus on, you're going to feel whether it's real or not. like whether it's real or not, that's important. Uh when all the conservatives were saying that Bad Bunny was going to wear a dress at the Super Bowl, man, they were pissed, but it wasn't even real. They were just focusing on it. You get what I'm saying? It it it it it if you have a pet, imagine your pet walks into the room slowly and it looks at you and it dies right in front of you. Makes a whimper right before it dies. Right? Just imagining that probably made some of y'all sad just now. Hey man, it's okay. It's fake. That was just a mental exercise. Nothing happened to your pet. Um he or she is doing fine, right? I just want to show you that you can just imagine something and get pissed. It doesn't even have to be real, right? So, what we need to do is is is is decide what we're going to focus on, right? Um because also when you f okay, whatever you focus on, you're going to see more of it too. Hold that thought. First, I want to show you how to decide what you want to focus on. So, uh with every with everything, right? It it's all perspective. Like pe two people can experience the exact same thing and their perspective when their perspective is different, they'll feel a different way about it. For example, I hear people say they don't like Miami. Even some people who move here, they're like, "Man, I don't like Miami. People only care about money. Everybody's flexing." blah blah blah blah blah. Nobody and nobody works here. Nobody nobody works here. Everybody wants to be an influencer or Only Fans person. And okay, Miami definitely has that for sure. But when they say nobody works here, because they saw that, that's what they're thinking of. They don't even see all the people working here, right? There's people doing construction on all these buildings all around here, right? That that cruise ship over here is full of staff. people are working there. When I go to the Heat game, when I go to the Heat game, it's full of people working, right? The the the people who do the tickets, the the people at the concession stand, the security guards, the players, right? Like the the plane, the coaches on the coaching staff, the water boy, the janitors, right? Mad people are working in Miami. If I go downstairs right now, I'll see a bunch of I see security guards, dormen, uh janitors in my building. They're working. It's like, do you not see all these people working all around you? You think these people only care about [\h__\h] designer clothes and and being rich? No. You you you you think something and that's all you see, even though the other [\h__\h] is there. And then because you focus on it and and you you view that as something negative, you feel negatively about the entire city. But there's way more to Miami than that. Like there's way more to Miami than that. I heard a [\h__\h] I was I was on my boy's yacht. My boy Eric, he has a had a big yacht, right? And you know, he we was out pe out there on he's big yacht. And I heard these girls saying that like nobody works here. Like nobody works in Miami. I'm like, "Bitch, did you not just see the person who just serve who just brought you another water? Did you see you don't see the person driving the [\h__\h] boat? You don't see all this staff on Eric's boat when you pulled up here? Did you not see all the people who were working at the marina? Right. What? But because she see she saw that because she thinks that that's all she saw and that's what she felt about it. You get what I'm saying? And she's only focusing on that thing and that's something that she thinks is negative, right? She's only focusing on that thing. But if you focused on all the other people, if you focused on the people who aren't influencers in Miami, who aren't Only Fans model in Miami, who don't wear the iron clothes, there's way more of them. Like, there's so many more of them than there are, right? But because you only focus on it, but because you focus on the on the [\h__\h] that you think is negative, you have a negative experience. You get what I'm saying? And I'm going go back to what I said earlier. We have there's a part of your brain called the reticular activation system. And its job is to filter out the world and only show you what it feels like is important because there's too many things to see, hear, touch. Like if we if we really noticed everything in our surroundings, we would go crazy because it just it'd be too much. it'd be overstimulating. So, as a survival mechanism, your brain's uh reticular activation system narrows down what you what you see, right? This is why when one of your friends or gets a new car or you get a new car or your parents get a new car, you start seeing that car everywhere, right? You didn't attract it. You're not an ex-Man. You ain't Professor Xavier or Jean Gray. You're not a mutant, right? The cars were already there. You just didn't notice them. The same way these hoes don't notice the all the people working in the buildings they live in. [laughter] You get what I'm saying? Right? Because they focus on one thing. So it's there it causes blindness. So if you Here's the thing. Here's the thing. If you're doing that about negative things in your life, what do you think your if you're focused on negative your RA system is going to do? Your reticular activation, it's going to show you more things to be negative about. If you think the world is falling apart, it's going to show you more. It's going to give you more evidence. If you feel like, yo, man, if you start focusing on the things that are going well in your life, then your your reticular activation system will start causing you to f will show you more of those things and it it becomes a a wheel. Your brain works just like the algorithm on on Instagram or or YouTube, right? You notice you watch watch one video on YouTube about a topic and now it's YouTube starts showing you mad videos about it. Especially if you like it or or or if you engage or comment with that video, you're going to start seeing mad videos like that. I remember I liked I liked one video. [laughter] I remember I liked one video of of um it was like a street fight and it was a good fight, man. Somebody got knocked out and uh I liked it. But the rest of the day, my whole Instagram feed was street fights. [laughter] I was like, "Yo, bro, I didn't like it that much." You've all had that experience. Your brain works that same way. That's how your brain works, right? You start focusing on negative [\h__\h] you're gonna see more works. You start f focusing on positive [\h__\h] you're gonna see more reasons to be positive, right? Your brain has an algorithm just like Instagram or Tik Tok or uh IG, right? So, you need to be very careful what you focus on. And and that's why if you ever come into my crib, man, I have money rugs all over the house. I have uh you know, just things to keep myself my my brain focused on getting money. What is what does that do? If I'm focused on getting money, how's the al how's your brain's algorithm work? It's going to show you more of that. You know what I'm saying? And real quick, just a side note, this is one of the problems with red pill, right? You start focusing on how bad women is, that's all you're going to see. That's all you're going to see. If you start focusing on, oh, all women are gold diggers, all women are like this, all women are dumb, all women are arrogant, then that's all you're going to see. But it's kind of stupid to believe that half the population is one way, right? That's [\h__\h] [laughter] right? Right. That's all you're going to see. But if you start if you if you start saying to yourself, "Hey, man, there's some good women out here. There's smart, educated women out here. There's women who are intelligent." Then your your your algorithm is switching. You'll start seeing more of that. I promise you, you will. Right? But the the the red pills, you you red pill guys, what you're doing is is a you're causing a self-fulfilling prophecy. If all women are out to get you, if all women just want to take advantage of you, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy because that's all you'll see because that's how how you change your algorithms and you you will look you'll accidentally look over the women who could be good. It's just like that. That's how racism works too, right? If you think all black people are lazy and violent, right, then you won't even see, you know, the you won't you won't even see like guys like the CEO of Red Lobster who brought uh Benihana out of uh bankruptcy and then turned and now he's turning Red Lobsters the franchise around and putting up record profits. You won't even see Barack Obama. You won't even see um the black billionaires on the Forbes list, right? You won't even see the hardworking black people who are doing right. Like you won't even see it because your brain has been you programmed your brain don't see the negative. It's like that white and and same thing. It's like if you all all white people are like this. That's all you're going to see. All white people are racist, right? That's then that's all you you're only going to see the racist white people. You know, you got to program your brain so it shows you what you want to see because whatever you whatever you focus on, you're going to feel. That's that's what's more important. Not only will you see these things, you're going to feel. Whatever you focus on, you're going to feel. So change what you focus on. And be very careful about the inputs. Like I won't listen to no sad music. Like I won't listen to sad music cuz whatever you focus on you're going to feel. Like there's this one song it's called uh I Wish by R. Kelly. He's rap singing about his dead homies and it came out before we knew all the [\h__\h] about R. Kelly, right? But if I hear that song today, I might start crying thinking thinking about my dead homies like straight up. Like last time I I heard that song, I I I had to like excuse myself because I cried a little bit because I started focusing on the dead the homies who got murdered and killed, you know? I'm from Chicago, the Southside, right? That's Yeah. And so I I choose not to focus. I don't listen to sad music. I don't listen to songs about breakup. I only listen to songs about achievement and getting money. It's all I want to hear. That's all I want to pay attention to. All right? cuz I'm I want to see more of that in my life. All right. And the third Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. So f focus is the most powerful one. And but another one is I know I said I was going to do this in order but I [\h__\h] up. Right. The third one's the most empowerful one. This one is really powerful too though. Uh hey man, I moved. I only got one video editor now. So these videos ain't gonna have no cuts. It's going to be one take. That's why half the videos are just me yelling on my balcony because I had to move the I moved the other video editor to handling my short form content. All right, but I still want to put a video out every day for you guys. So, here we are. Anyway, but that's that but here's the thing. I This is going to make sense. I'm I'm going to make that make sense in the context when I I had to move one of my video editors to short form. So I could have said, "Oh man, I'm not going to put out any more videos. I'm not going to put be able to do videos every day on YouTube." But then I thought to myself, yo, don't focus on what you can't can do. Focus on what you can't do. Focus on what you can do. What can I do? I can do these balcony r uh rants. people seem to enjoy them. So, boom, I just do these. Right? You'll find ways depending on what you focus on. If I focus, oh, I just can't do it, then that's what I would have saw. But I look for ways to show that I can do it. I hope that makes sense. All right. Um, so the next the next way you can control your state is your environment. your environment, right? And when I say environment, I mean not only your physical location. I don't mean just geographically, your surroundings. I also mean the people you're around. So, but let's focus on your surroundings at first, right? So, man, it's difficult to be sad when I wake up to this every morning, right? It can happen, but it's just it's more difficult. You know, beautiful weather in Miami. It's difficult to be sad under these circumstances, you know? And you you ever notice when your room or your house is messy, right? You clean it up, straighten [\h__\h] up, and you you kind of feel better being in there. Yeah. That's what this that that's that's an example of it. That's a real example. Your environment can affect your emotions in a real way. In a real way. So, if you're feeling sad, maybe go out, switch your environments, even if it's momentarily. Go for a walk. Go get out in nature. go to the [\h__\h] park, you know? Um, get outside or or go to go go go to church, you know, go go to uh a basketball game, right? Do something that changes the environment cuz because every environment has an energy that you can feel and pick up on, right? But what's more important than actually like geographic environment is the environment that is caused by the people you're around. You ever you ever been in a room everything's going great and somebody comes in there all [\h__\h] mad and angry, right? And you notice that the state of everyone else in the room changes the whole vibe. Yeah. That's because emotions are contagious. Emotions are contagious, right? So if you're around people who are negative all the time, it's going to be difficult to not let that seep into your state at least to a certain extent, especially if you're not aware of it, you know. So what I do is instead of avoiding negative people, I mean I will if I have to. Somebody's perpetually ne negative then I just won't be around them. Um but what I think is more powerful is is I set the tone. Like my job is to set everywhere I go, I consider myself the head of state. Meaning I'm going to be the one infecting everyone with my energy. So everywhere I go, if you see me, every everywhere I go, man, like if I go to the gym, I'm saying what's up to the people at the desk, the [\h__\h] janitors, yo, and I I I my and I'm consciously trying to uplift their state a little bit. Like if I go outside, I see the janitor, a janitor. Yo, what's going on, man? Yo, what's what's good? Yo, good morning, man. How you doing? You know, right? Like infecting him with with some positive state. And I can see a state change from him like a you can see it over his body. A a state change. And I go around doing that everywhere. I take charge of state immediately. Like you go to the I'm call Uber. I go to the valet in my building. The [\h__\h] valet drives. Yo, what's going on player? How you doing, man? All right. Good seeing you. All right. you know, like really infecting everybody with positive state everywhere I go. And I don't do it because I'm a nice guy. It's because I don't want whatever state they have to affect me. So, I go in there taking charge. [\h__\h] waiters, waitresses, you know, uh, [\h__\h] Uber drivers, everybody. Everywhere I go, everybody's going to get infected with positive state. I set the tone. So if somebody's negative, they won't be like that around me. I won't allow it. [laughter] And I'm not going to force them to be positive like verbally. Hey man, you got to you better be positive. That wouldn't work. I go I go in there and soon as I see people, man, yo, what's going on, man? Like bring positive energy. Maybe even give a compliment. Man, where you Yo, shoes is Yo, them shoes is dope. What kind of watch is that, man? I love that [\h__\h] You know, whatever it is, compliments. Well, and it's not fake, right? It's not fake. I really want to feel that way. So, I start acting that way. All right. And I want them to feel that way, too. So, I I I'm infecting their state. I'm not letting these [\h__\h] change my state. I'm bringing positivity everywhere I go. I'm uplifting everyone because I want to be the head of state. I'm in charge because I I don't want these [\h__\h] controlling my state. Especially if you're a salesperson, this is very important, man. If you're a salesperson, your main job is state control. Is controlling their state because people don't buy off logic, they buy off emotions, and they justify it with logic. So if you know that, it stands to reason you need to be able to impact the state of other people. You got to learn how to do that. But if you can't control your own state, then there's no way you can control theirs, you know, and it's a positive form of manipulation. Like everywhere I go, I'm raising people's state all the time. All the time. And then I know it becomes a feedback loop because their positivivivity starts to infect me and it becomes like a positive feedback loop and it can be a negative feedback loop too, right? Go up over there and say, "Yo, get the [\h__\h] out of my way." Right? Watch how your negative state infects them and then they're going to they might say something and now your state is is is impacted in a negative way even more as a result and it becomes a negative feedback loop. It could be a positive feedback loop as well. Anyway, that's mo super important. Controlling your state. I'm g leave you this one tip because I I don't I don't have to take medication for my bipolar disorder cuz my my doctor said I didn't have to, right? They said I'm managing imagining it managing it very well. And I noticed that I learned this a long time ago. What I used to do is I used to carry around a notepad and I and I would draw a graph on it on the vertical axis. I would measure one to 10. That was like state like a 10 being a one being a man. A one is like a guy sitting at the edge of his bed with a bottle of Jack Daniels and a revolver trying to decide if he's going to go to work or not. Right? That's one. A 10 is like how Drake felt when the Raptors won the NBA finals, right? That's a 10, right? You don't get those kind of feelings all the time every day, right? What And then on the horizontal axis, I would mark like the hours of the day, like like a 12, 14 hour interval, right? And every two hours, I had a little alarm on my phone. This is before smartphones. So, I kept a little notepad in my pocket and I kept a uh and I had Motor Motorola flip phone or some [\h__\h] like that. This is in the early 2000s. And I I set the alarm to go off every two hours real quick, right? And I would see I would check where my state was on a scale of 1 to 10 and then I would mark it on the gra on on on a graph and then and then at the end you have like a chart. And what I would do is when the chart was um damn I should have started with the story. But when when the chart was when it was low I would mark why it was low like what happened? Who was I around? Like what what what impacted that? And if it was real high I would write what impacted that. And first thing I did was was was work on removing a lot of the lows, whatever they were. Sometimes it was people, sometimes it was um circumstance, sometimes it was different events, you know, and that and I tried to do more of the things as long as they were positive that that brought me at a high thing, right? At a that brought my emotions high. So, you can't do it for something like, oh man, [\h__\h] doing coke, right? You can't do that because that's not a positive thing. You know this traditionally cocaine usage has listen if you self-medicate with cocaine you bound there people have had varying degrees of success with that method anyway but if it was something positive you know and then I would I would work on deliberately work on doing more of the things that kept me positive and less of the things that kept me um negative that that and negative, right? And and I would see the average for the day. And what I would notice was the average started to climb. The average started to climb, right? Because there's two types of state. There's your momentary state and then is your habitual state. Habitual state is your average state like where you are baseline, right? Your momentary state can change at at a moment's notice. This is why when people say, "Man, I just want to be happy. I just want to be happy." I'm like, "Ah, man." You know, every human is going to experience a full range of emotions, right? Sometimes you're gonna be happy, sometimes you're gonna be sad, sometimes you're going to be um confident, sometimes you're gonna be insecure. Like, every human is going to experience a full range of emotions, right? What you I think what they really mean and they just don't articulate is they want their baseline to be happy, right? They want on average they want to be high on the chart, right? Well, what me what gets measured gets managed. And I just noticed that my baseline started to rise uh as a result of doing this. And this is kind of how I came up with the three step the the the the three things and that and studying like a lot of reading a lot of studying on on this on these topics. And I when the iPhone came out eventually there was this app called IMood Journal. They don't pay me to endorse it. They should. It cost like $2 like once nothing. And then now I just have notification to go off. I still use it every two hours and just mark where I am. And if it's really low I mark why. If it's really high I mark why. And then I'll also work on like if it's low one or two hours, I'm like, "All right, I got three things, three levers I can pull to raise it for the next one." So I'll treat it like a game. Okay, [\h__\h] was a four. It's a four right now. What can I do to make it two hours from now I'm at like a six or a seven, right? And I start pulling the levers that I gave you before. Everyone who's done that has had huge success and showed them a lot of insights in their lives. I said I know people who got out of bad relationships because you know the girls was on there too much negative and I noticed one of the main things that caused me to be in a negative mood was lack of money right it's just money won't make you happy but lack of it can definitely make you sad and and honestly you can facilitate a lot of things that can bring momentarily pleasures if you have money and and and that will raise your baseline and there's actually studies that show that having money people with money are actually happier like straight up. So, um the way I started get I I I I was I got really serious about getting money and uh I started I I started making I made my first million as an online trainer. If you want to learn how you can start your online fitness business using AI to help you get more clients, put out more content, grow your following, and train your clients. I got a free ebook show you how to make 5K in the next seven days.