 Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Only 1% of the world can really do that. It's big pro bodybuilders. But like you said, a lot more people can do that now. The peptides. Yeah, with the proper ingredients. What exactly are peptides? From what I understand, they're chains of amino acids. Yeah, so there's a short chain of amino acids. There's a lot of debate out there right now. How safe are they? Obviously, some of them are in stage three clinical trials, depending on what the product is. My personal opinion, I've been in peptide games since 2014, before even people knew what peptides were, bro. I was taking GHRP and GHRP. Then most people are like, what the fuck is that? They don't even know what that is. Everybody's taking pro hormones. Yeah, exactly. That's what I'm saying. I was taking pro hormones and then started on the peptides. That was the first ones that came out. Some of the GHRPs, and they would increase your appetite. But they found on some of those, they would increase your cortisol levels. So they weren't really the best for you. You've got to get the cortisol low. Yeah, exactly. But I was taking those back then. We started doing research on them. So I've been in the game for a while on those, man. Yeah, so it's like, you know, I'm seeing this come like full circle now, and it's getting hit mainstream. And it's crazy, dude. Everybody's gone fucking nuts over these peptides. And it's not good either. I'll tell you that. Oh, really? Some of it can be good, but a lot of it's bad, man. It's good that they're bringing it mainstream. But yeah, I mean, if we're going back to real quick on the, you know, what the peptides are. They're that short chain of amino acids we're getting ahead of ourselves. What people don't understand about them is they're not like steroids or anabolic steroids. Okay. If you're taking testosterone, your body's going to stop making it naturally because your body goes, oh, hey, we're getting plenty from an outside source. Yeah. Via injection or via, you know, sublingual tablet. They got the testosterone tablets you can dissolve in your tongue, all kinds of different shit. Creams, you know, you name it. They're called RDTs, like rapid dissolved tablets. So peptides, no matter what source you're getting it from, if it's a patch, sublingual, capsule, or injection also, which is the most popular, most of those don't have that negative feedback loop. So what that means is when you inject them, all they're doing is they're signalers. They're telling whatever, like whatever peptide organ system it's going to, probably one of the most popular. It's a test of morgan you mentioned. Test of morgan is huge for cutting stomach body fat, building muscle, boosting the metabolism. When you inject that, it's a growth hormone secretagogue. So what that's going to do is just stimulate natural production. So let's say you're optimized. We had your blood work done and your growth hormone levels were at 75%. Well, you can take the test of morgan. We can get you to 100, but it's not going to go above 100. You're going to have that ceiling where you can't go any higher. If we took real growth hormone, you put it as high as you want. You want to take 10, I use real growth hormone. You know, let's say 10 is your top level. Well, you can go to 100 if you want to. You know what I mean? And that's where with, you know, things like testosterone, real growth hormone can have the negative side effects that people freak out about. Oh, enlarged organs, you know, massive hands. That's why I never wanted to take GH. You know, bone growth. Yeah. Because I heard it like side effects make your fucking head big or your face big. You end up with Joe Rogan head. I mean, I'll be honest. You know, I've been taking growth hormone like seriously, good quality stuff for probably four or five years now. Okay. And I'm 39. So like mid 30s because mine started dropping. I took the peptides, but I was like, I want a little more. I'm bodybuilding. Turn it up. You know what I mean? I want to stay leaner. Yeah. So, I mean, you know, I'll take four or five I use a day. No problem. And yeah, I mean, my hands are pretty big, but it's not like. You don't look like a monster. Yeah. Even some of the probiotics you see, they're obviously freaks. People don't look like that, but even them, their hands and their feet. It's not like people think where you've got some sort of disorder. You're like, holy shit. That's none of that. That's all fallacy, bro. I think there's a pro bodybuilder out there right now. That's a lot of guys. There's two dudes that are rushing. He was taking a hundred. I use a day for like he did. Like, I think it was like, I can't quote it. I remember. I just saw it on Instagram. Like six, eight weeks, something like that. Like a cycle. He did. He did a hundred I use or something like that. I mean, crazy. Now again, he packed on a bunch of muscle. Yeah. But like you said, it's been a couple of months since he's done that. It's not like he just, his hands are just magically growing. You know what I mean? Hold up. Let's say, let's say I want to get fucking shredded and I want to build muscle. Like summer's coming. I want to be in the fucking best shape of my goddamn life in summer. What peptides should I take to do that? So there's some different cycles or, you know, protocols we could build. So for me, you know, generally I'm a hard gainer. It's easy for me to get shredded. It's harder for me to put size on. So I know everybody's going to go, oh, red or true chai. Let's take red or true chai. Like everybody loves red. You see these fucking skinny kids taking it. I'm like. Oh yeah. Little fellas. So actually there is a reason for that, but they're taking it for the incorrect reasons. We'll get into that in a minute. But yeah, so someone who is like harder to lose body fat, harder to get shredded. 100%. I would probably personally recommend red or true chai. That's just for shredding, right? That doesn't build muscle, right? Yeah. That's just going to shred you. But again, we're going to do more micro dosing on it. So that's just something that's going to just control the appetite. Because like for me, bro, I'll sit there and eat and eat and eat. I'll wake up at four in the morning, sit there and gorge if it's in the house, eat pancakes and Rice Krispie Treats. So it's a good product for that because it does control your cravings more so. Reda is similar to ozempic, right? In my opinion, completely different drug. Okay. Complete opposite spectrums. Now again, it is a GLP-1, but then it has a GLP-2 and a GLP-3. So it's a GLP-3 agonist. So what makes it so special is the glucagon. That's where people get it wrong on the reda true chai. It's really a builder product. It regenerates your body. I mean, it can help with kidney function, liver, mitochondria. So again, it's not just a fat loss product. It's truly a health product. They just marketed it as a weight loss product because it does suppress the appetite. It does boost the metabolism. Also, it's not just reducing the fat. It's not just like I said, like say a GLP-1. That's just an appetite suppression. It cuts your appetite off. Basically, it makes it where you don't digest your food. So that's why you see the guys and there's huge lawsuits and stuff on certain companies, whatever, for some of these things. Some of the GLP-1s, they just suppress the appetite. But reda actually increases the amount of calories you burn at rest, like by boosting your metabolism. Yeah, so it just boosts metabolism. Yep, it does suppress the appetite some. But what it does, too, is it makes you much more insulin sensitive. So any of the GLPs, yeah, they can make you much more insulin sensitive. So a guy like me as a bodybuilder, if I was to take that, if I don't take too much to suppress my appetite, I can actually eat more good, healthy foods and pack on muscle like you're wanting to do, all while cutting body fat. And also, too, it helps you with sleep, which is going to help you with recovery. So, yeah, so there's a lot more benefits to the GLPs than they put out. It's not just a weight loss. We're trying to get right for summer. We're starting with reda. What else? IGF-1. IGF-1 is a peptide. It's insulin-like growth factor 1 is what they call it. There's an LR3, which is a long version. It stays your system longer. And then there's what we call a DES, which is very short, like minutes in and out of your system, kind of like a growth hormone spike. Okay. But both of those, either one, are great. Those are going to pack on muscle, burn body fat like crazy. That one will help you burn fat and build muscle? It will. And then we couple that with like Tessa Moreland. What does that do? So, I mean, Tessa Moreland, like we said earlier, it literally targets directly on the adipose tissue of the stomach. Come on. So, it targets gut fat. So, these guys, like yourself, they got the spare tire around the waist. They're looking crazy. That's going to help them get that portion down. I take the Tessa Moreland a lot because I have sleep apnea. I don't know. No, sleep apnea creates insulin resistance. Wait a minute. That's because you're so muscular. Yeah. And my neck isn't a huge circumference. I've been to the ENTs. They checked everything out. It's like I'm actually going to get an implant soon. They put it under my pec muscle. Jesus. And it's kind of like a pacemaker. But what it does is while I'm sleeping, all your neck muscles relax because it's not all skeletal. Some of it's smooth. So, it shocks the muscles in the neck all night. So, it keeps your airway open. It's crazy. You don't feel it. You're just a little. Listen. He's just going to electrocute his neck a little bit as he sleeps. Get more rest. I know so many bodybuilders who have sleep apnea. Yeah. And they're all wearing CPAPs. Yeah. The CPAP pushes air into the nasal cavity, into the throat, whichever system you have. And it keeps the airway open so you don't stop breathing. Is that just because you guys got too much muscle? Some of it's that. Some of it's hereditary. I mean, there's small Asian guys who weigh 150 pounds that have sleep apnea. Oh, okay. It depends on the setup of your nasal cavity and your throat and different things. We could talk about all day that it's more ENT realm. Yeah. But a lot of guys who are over 250. How much you weigh? You said? I'm about 250. Yeah. A lot of guys in that 250 range, man. 100%. They got sleep apnea. That's something I noticed. 100%. Because you got to think, the more you weigh, the more pressure you have on your chest, your heart, your lungs. And obviously, too, like you said, even if your neck muscle grows, it's not like your airway is enlarging to support the rest of the body. Yeah. You could do a RETA. We throw in the Tessamorlin. Tessamorlin. Like an IGF-1. IGF-1. What else? Is there anything else we can throw onto this magical stack? Oh, yeah. Now, I like Samorlin for the sleep. Samorlin is one of the, you know, a little bit older, tried and true growth hormone, secretagogue peptides. It does increase the appetite a little bit. So, that's one reason I like it. But for me, more so sleep. I love it. It makes me sleep really well. I take that one at night before bed. The CJC Epimoralin blend is good, too. But it increases my heart rate. A lot of people get the flush feeling and the niacin. So, they don't want to take that one before bed because it kind of increases your heart rate. Yeah, nice. It's more of a morning one. So, the Samorlin at night is really good for sleep. Let's say you were in the clinic. We'd build you a specific protocol with the doctor. We'd go, hey, take these at this time, this time, this time. So, like that. So, IGF-1, probably right before or right after your workout. Yeah. Tessamorlin before. You could do your RETA whatever once a week or you could microdose daily. Tessamorlin once a week or daily? The RETA once a week. Tessamorlin would be pretty much five days a week. Yeah. Before the gym, you could do the IGF after. Tessamorlin before bed. CJC in the morning. A stack like that right there alone would yield some pretty good results. So, the advantage of taking the peptides is that you don't shut down any negative feedback. Exactly. There's no negative feedback loop, which just means you're not shutting your natural production down. So, anytime you stop taking them, you're going to stay up for a while. You might come down a little bit, but you're always going to continue to stay pretty high compared to where you were if it was low. How much would that four stack cost? With medical oversight, you're looking at about $300 a month per peptide. Per peptide. Oh, $1,200 a month. So, we're talking, yeah. Some of y'all's rent. Yeah. So, if you wanted, like, you know, the stack of those four, yeah, you're going to be about $1,200 a month, something like that. But you'll get fucking shredded. Getting nails. Yeah. We don't have any hair. But, yeah. It's going to definitely make the hair grow, boost tons of collagen production. Yeah. Like I said, your sleep's going to get tremendously better than it was. You're going to get more REM sleep. So, recovery. So, anti-aging. So, like I said, the peptides aren't just, obviously, for performance. Yeah. That's what these guys don't understand. Everyone is buying all these peptides more so for performance. Now, again, other than if you're talking about, like, clavicular and some of these guys that are looks-maxing. They've done a little more research, and they're taking the GHKs and the BPCs, because those are the more looks-maxing, beautifying. I know GHK is supposed to be for your skin and nails and shit, but. So, BPC-157 combined with the TB-500. Originally, the basic studies were saying, hey, this is for ligaments and tendon tears, rotator cuff. It'll heal up cuts and wounds. Helps with cortisol damage, gut damage. A lot more. Now, they're going into it's preventative for heart attacks. It can actually help with blood pressure, because it's reducing the inflammation, and it'll reduce inflammation inside the blood vessel walls and arteries and, you know, things like that. So, again, they're having a lot more studies on it now, how it's affecting people with high cholesterol and heart attacks, so it can kind of actually prevent those things, which is pretty awesome. That's fucking amazing. Yeah. So, I mean, I take it every day. Never stop taking it. Just on some health shit. Exactly. So, it's a huge, I mean, that's why they call that one the Wolverine stack. Literally, BBC TV, it's Wolverine stack. You can take that alone, and literally, you're supposed to live forever. It helps you do everything. Guys, thank you so much. Thank you so much, brother. Oh, yeah. Anytime, man. I hope everybody learned a lot, you know. I learned a lot. Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet Meet