Heat. Heat. Oh yeah. We ready to get to the money. We ready to get it popping. You know what it is. This is another episode of that Victory Talk podcast. I am your host, Big Brandon Carter. We got a lot we want to cover today, man. I'm about to break down something that's going to help you make a lot of money. I've been making a lot of money doing this, like ridiculous amount of money. I'm going to break it down for you. You know, I I'm like a connoisseur of money getting strategies and I'm going to break down some more for you today. Let's get it. Yeah. Yeah, you know what it is. It's another episode of that Victory Talk podcast. Episode 212. God damn, man. We've been doing this [\h__\h] for quite some time. Uh, I am your host, Big Brandon Carter, BBC King Keto, the King of Ketosis, Gymnasium Jesus, the Southside Savior. And I'm I'm also Can you tell her to close that door? Oh, you got it. I'm also joined by That's what I said. It's closed. All right. All right. I'm also joined by the best producer in the game. He just ran back to his seat. You know what I'm saying? The homie Nema straight out of I ran. You know what it is? Let's go. Let's go. I got to get like some Iraian music. You know that [\h__\h] they play? They make the snake come out or you know they play the snake come out the basket. He can get that when I introduce you, man. He from the Middle East. Or maybe this the theme song for the Middle East. That's music. There's always a war there. My whole life. My whole life. Like why do people live there? Why don't you leave? That's what I would do. That's what I would do. I would leave. Like when there's a hurricane coming in Miami, it's like, "Oh, there's a hurricane coming." I was like, "Oh, guess it's time to go to Vegas. Just leave." Anyway, um, we also joined by Movia. You know what I'm saying? She going to be monitoring the super chats. She doesn't get to yell and scream or punish me for anything. So, she gets to take out all her Latina frustration on y'all. Cuz you know, Latinas, man, it's in their blood. They love ruining men's lives. But she can't do that with me. So, this is her only outlet. So, if you start talking crazy, she's she's got her finger on the trigger. She can't wait. She can't wait to ruin some men's lives today. You know what I'm saying? Because that's what they do, man. They're mental terrorists. But she's here, too. You know what I'm saying? Shout out to her. You know what I'm saying? Big old titties. Titties. All right. Uh, listen. I got a lot of stuff I want to cover today. I really want to talk to you about making money trading. I've been making a lot of money trading this year. Like [\h__\h] amounts. Oh, can I say [\h__\h] on YouTube? We about to find out. We are about to find out. We about to find out. You know what I'm saying? I've been making me a mentally challenged amount of money, you know, on the spectrum amount of money from trading. I'm going to break down my whole strategy, show you how to do it in this episode. Um, we also got some fitness stuff I want to talk to we about if we get enough chance to do it. Uh, but first first I got a few sponsors. The I got a few sponsors, you know. Uh, the first sponsor is actually a live training. I'm gonna talk about trading today, but I'm doing a live breakdown training, a more in-depth training, me and Young Candlestick, all about trading. Um, the link should be in the description. Oh, all right. You need it. You got it. All right. So, we'll have the link in the description at some point. Um, going to show you all about trading, how to get money trading and all this [\h__\h] Oh, what's happening right now? This is not connected to Oh, all right. There it is. All right. Um, it's going to be me and Young Candle. We gonna be breaking it down for you guys. We'll have the link in the description in a minute. If you're watching this in the future, it'll already be in the description by the time you get there, you know. But in the present, we waiting, man. We waiting, you know, to get it. All right. Um, you need it. All right. Hold on. Let me uh play Play Hold on. Play play something so I can get this to you. Play play the intro. So, the link for the live training we're doing is in the description now. It's in the description now. Shout out to Nema. He went and found it. He went and got it. He enriched the the uh the description with something. He enriched the description with something explosive. The link The link to our training. You think? Yeah, man. You think I was going to let that slide? They know. They They told me They told me you've been They told me y'all been trying to y'all been this close to to having a bomb. I also Okay, they put it. All right. All right. Cool. All right. So, uh All right. Also, the second sponsor. So, make sure you click that link, register for the class. It's going to be dope. I'm going answer all your questions. Me and Young Candles going to do it live. Uh but I'm going to break it down my strategy down a lot today, too. But that class is going to be more in depth than what we have time for. It's going to be hours, but this is only going to be however long this is. Next sponsor is Thot Repellent, the easy to apply spray to keep the hose away. Right? You're going to start making a lot of money from what I'm going to teach you today. And here's the thing. You know, 50 Cent once said on his sophomore album, the massacre on on u a track called Rider Music at exactly 2:30. Exactly 2:30. 50 Cent said, "You hustling backwards if you chasing a [\h__\h] stupid. Chase the money. They come with this [\h__\h] you know. So when I you going to learn how to make a lot of money today and if you join that class, then you you definitely going to learn how to make a lot of money. And there's gonna be a lot of what comes with [\h__\h] come with the [\h__\h] Not all [\h__\h] are good [\h__\h] Some of them are thoughts. And that's why we discovered that's why we developed thought repellent. The easy to apply spray to keep the hoes away. Right. So good women, they'll they'll be like, "Oh man, you smell great. You smell fantastic." But this has been genetically engineered by Iranian scientists. They they enriched this with with That's why. Okay. They I don't want to say nothing's going to be black. All right. They But it's it's it only affects the DNA of thuts, hoes, skanks, skezers, and Jezebels, and hood rats. We added hood rats recently, right? And um they won't be able to get next to you. You're going to need thy repellent. All your super chats go towards development of thy repellent cuz I want y'all to fund it. So y'all going to take some personal responsibility in this. Um we got one hero already contributed to the fund. Let let him be acknowledged. You know what? Let me Timothy. What's he talking about? Timothy says, "Have you taken a course on Casera? Is it worth it?" The only course I've taken on course I I I took uh Google had two AI courses that I took maybe last year. One was about prompt engineering which I thought was cool. Um I thought it was cool. It was helpful. And then uh there's a data analytics course that I took. It was cool. It was cool. Like 50 bucks. No big I mean is it worth 50 bucks? Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Sure. If it's worth you ask me if is it worth 50 bucks? Yeah. for sure. All right. Um, hey guys, y'all want to learn how to get some money trading? If so, let's talk about it. I've been trading for the last five years, trading futures to be specific. And this year, I've been making a lot of money, like a lot more money than I have in the past. And in this video, I'm going to show you my whole trading strategy and show you how you can start making money trading futures. All right? I'm going to give you my whole setup, my breakdown, everything I do. Uh, so you can start getting some of this paper as well. Now, here's why I've been making so much more money. Oh, something to remember. Here's something to take into account. The reason I've been making so much more money this year than I have in the past because in the past I was trading with my own money and that's fine. That's cool. There's no rules. But this year I started trading with something called a prop firm, right? So this is when you can get funded accounts and you can trade with other people's money. Now you have to you have to pay to get a funded account and then you have to pass an evaluation and then once you pass uh trading evaluation you have to make a certain amount of profit then you get to trade with their money right and the cool thing about the proper that I use is called Apex trader funding. The prop firm that I use you can have 20 funded accounts at a time and you can trade with all of them simultaneously. So, let me show you what that looks like. This is uh let's go to this computer. This is Yeah, let's go to Sorry, it's two computers. So, this is a screenshot from this morning. So, I had a trade copier. So, I traded with one account and it copied everything to every other account. Some of the fields were different, right? But I made uh you can see what I made on each account trading this morning. And I've been posting this every day on my Instagram as well. If if you follow me on Instagram, King Keto, you'll see all my trades every morning, right? But I posted this on Instagram. This is about uh how much was this is about 18 grand. This is like $18,000. If you you got to minus the SIM account because I had the SIM account on here, this account. But when you get when you get a funded account on Apex, it says PA. So this is a PA account. And Apex has been paying me too. A lot of people say Apex doesn't pay pay me, right? So if I this is this this is my login to Apex trader funding and you can see that I had AI requested from all my accounts uh they they gave me I I have it blocked out so you don't see my account number for security reasons right but you can see that on the 27th I requested right from each account because they won't let me take the whole thing out right but that's how much I I requested from each account and you can see I got approved, man. So, they they send in this money. This is live me in Apex. I did not get approved last I I I did try to make a request before that. They got denied, right? But this one's these got approved, right? So, total this is about 50 grand that they're paying me. You know what I'm saying? And like since if you see it when I got denied for the payout is the 15th. And then what is it like 12 days later I I made I got 12 days later I requested another payout 50 grand. Right? One one account they denied. I don't feel like going there. But this is real. These these are my PAs PA payments right now. And if you look at you can go to this computer. I'm going to break down my straight my trading strategy and everything. But it it reset after today. So it's not here anymore. What what the trades for today. But again, these are 50k accounts. And you can see that I'm up like net liquidation. This means how much I is in each account now. It's you know basically I'm up like 1,200,300 some of them 1400. Each account is like half a million dollars. I'm up. I'm sorry. This is like a quarter million dollars I'm up right in like a month because these are a new set of PAS. To be clear, I did have a set of uh funded accounts that I blew earlier this year. I made a big mistake, but I'm on point now. Now I'm up like4 million dollars, right? And I kind of want to just this is this is the reason I've been making so much more money trading futures because I just have so much leverage now and I trade with other people's money instead of trading with my own money. And to me it's less risky. So I trade better. Right? When I'm trading with my money it's a little like oh man this is [\h__\h] my money. I had to work for this cash. But it's like I'm trading with their money. I know I feel like I trade better because it's less risk. I hope that makes sense. So I want to break down my whole strategy and how I trade in this video. But first, we got to go over some rules. We have to go out over some rules first. So for me to trade with my strategy, you got to have a large account. So you can get different size accounts with Apex. You can get 2K accounts, 5K accounts, some [\h__\h] 25, 50K accounts. I don't think it's worth it to get anything less than 150, 150k accounts, right? And there's not a code in there now, but we should have. But later what we'll have we'll have a discount code in the link in description if you wanted to if you want to get a discount code on the 150 accounts right but you got to get the 150 accounts and the thing is to go in light with my strategy with my strategy. So I go in one contract. Oh so big account go in with the small with a small denomination. This way, if you're wrong, you can buy yourself out of it. Uh, and I'll explain that later when I go into my strategy. All right. Another thing with my strategy, we're only trading one instrument. Me is NASDAQ futures or NQ. That's it. That's the only thing I'm trading. And the reason you want to trade the same instrument over and over is because you kind of start to learn it. you kind of start to understand how it moves. You get a feel for it after you get a few hundred hours of trading it. It's it's kind of like having sex with a woman. Some of you have had sex with women. Not all of you, but some of you have done it. And you know, you can have sex with one woman one way and it can be the best she's ever had in her life, right? You can do this. You can have you can do the exact same moves with another woman and she thinks it's the worst and they're both right and it's all your fault. You're responsible. That's what it's like. Every instrument moves differently. It has different proclivities and it it behaves differently. So, you want to get to know the instrument well. And you get you can only do that with with hours because those of you who've had sex with a woman and if she let you do it again, right, the more times you the more times you've been with that same woman, you start to learn each other body. Sometimes it gets better, right? Because you learn each other's bodies and you you get to know each other. You know, it's like that with all relationship. Like even my girlfriend like she got a app to track her menstrual cycle and I'm like I don't need the app. It's going to be on the 14th. I just know. I've been with her. We've been together three years and we were friends for two years before that. So I I already know when it's coming up, man. When she gonna start acting crazy, it's going to be the 14th this month. I don't need your app. Just ask me. Chat BBC. And um but it's like that when you trade one instrument over and over again. All right. Now, another thing, another reason why I'm a profitable trader where most people aren't profitable is because I practiced, right? I practiced. So, one of the things I did was when I first started trading, I got over I made I I did over 200 hours of practice trading, simulated trading. So, what I would do is I would download data from different days and I would practice trading different day. I would do it all the time and I track how many hours. I got 200 hours of trading. the strategy I'm gonna show you on the same instrument. If you do that with anything, you're gonna get good, right? You go grab a guitar, 200 hours, you're g you're going to be decent. [\h__\h] anything you do for 200 hours, right? But then if you account for all the years I've been trading, I I've got like I don't know, maybe a thousand hours. I don't know. Like a lot of hours trading, you know? But I made sure I got that 200 hours of practice. Now, the strategy I'm going to show you is is You know, when we edit when we when you edit this, take out the part where I talked about 150 accounts. I'mma say that again because I shouldn't have said it there. All right. Now, the strategy I'm going to show you, my strategy is wildly different than what anyone is teaching on the internet. It's just it's just a totally different strategy. If you've been doing if you've been trading any other way, it might not make sense to you. You might think it's [\h__\h] but I would like you to suspend your disbelief momentarily and just ask yourself, are you more profitable than me? Do you got a quarter million dollar in profit in your [\h__\h] funded account or real life account? If not, maybe, just maybe, you should shut the [\h__\h] up and listen. That's what I would do. That's what I would do, right? But I'm telling you, this is going to be way different than what everyone else is teaching. A lot of I watch other people's trading content and only recently, like I I wasn't watching other people's trading content, even though I'm friends with some people who make it, but I wasn't watching it because I just knew they were doing something so different than me. But recently, I've been watching other people's [\h__\h] and their [\h__\h] seems way more complicated than what I'm teaching, right? It almost make me laugh like, "Yo, this [\h__\h] is nerdy." You know what I'm saying? And this [\h__\h] is nerdy. And I don't know. I I'm not going to say mine is better. Mine is better for me. You might think it's better for you. You might not. You might want to do what someone else is doing, and that's cool. That's totally cool, right? But just approach this with an open mind, okay? So, here's how my strategy works. Let's break it down. I'mma open up my trading computer. Give it a second. Hold on. It's not on the internet. Okay. Give it a second. Okay. You can show it now. Right. So, what I do is I trade on the 15minute chart. It's already That's already wacky. I trade on the 15-inut chart. And the indicators I have I know like a lot of guys don't use indicators. They're using uh ICT strategies. Blah blah blah blah blah. No use indicator. Hey, I like indicators. So, what I have are this is one indicator like the order blocks. That's these red lines. You can ignore that. One of my boys put that on here when I first learned Ninja Trader. It's his proprietary thing, but I I kind of ignore it. So, you can ignore that. That's pretend that's not there. I just didn't take it off cuz I got used to it. Um but I use H the indicators I I have are the uh the 200 EMA, the 50 EMA, the 21 and the and the 21 EMA. All right, those are the main indicators. And my strategy is here's my strategy is if My chart looks a mess, especially compared to these other guys. My strategy is this white line is the 200 EMA. If the price is underneath the 200 m uh EMA, I'm looking for shorts. This is on the 15-minute chart. This only works on the 15-inut chart. Okay, I'm looking for shorts. If it's above the 200 day EMA, I'm looking for longs. That's how I decide the direction. Okay. And what I do is on a 15-minute chart, I wait until price bounces off either one of these trend lines or one of the EMAs. So, for example, okay, okay, let's just leave that there. Off one of these trend lines or one of the EMAs. Now, here's the thing. I go in one contract deep. One contract. And this is very important. I'm only going in I'm only trading one contract initially. And it and it's important you have at least an account size of 150K in your funded account or your evaluation account, right? It's very is very important. And because with my strategy, there's going to be AI'm going to show you some videos of my trades this morning. But there's a stop loss, but only because you kind of need a stop-loss to trade with Apex, but it's like way out of the way. It's like way it's like it's almost like there's no I behave like there's no stop-loss. It's very important because if price goes against me, I will add another contract at the next either trend line that I drew. So I draw these trend lines or EMA, right? The next resistance. So I was going short this morning, right? So if when price went against me, I added another contract and I move my my takeprofit up. So this is the King Keto Scalp. I'll show you what it looks like. Go here. It's Yo, this gonna [\h__\h] with the stop loss. It's just It's the reason it's so large because I really just want it out of the way. Like I'm ignoring it and I'm going for 20 20 ticks for my take profit. So on NQ, this will give you like 200. This will give you like $100 every time you hit your take profit. All right, that's the template. You know what I'm saying? Now, the stop is just there because I think you need a stop for a Apex, but I'm totally ignoring it. I'm totally ignoring because what I'm gonna do is I'm going to buy my way out of it. If it goes against me, I'm going to buy put in another contract at the next either resist either trend line or EMA and I'll go a few deep, right? And if it if I if I end up adding another contract, I move my takeprofit up. Let me show you what that looks like. This was this morning. It's not the best video because I took it with my meta glasses, but let's watch it. All right. So, this is this morning. So, what you can see is this is this is who All right. What you can see is I stack my or my these are B these are these were sell orders, right? These are sell orders and they're stacked up at the EMAs and support and resistance. Now, this is the 15-inut chart. I keep the twominut chart up. I'm just watching. You don't have to do this. This is something I do. I just watch the two minute chart. The two-minut chart is kind of there like uh like just an indicator. I just like to watch it, but I'm kind of ignoring it. It's really I'm trading off the 15-inut chart. Okay. When I when I'm traveling and I don't have two screens, it's only a 15-inute chart. Let me show you what this looks like. So, I go in Here we go. So, this is the open. This is This is the open, right? And you hear Young Candlestick on Discord in the background saying, "What up to people?" Whoa. Breaking down. Watch out. All right. A minute. All right. So, it hit it hit my buy order. Right now, it's going it it Let's watch. Now, it's going against me a little bit. I mean, I hit my sell order. I'm sorry. Hit my sell order. It's going against me and I'm It's going to go look where the take profit is. It's like I'm [\h__\h] ignoring it. It's way off the screen. I mean, sorry. Look where the stop loss is. I'm totally ignoring it. You will never hear no one else say this. How much do you risk per trade? I'll risk it all. I'll risk it all. I don't give a [\h__\h] It's not my money. It's a prop firm right now. I'd have a tight stop if I was trading with my money. But let's keep going. All right. I'm moving my take profit. Okay. So, what happened? It hit my other It hit my the next buy order. You see that just happened? It hit the It hit the I'm sorry. It hit the next sell order. Right. So, what I'm doing now is I'm moving the takeprofit up because I don't need as much to get my $100. Got it. Boom. And then it hit my take profit. Boom. 30 seconds. 30 seconds in the market open. That's how I started my day off. And I took some trades in the pre-market, too, right? But that's how I trade, right? And then when when you do that, it like these other sell orders here, they're going to get erased. As you can see, they just go away. I hope you I hope you see the strate. Yo, this is a this is a unique strategy. You may be thinking, if the price keeps going against you, when do you cut your losses? If you if you're like ignoring the stop-loss, like I behave like there's no stop-loss and basically it's a mental stop-loss. I go off of vibes. I'm really I'm trading off of vibes. Like straight up. I'm legit trading off the vibes because I've been [\h__\h] trading in Q futures. I have hundreds and hundreds of hours on the same instrument with the same strategy. So I I just feel good about what I'm doing. So even if it goes against me, I'll just buy more and then move my take profit, you know. Here's another example of it. This is now this one wasn't as clean as that one. This was after that. This one's a little longer. Pause. Can I make Can I make it full? This one. Okay, cool. Check it out. So what it looks like Oh, sorry. Sorry. I I I keep sports center on when I'm trading. A lot of times I have sports center on. Yeah. But he wants to be able to make sure he has the 53 million. I think this was premarket. So you see I'm I'm in the trade now. It hit I I I it hit my my sell order, right? And you see I have other sell orders stacked up cuz here's the thing. I did. I don't think it's gonna go through all this resistance. It's gonna shoot up past all this resistance at once. That's what it because look look how price moves especially on a 15-minute. No m if it if it goes up or if it goes down. It doesn't go in a straight line, right? It has dips. Boom. Boom. It's always a wave up or down. And I'm riding the wave, [\h__\h] I'm I'm I'm I'm future surfing. I'm future surfing. So check it out. So but the thing is you got to be with the trend with the overall trend. So I'm in this trade. Watch it go against me. And I'm just watching Sports Center. Well, it's not Sports Center. It's a show called Get Up. Then I have other [\h__\h] on my other computer. But I'm chilling. I'm in the negative. I ain't tripping. This trade's going against me. It's looking bad. Oh, now hit Now you see just happened there. It just hit my next It hit my other buy order, right? It hit my my next buy order that I had stacked up, right? So now I'm losing money twice as fast. A lot of y'all [\h__\h] are panic, but I'm way cooler than you. So I'm chilling. But you see, but look, look, it hit it hit. You see where this right at the moving average? That's where I had it. Watch what happens. See how the Lakers aren't focused on getting Okay. Oh, and then I move I moved my take profit up basically half halfway where where it was cuz I don't need as much. All right. Anxious about having LeBron as All right. So now we just chilling. Listen, man. The buyer the the take profit is like off the screen. I'm ignoring the stop loss is like off the screen. I'm ignoring it. All right. See, it's bouncing. I'm just watching ESPN, chilling. I ain't even Okay, now it's profitable, but it ain't hit my It ain't hit my take profit yet. Blah blah blah. Let's see if we can move it up. Speed this up a little bit. A lot of that going on. All right. Still, it's still negative. I've been in this trade for mad long. I'm just chilling. All right, let's see what happens. Oh, now, okay, now look, you can see it better on the two-minute. It's moving down, right? It it shot up, right? It hit two of my buy orders, but now it's coming down to the take profit. And I'm chilling, man. I'm watching ESPN. Sometimes I'm playing guitar while I'm doing this [\h__\h] and then it's about to hit it's about to give me my take profit about to hit my take profit. There you go. Boom. Hit the take profit. You know what I'm saying? And that was like $150 per account, right? So it was $3,000 cuz it happened on 20 accounts. You get what I'm saying? You get what the [\h__\h] I'm saying, [\h__\h] And that's how I do it, man. I mean, it's ballsy, no stop loss, gangster [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? So, what is what else is what does this look like? So, it it only works on a 15-minute chart because a 15-minute chart is just I don't know. It just makes more sense to me. But like, let's let's let's look at this. You can look at this anytime. Oh, I draw trend lines, too, right? And I What's funny, man, is I'll keep I've been drawing trend lines all month, and you can see all I keep them up because they still they still act as support and resistance. They still act as support and resistance. Like, if I go back here, this a this a let's go back to this a trend line I drew [\h__\h] days ago. It's still acting as support and resistance weeks later, right? So, I keep it up. [\h__\h] Until this gets too messy, then I got to start [\h__\h] taking them down, right? But but just just look what happens. Like, look at it. Look at it. It shot down pre-market. Boom. Well, you can't really see what happened cuz I I show It's not, but you can see it bouncing off the support. You can see it bouncing off the support and resistance. You can see it bouncing off the moving average. This is what I do. This is how this is how I trade. And if if I if we go back here, there's a few things I want to show you. Look how many contracts deep I was willing to go in. I was willing to go balls deep. I was willing to go four contracts deep because I didn't think it was going to blast past all this without coming and I would have kept moving my take profit. And I don't think it would have went past all of this without hitting my tank profit early. It could have. It could have. It's just that hasn't been my experience making this money, you know? And you just got to know how to draw the support and resistance. And you know, you got to be ballsy to do that [\h__\h] cuz sometimes I'll be like I'll end up five contracts deep. That means the trade really went against me. But then what happens is the the break even moves up, right? The break even moves. So you I move my takeprofit closer to break even, but to the point because you don't need as much. I just want to get $100 or so each trade. You don't need as much to get it right. It's ballsy. Not no almost nobody trades like this. That's how I do it. I'm just trying to get 20 20 ticks. What's that? Like five points on ENQ. about $100 a trade. Sometimes it's clean, sometimes it's not. Right. So, and I I Y'all can let me know if y'all see anybody else trading like this, but I am the only person I've seen trading like this. And here's the thing, you don't need to have a lot of money. I'm not trading with my money. I have I'm using a proper I'm trading with their money 150k accounts going in with small size and scaling up if it goes against me. So it gives me room to be wrong. You know what I'm saying? It gives me it gives me room to be wrong. All right. Now, there's a few things you should see. There's a few other things I want to say with my strategy that's useful. So, if we go Okay, let me show you something. So this to my trade this is my trading setup. I have the other monitors aren't connected. The only monitor connected to this laptop is this one right here. This is like my other my other computer is is weird. Don't worry about it. But what you need to pay attention to is this. This is a Stream Deck Mini, right? So I have I have hot keys set up on Ninja Trader and this is buy market. So if I see something happens real fast, I need to just buy. Boom. Hit that button. It's like a joystick. Sell market. If I need to go short, boom, I hit this. Then if I need to move to a break even stop, I hit this. I almost never use that [\h__\h] though. But like it's there if I if I feel like, okay, I hit go to break even. And then sometimes I need to just get out of a trade. Boom. Take profit. That's there. So I can hit a button instead of otherwise if you're on Ninja Trade, you got to do this. I gotta move up, move around, and it's it's like cumbersome, man. [\h__\h] that. You know what I'm saying? I just hit the [\h__\h] on I just hit the the stream deck. I set that up. I also have hotkeys set up on my mouse. So, this is the Logitech. What is this? The MXM 3S. So, these buttons you can program. This button here is sell market. This button here is buy market. So I can also do it from my mouse. I like to do it better on a stream deck, but when I'm traveling, it's just I just programmed it. This boom and I can just do it off here, you know? And this is take this is take profit like close a position. You know what I'm saying? So my mouse does it too. I set up the hot keys and that's something that's this that's something you I don't know that's something unique. That's unique. I haven't seen anybody's talk about it. Let me know if other guys are doing it. I don't be watching other traders [\h__\h] Um this is the MXM Yeah. Cool. Yeah, man. And that's basically it's like super simple way of trading, but you got to have nuts. You got to have nuts. Like I see other people saying, "Man, yo, you got to have risk resour. I'm risking this much to get this much." Like, yo, man, I'm risking it all every trade, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? But I It's strategic, you know? It's like, yo, my win rate is just like super high, man. Like, it's like super super [\h__\h] high. like uh I wish I could show I mean you can just look you can look at my I have 150k accounts you can see on my PAS you can see how much I'm up it's right here you know you can see this is real I'm not blah blah blah blah you know I'm covering up the the the numbers for security reasons but you can see these are PAs and I'm up man like I'm up like a [\h__\h] quarter million you know um I'm doing if you want to learn more about this learn how to get funded, how to get a funded account so you don't have to risk your own money. If you want to learn more about my straightening my trading strategy more in depth, if you have questions you want to ask me, then I'm doing a live training next week where I show you exactly how to do it. The link is in the description. I'm going to break down everything. I'm going to go into way more in depth because there's more more to it than what I showed you. I I just showed you as much as I can in in this amount of time. Uh, but I know some of you guys still have questions and if you want to ask me questions, you can do it live on this training. So, uh, we're gonna break everything down. We're gonna ask, uh, we're going to have Q&A. It's going to be a lot of fun. Let's get it, man. I'm going to show you how to get funded and I'm going to show you how to get this money. How to get funded, how to get profitable so you can start making money without risking your own money. That's a beautiful thing cuz I wasn't I'm a better trader when I don't have to use my own money because of the psychological part of it. Like if I'm risking money that I had to work for like I give a [\h__\h] about this money. I'm trading with their money. Yeah, [\h__\h] it. No stop loss. Let's go. You know what I'm saying? Balls balls out. You know, it made it's made me a better trader actually, right? Because I I I'm more free. All right. Uh click the link in description. Sign up for the class. It's gonna be dope. You know what else we got, guys? We got the homie Young Candlestick, man. About to do the market recap. Let's go. What's up, Victtonators? Good to see you guys. What's up, man? I really like that futures overview that you did, Brandon. Really nice. Yeah, you've been crushing it and you are being way too humble, you guys. This man is doing this every single day. It's so I post it on Instagram. They can see it, you know. I'll post it every day. Yeah, it's absolutely amazing. It's on Instagram right now. Yeah, I know, right? So, when we're looking at the markets over here, the S&P 500's dead flat today. So, down 0.03% today. If we zoom into a smaller time frame, you can see that it's super choppy. It's super rangebound. And it's really important to remember that markets are always either ranging or they're trending. So, oh, we're talking we're guys, if you have questions about any particular stock or or investment, uh, leave a super chat and Young Candlestick would char will answer it, man. He's like the best. He's a professional market uh market. What do you call that [\h__\h] Yeah, I'm a professional market technician. A chart. You just pass your series 65. Yeah, I passed the series 65. That's a big deal, man. That's you being doable. That's a big deal. Yeah, that that allows me to actually manage people's funds, which is really cool. The series 65, the CMT designation just means that you're a professional when it comes to forecasting stock prices and building portfolios. All my long-term investments, I run through Greg before I [\h__\h] make the buy or sell. Definitely. It's y'all get this opportunity now if you leave a super chat. All right, let's go. Keep keep saying what you were saying, though. You can be a really really good investor if you pick fundamentally strong stocks and then you also get some good entry points. Like you can build a ton of wealth that way. And the short-term wealth is built like Brandon's showing you guys through futures trading, through day trading. He's developed a really good strategy. And it's great for markets like this where they're rangebound. They're kind of choppy because think about it, if it's super choppy, it means it's not likely going to go up too much and it's not likely going to go down too much. So Brandon has a much higher probability of his take-profit getting hit. So that's the key. So markets super super choppy, super super rangebound. They can't be like this forever though. After periods where markets go sideways for a bit, then they tend to trend whether it be to the upside or to the downside. So, it's easier to trade a trend like today was kind of more was harder because it was it was choppy in the uh before we right when we got off the market tanked, right? But it was choppy when we were on when we were on our live uh when we were in the Discord together. Um that was that was that's harder. Pause. No, definitely because you know it we were talking about there's so many fake outs. It's breaking the high of the day. Breaks the low of the day. Breaks the high of the day. High or low. Higher high. Sharp sell off. Sharp bounce. Sharp sell off. This [\h__\h] was intense, bro. It's absolutely intense. Markets tend to trade like this during the summertime. There's not as many traders at their desks. Institutional traders are going on vacation. So, there's going to be less volume, less trading activity. And you you tend to see the algos, the bots kind of fight each other. This is a battleground right here on the S&P 500 five minute chart. And so when we're looking at this from like a swing trade basis, you know, it's a bit up there. S&P 500 pretty extended. It doesn't mean that it can't go higher. It probably goes sideways to slightly higher into the end of the week. It of course could dump though. So I think the way to swing trade this market is to pick your spots super carefully and pick super strong stocks. So, the last trade setup that I gave you guys, the number one setup last Thursday was Honeywell's top. Remember Honeywell? I I was talking about how I'd like a long over 225 and add over 230. Boom. Stock is up in just one week, 6%. But the thing is, this is a large cap stock. So, that's a big move. And if you trade options or just understand options swing trading, you want to buy call options when they're really, really priced super cheaply and you're expecting a big breakout. So the graph on the right represents a call option on Honeywell. It's the $230 strike price expiring this week. This [\h__\h] went from $10 all the way up to $870. $870 in just one week. So, like people are talking about crypto and like penny stocks and stuff like that. Why not just catch some big breakouts on some large cap stocks? I'm not saying that I traded this or traded this perfectly, but you can turn $10. That's the most that you can lose is $10 and it turned into $870 off of the last week's stock pick. So, you need to look at those relatively strong stocks and not always focus on the market when it comes to swing trading. for day trading that that's where we go with those futures. When we look at some other markets, semiconductors kind of pulling back from their um from their highs over here. I like a dip by on SMH near 265. And just a reminder when I say dip by, that's just what I'm doing. None of this is financial advice. I don't want to tell you guys what to do. Everybody has a different risk tolerance, time horizon. Everybody's got different goals. And so that's Yeah, most of y'all's [\h__\h] Yeah. And you know, most of y'all [\h__\h] man. You ain't ready. You ain't ready to [\h__\h] trade without a stop loss like a real I I still have a lot of work to get on your level of just like having that sort of confidence, that testosterone. Bro, I see you sometimes cuz we So, we trade live in in the Discord, right? If y'all want to trade with us, you join join our Discord and then hit up Greg. Say you want to join Victory Trades and then you can trade with we trade the morning the morning session. So, like all all that [\h__\h] I was doing, the videos I showed you, like I did that live on Discord, you know, and I called out, I showed everybody what I was doing. Uh, but like sometimes even Greg, man, you know, like he's been trading with a stop loss for so long and sometimes we we'll both be in the same trade, but he gets stopped out and I'm like, I just added another contract, homie. It's true. It's true. I just went deeper. It's one thing to analyze the market. It's a whole different ballgame to trade the market. Some people can be really really good traders but terrible analysts and a lot of analysts tend to not be super good traders. That's why we make a good team because you're you're like a really good analyst. You know what I'm saying? And you're a good trader too. You know what I'm saying? But like you're like you you're a trained analyst. Definitely. Definitely. So like it's one of those things where there's so many ways to profit in the market. Find what's working best for you and dig into that. So Brandon's found a strategy that works for him. I'm sure he's going to get some people be like, "What are you trading with?" Oh, people are gonna be mad about it. Like I be in the a the Apex group like I post my wins every day and most like a somebody's like, "Man, there's no way this can work." I'm like, "All right, [\h__\h] nigga." Like, look at it. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like, what do you want me to do? You know what I'm saying? You see it happening. You don't want it to work because it it it it it makes them mad. They're like, "Damn it, it makes them mad." And it goes against what they've been taught. like all these guys telling you, you know, the all the ICT traders. And I'm not I don't got no I got some friends who are ICT traders or smart money tra what do they call it? Smart money [\h__\h] Smart money. Like I got friends who do that. Like guys I'm cool with man but I don't trade like that. Price action [\h__\h] Price action game. Instead trend lines indicators. When you see somebody making good profits like Brandon, instead of getting jealous, be inspired. Like maybe there's some takeaways that you can learn from that, you know? Oh, not stay poor, man. That's cool. I guess. Yeah. You don't have to succeed, you know? That's that's cool. You got to have big balls of steel to trade like the king. It's true. You actually really do. It's non-negotiable. So, when we're looking at semiconductors, my two favorite semiconductors are Nvidia. If you ain't willing to risk your whole account to make $100, you ain't ready for this. You ain't ready for this. There's no chance to make the hundred. But you got to be willing to accept that. You got to be willing. You got to be willing. All right, let's keep going. You should package it up and call it the big ball strategy. Hey yo, all right, let's go. So, Nvidia, I like a dip by near this 146 level for a longer term bounce. So, Nvidia, one of my favorite semiconductor stocks. AVGO, Broadcom, this is one of my favorite semiconductor stocks. I like a dip by near like 254. So, semiconductors are still strong. They're still leading the way. When we look at gold, I'm bullish. Gold. I just need to get an entry point. So, gold starting to find a little bit of support. It might go sideways for a bit, but I like longerterm leap call options on gold. Again, that is not financial advice, but gold, I think that it has another 10, 20, 30% in it this year and potentially another 30% in it next year. Okay, I keep raising my price targets on gold as it's holding bullish structures. Yo, man, I like I like gold. So, like I I I did some swing trading with futures contracts earlier this year and I like Yeah, I did really well. you very very well. So yeah, if you're trading with these funded accounts, you can trade gold. You don't have to trade NASDAQ. If you find that gold is moving a little bit better to your liking, you can always switch. Gold is com everything moves different. Everything moves different. It's like a different It's like it's like I'm telling you, I'm not trying to sound cruel with that example. It's like having it's like making love to a different woman. Like they some one will like something, one will hate that same thing. They're both right and it's your fault. Right. Yeah. You got to learn how you got to learn each one. You got to learn each one. It's like like I can play I can play piano. I I know how to play piano. I also know how to [\h__\h] play guitar. They're different even though it's the same [\h__\h] notes. Oh yeah, definitely. You know what I'm saying? It's kind of like that with different instruments, bro. Like that's Yeah. Different instruments, you know? Exactly. Exactly. So like I I played I played tuba. It's very similar similar with your amisher, but tuba is a little bit different. You got it out. Oh, yeah. I didn't know that. Oh, man. We got to start a band, man. I'll play I'll play lead guitar. Yes. You play tuba? Yes. Nea, you play drums. You want to play drums? Yeah. It's easy, man. It's easy. Just [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. There you go. We got a band together, man. I like it. make that mixtape. Yeah. Two guitar. Vic victory band. Victory band. It's coming. It's coming. That'll that'll help keep me um busy while the futures market, you know, build some setups. We can play a little. Okay. Let's get Let's get serious. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I like gold. It It's looking bullish. We talked about Honeywell. Where are the opportunities? I like trading futures and I also like trading index options. So, I trade Hold on. Hold on. I got you. Keep going. Keep teaching. I got to really do something real quick. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. So, what's cool about index options is that they're cash settled. So, what does that mean? You don't have to worry about it getting assigned. So, if you're not an options geek, don't worry too much about that. But what's cool about this is you don't need a lot of money to get some really good gains on some of these setups. So, right here, this is what's called a rut put butterfly. So, my total risk on this trade was only $60, but $60 can turn into $500 if rut lands in this perfect little range. And I happen to capture that range today. So, most of the time you're just going to lose 60 bucks. But if you can get a feel for where an index may close, if you understand support and resistance, supply and demand, sometimes I will actually converse with AI and it can give me like an estimated range. AI is not perfect. I'd say it's wrong onethird of the time, but it's right about twothirds of the time within a few points. And so when you combine all those factors, you can take really small risk and get those big payouts. It's kind of opposite of Brandon Carter strategy where it's a low, it's a high risk, low reward, but Brandon has a really high probability of hitting his profit. So, you're always going to want to be tweaking your risk-to-reward and your probability of profit. That's what comes out to your expected value in the long run. You can have really um a really bad risk-to-reward ratio, but if you have a high enough probability of profit, it doesn't matter. Conversely, you could I'm just joking. Yeah, exactly. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. When I'm swing trading, I I do have a stop loss. Oh, yeah. I'm trading with my own money. When I got When I'm trading my own money, I got a stop loss. Oh, yeah. Or if you're trading options, you just keep the risk and the amount that you pay for the option. Exactly. You know that that that's a simple I like I like options because he's like, "Hey, I'm I'm gonna risk it all." Yeah. Seriously. And if you're right, you get paid out really really well. It's a great way because otherwise if you're buying just like craploads of stock, that's going to be like super painful. So like let's just pull up like a chart of Coinbase just for example. So, Coinbase back when it IPOed, it hit a high of $429 per share and then dumped to $31 per share, basically losing all of its value, 92%. If you don't have a stop-loss and you're just buying a [\h__\h] ton of shares, that's going to be really, really painful. So, if you're putting in large equity positions, it's very wise to have that hard stop-loss. versus if you're trading options, if you're trading spreads, the amount that you put into the option, you you only need a little bit to go really far. So, you don't need to use a stop-loss on options if you don't um want to, you know, so that's something to consider. Those are the main things I wanted to cover. I really like those S&P and Rut and NDX option trades. I'm waiting for the swing trades to set up. One stock that's kind of catching my eye right now is UNH. It is well beneath fair value and it's starting to break out just a little bit. If UNH can hold this 320 level, I like buying call options, shares, and looking for a move up on UNH up to this 377 level. Okay, so that's a free trade idea over the next six to eight weeks. You got a super you got a super chat and it's from Nav. Guess what he's talking about. I don't even need to look at the super chat. Bitcoin. Listen, M. This guy loves Bitcoin. I'm telling you, no matter what no matter what we're talking about, he's Bitcoin. You know what I'm saying? Like, we we could be we could be talking about pets, animal shelters, Bitcoin, Bitcoin. You know what I'm saying? It doesn't matter, man. Yo, man, that new iPhone's coming out, man. Man, you need to invest in Bitcoin instead. Yeah. You know what I mean? You think Hey, man. You think I should move to Miami? Nah, man. You need some Bitcoin. He loves it. You can't get enough. Every single paycheck all into Bitcoin. Bitcoin, man. It's all in. No stop. Nothing else. I I like that may be right. Hey, I like his conviction. Yeah. You know, I got to admire the conviction. Bitcoin is still in its choppy consolidation range. No breakouts, no breakdowns. Uh that looks like that looks like a bull flag, though. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. So, if we go to like the weekly time frame. Yeah. This is just like a weekly bull flag. So remember a bull flag, you have your impulse wave up. Then you have some consolidation generally in the upper third of this flag pole. And if it starts to exit the flag towards the top side, you can expect a duplicated move, which would put Bitcoin at like 130 to 140K. It hasn't triggered yet, so you kind of have to wait for it. If you want to take a gamble and speculate that it's going to break out, you can buy in the middle of the range. That's fine. I would say Bitcoin shortterm is bearish underneath 100K and it's super bullish above 110K. Yeah. So, this is kind of your range until it leaves it. And yo, one one thing like listen, Nav's not going to like this, but if you want to get some [\h__\h] bigger money, get uh buy calls on the on the on the ETF. Yeah. I bet. I bet. Yeah. Buy calls on the ETF. Yeah, you can make more money, right? Definitely. You can also trade Bitcoin futures. I like trading MBT on like the hourly time frame just doing like three contracts and it moves pretty well. So, MBT futures. If you want to trade that with your funded accounts, you can do that too. So you can trade gold, you can trade Bitcoin, you can trade NASDAQ, S&P, Russell, you can trade natural gas, you can trade oil, you can trade copper, you can trade ultra bonds. There's so many different ways to profit from the market. You just got to find out what works best for you. That's that's what I have to say. For sure. For sure. What I think you got some more. Oh, let's check it out. What do we got? You don't gamble on the greatest asset in the world now. That's funny. Okay, love it, man. Let's check it out. So, Dutch Brothers Bros., good to see you, Marquez. Nice profile picture. All right, so let's check out Bros. Not Super Mario Bros., but Dutch Bros. Last time I broke this down, I said I'd be neutral to bearish. We've gone down and sideways. That's exactly what's happened. Nothing's going on with Dutch Brothers. No, you're talking about a cup and handle setup. I'm just going to clear the drawing set. Um, it could be on the weekly time frame. So, basically, here's kind of like your impulse wave up. There's your cup and this could be like the handle right over here. What I would encourage you to look at is not focus so much on the chart patterns, but focus on the supply and the demand. Right now, nobody's interested in Dutch Brothers. The volume's super low. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] about this stock right now. And that doesn't mean that it's a bad stock. It just means it won't really move very well until the volume starts to come in. And so Dutch Brothers, it it looks bearish underneath 65. It doesn't look all that bullish. Notice that it's relatively weak compared to the S&P. Meaning Dutch Brothers is down while the SPY is flat. That means look for short setups on this stock. I see a lower highs and a flat support on the daily time frame. This is kind of like a descending triangle, but again, there's no volume. So, it might break and then zip back up. It could break, turn it into resistance, and zip back down. So, I would say the cup and handle really only triggers above this $75 per share level. Until then, it just might not do anything. And you want to be participating in stocks that are actually moving, at least on the swing trade side of things. If you're an investor, who cares? you just slowly dollar cost average into it or you buy the stock when it's deeply beneath its fair value and you expect it to form a recovery. So that's my quick take on Dutch Brothers Marquez, right? Uh man, you don't gamble. Define gamble to me when it comes to the stock market there's entry, position sizing, stop-loss, and take profit. I don't know. Everything's a gamble. Everything has an opportunity cost. If Bitcoin goes to zero, I think it's funny, man, because there's there's nothing more speculative than crypto. You know what I'm saying? Like like nobody uses Bitcoin for anything. You know what I'm saying? Like do have you ever exchanged a good and service for for with crypto? Exchange crypto for a good or good or service? I have not. I pay my mortgage in dollars, not Bitcoin. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Nema, you ever exchange crypto for a good and service? Yeah, it's not AI don't think cryptocurrency is a good term because it's like it's not a good currency. I'm not saying you can't make money. [\h__\h] I'll trade anything, man. I'll trade [\h__\h] pigs and I'll trade pigs and goats. You know, it's going to make me some money. You know what I'm saying? But it's like, yeah, but but it's like not a good currency because nobody uses it for anything. Like nobody's buying [\h__\h] in [\h__\h] crypto. Except like except for drugs and humans. Yeah. Like if you want to buy some people, you're probably going to have to use crypto. Seriously. Yeah. Or if you want to buy some some some narcotics, you're going to probably have to use crypto. You know what I'm saying? But um it it it seems to be the preferred it's the preferred currency for criminals worldwide and that's why I haven't been using it. You know what I'm saying? That's why I haven't had a use case for it. You know, I buy all my guns legally through the state of Florida. It's like it's like I'll play devil's advocate a little bit here. So, the biggest allure of crypto is probably because it has a finite supply and it could replace the world reserve currency. I don't see that happening anytime soon though. Um, it is getting widely adopted. Companies are putting Bitcoin on their balance sheet, but I really just trade it like another asset class. I trade it like gold. I trade it like S&P 500. Um, I use it as a measurement for risk on versus risk off. The dollar is really, really weak right now. The dollar is still breaking down, still selling off. It might be getting a bit oversold and it might bounce. But, you know, I I can see both sides. Here's the thing. Here's the thing. Here's the thing. Crypto is nothing, right? It's like it's just like it's it's numbers, digits, right? Ones and zeros, right? It's not backed by anything, right? And people say the same thing about fiat currency, right? Yeah. US dollar. But the US dollar is backed by something. the US military, right? The reason the dollar is the world reserve currency is because the majority of oil is sold in in in dollars. We made that agreement with OPEC st uh uh nations, right? To to exchange dollars, US dollars for for oil or to price it in in dollars, right? And every time somebody tries to every time somebody tries to start selling oil in another currency, boom, bombs is coming through, man. Gaddafi tried to do it. Bombs. He's where he at now. Where they at now? You know what I'm saying? Venezuela tried to do it. They [\h__\h] It ruined their whole goddamn country. You know what I'm saying? Like it ruined their whole [\h__\h] country because America backed the rebels. You know, like their their whole [\h__\h] [\h__\h] fell apart. Iran tried to do it. They lost Nema. They lost. Nemo's like, I don't want to be a part of this [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? And then uh Nema saw the writing on the wall. Oh man, they trying to I got to get out of here. You know what I'm saying? And then um I too. Yeah. You know, it's like you see it. Uh oh, Saddam Hussein tried to do it. Where he at now? Where's he at now? Where is he at now? You know what I'm saying? It's like so US is backed by something. Bullets, bombs, bullets and bombs. You know what I'm saying? And the dollar is backed by the greatest military force in human history. And if anything challenges the do the dollar supremacy, bombs are dropping immediately. Russia tried to do it. Why you Who you think Where you think Ukraine is getting all this [\h__\h] weapons to buy to fight Russia from? What do you think? Yeah, they all say USA on them. You know what I'm saying? They all say USA on them, right? That that's part of it. This is what happens, man. You can't listen. So studying the trends is important. If that ends, if we ever stop bombing countries when they ex stop pricing oil and dollars, I'mma be a big I'mma be as big of a Bitcoin bull as Nav. Wow. But then something Yeah. But until then, you know what I'm saying? Nice. Hey, it too. You can cash flow it in real dollars with the wheel, you know, but all in on Bitcoin. I just feel like Bitcoin is priced in dollars. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Like just think about that. They say it's better than fiat currency, but nothing is priced in Bitcoin. Everything's priced priced in dollars. And until that changes or people start using it as real currency, right? Yeah, I actually go to the grocery store in exchange in Bitcoin some Bitcoin. You know what I'm saying? That [\h__\h] don't happen. It's too volatile. No. Yeah, one minute. One minute you'll be buying something for $100. I'll be like, "Oh, no. Now it's 150. You got to pay up a little bit more." All right. So, back NAV has a Nav has a rebuttal. All right. Here's the rebuttal. Bitcoin is backed by network orders of magnitude larger than the combined size of the clouds of Amazon, Google, and Microsoft combined. It will eat the dollar. Interesting. What's your rebuttal to that, Brandon? I'm all ears. I'd rather have nukes, man. I'd rather have nukes. Yeah, I'd rather have fighter jets. I'd rather have the greatest navy of all times, you know, to back my currency. You know what I'm saying? personally, but that's me. You know what I'm saying? That's me. Because if everyone decides they don't want to [\h__\h] with Bitcoin no more, then what? It's done. It It could start crashing like 50 70 80% or if some crazy legislative news comes out. Bitcoin can have a flash crash. It's extremely volatile. But when countries decide they want to stop [\h__\h] with dollars, bombs drop. M when countries decide they want to stop [\h__\h] with Bitcoin, nothing happens. When they they decide they want to stop [\h__\h] with uh dollars, bombs drop, people die. That's a fact. I'm just saying like that's just the real world. Until that changes, you know, right? I I'm also and now I don't think Bitcoin is a bubble, but I am starting to see more and more non- finance influencers touting and and advocating for Bitcoin, which is totally cool and fine, but generally if you read in the textbooks, when people that are not financial professionals are starting to give out financial advice, it is a bit of a sign of a bubble. I'm not saying that it is or isn't. Bitcoin looks fine to me right now, but just be wary. like be aware of that. Have that in the back of your head. Well, I'll trade I dollar cost average into the into the um I'm not I don't hate it. Like I'm dollar cost averaging into it right now. You know what I'm saying? You know, all fiat currencies have have failed and Yeah. But crypto hasn't been around long enough to fail, right? Like it's like it's just it's like it just Yeah. All nations have failed. If you we would say that, you know what I'm saying? Like you can say that about anything. Nothing lasts forever, man. We got to get Nav on the podcast and then we can host a debate. That'd be really good. Oh, no. I don't have AI don't have a debate. Like you He's not saying nothing wrong. Oh yeah. He's not saying he hasn't said anything incorrect. You also neither have you. It's just It's just like all nations have failed. Yeah. All civilizations have failed and had to start like you could say that about anything. Roman Empire, you know what I'm saying? Roman Empire, jazz, [\h__\h] uh swing dancing. You can say that about anything. You know what I'm saying? So, I don't know if that's a good This is not a strong argument for me. All right. Anyway, man, listen guys. Oh, real quick. I got something. Matism short Tesla. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's check it out. So, if you guys watch the free YouTube video that I put out in the victory unit Discord, I was saying Tesla looks bearish. Yeah, on Sunday night, Tesla looks bearish. I took a little bit of a short yesterday. And look at that gap down. Big ass gap down. Elon and Trump, they're brawling it out right now yet again. And you know, as long as Tesla's underneath this like 320 level, this entire gap is going to be resistance. So this like 31750 that's likely going to be resistance on the first touch. So when you have this gap down like this and we have a long upper wick, a long lower wick, that just tells us there's a lot of indecision at this price point. Sometimes though, if you break the low of the lower wick, you can see lower prices. So tomorrow, if we break above today's high, you can probably see a little bit of a bounce, maybe a two, three, 4% bounce on Tesla. But if we break underneath those lows, Tesla starts to test like 284. Um, longer term, I don't I I think these lows hold on Tesla at 220. But, you know, if with this new bill being passed and that hurts the margins on electric vehicles, that can really really crush Tesla's stock. Like that's the TSM short is looking good. The TSM short's looking good. The TISM short is still looking good. It's wild. It's intense. That's for sure. Come on, man. Yeah. Lower highs, relative weakness. It's a short the bounce or short breakdowns. Um until and unless Tesla can really get above and hold above like 335, then it's really just neutral. Yeah. So, that's the tism short. Yeah. All right, guys. Uh listen, if you guys want to learn more about this, click the link in the description. Join our our free Discord. Hit up Greg. Say you want to join Victory Trades. You can trade futures with us tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning, you know what I'm saying? Hit up Greg. Yeah. Now, or but if you want more information, you know, you want to learn more about the strategy, we're doing a free training next week. The link is in description for that and just how to make money with these with these futures, man. Like, it's I'm so inspired by so much money, man. You're amazing. It's hard to work on other [\h__\h] when you make $18,000 in the morning before, right? It's like that's that's my that's what I'm struggling with getting doing other [\h__\h] I know. You know what I'm saying? But, you know, I'll find a way. You know, I said, you know what? I'll still go do the victory talk today. I guess I'll still work. Even though I made more money this week than most people going to make all year, I'll still [\h__\h] do this free [\h__\h] on on YouTube. No, I love too generous. Hey, man. Let's give Greg a round of applause. Thanks, bro. Yeah, thanks for having me. You don't want to miss it. I'm signing out. Peace. All right. Peace. Uh I think there's a super chat for me. Or is that old? You have a super chat from Leo. $5 for thought repellent. # more money # readyto trade. Hey, that's what I'm talking about. Make sure Leo, make sure you you register for that free training. All right. Uh, what I want to do is I want to teach something that I thought I taught before, but I we I might have, but I might not have. I think I did this [\h__\h] before, but we're gonna do it again. All right. uh or we're going to do it for the first time. It was all in my brain. But I'm going to show you guys how to build muscle. Some extreme ways to build muscle. Let's let's uh let's do it. So, you're ready to put on some muscle, put on some size, ready to stop looking like a punk, ready to stop getting bullied by me. Well, you to do that, you're going to need to put on some muscle, right? This way, women will be excited to mate with you. So, I'm gonna give you some tips on some extreme ways to build on to I'm going give you some tips, extreme ways to build muscle faster than you ever thought possible, right? And I've been a personal trainer for over 26 years. I've trained thousands of people. So, what I'm saying to you is not just some [\h__\h] I made up or some [\h__\h] that just worked for me. This is [\h__\h] that's worked for a lot of people that I've trained, right? This is me from the field. You get what I'm saying? I didn't read this. It's not just some [\h__\h] I read in a book when you were [\h__\h] when you I've been a personal trainer for 26 years. That means while some of y'all were [\h__\h] on yourselves, gooning the Teletubbies, I was training 10 people a day in the gymnasium. That's why they call me gymnasium Jesus. You about to get saved. If you can't watch this, if you can't watch a short video on how to make muscle, if you can't watch it to the end, you don't deserve to get you don't deserve to put on any mask and you deserve to get bullied some more. Shout out to your bullies, right? Let's get into it. So, here's are some things you can do to put here are some extreme ways to build muscle. Now, again, these are extreme ways. So, if any of you are saying some [\h__\h] like that's too much work, I don't want to do that. Right. That's why you a [\h__\h] right there. That's why you a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] People don't like you. But if you Why the [\h__\h] did you click on a video that said extreme ways to build muscle and then say, "Oh, that's too extreme." Why are you here? I don't watch [\h__\h] videos about [\h__\h] I I don't not interested in. I [\h__\h] hate you. Let's get into it. Now, the first thing you need to do to build muscle faster, the first extreme thing you need to Oh, the first extreme thing you need to do to build muscle faster is fullbody workouts, right? I know a lot of people will tell you to do splits, different bro splits, but I've been doing full body workouts for over a decade, maybe longer, right? And before I and I was natural and people were saying that I was on Roy. I was making videos about it, me being on Roy, right? But you got to understand, I'm doing full body workouts and you not. That's one of the reasons. Let's break this down. Let's break this down. Let's say we got two bodybuilders. Bodybuilder A and bodybuilder B. Bodybuilder A does full body workouts. He's a G. All right. So, let's just in bodybuilder bodybuilder B, he's doing a split routine, right? Maybe he's doing one body part a week, right? like chest day, back day, chest day, back day, leg day, shoulder day, and then arm day. Dork. Right, let's just say it is. All right, so the bodybuilder A who's doing the full body workout, let's say he's picking for his chest, right? when he's doing his full body workout, say he's picking two exercises, right? Maybe and it's probably going to be two compound movements, right? Two compound exercises, right? So, he's doing something like maybe he's doing bench press and incline bench press or bench press and dips, whatever, you know, whatever suit you. So, he's doing four sets for his chest and he's doing that. He's doing full body workout. Let's just say he's doing something modest like three full body workouts a week. Right. Right. So, every session he's doing eight sets of chest, right? Right. Four sets uh for each exercise. Right. So that means per week he's getting 24 sets of chest total. He's each week he's getting 24 sets of chest exercises, right? If we spread that out over a year, of course he's going to have like maybe take a week off, rest weeks or whatever, but for simple math that saves us 52 52 weeks, right? Right. 24 sets, 52 weeks. That's going to have him at 1,248 sets per year. All right, keep that number in mind. Let's say this [\h__\h] bodybuilder doing the bro split and he's doing chest once a week. Now, he can do more sets per week. He can do more sets per week. I'm sorry, not more sets. He can do more sets per exercise. I'm He can do more sets per session. So maybe he's doing because he has a whole chest day. Maybe he's doing like a bunch of different exercises total of like 16 sets per session, right? He's doing bench press, incline bench press, cable crossover, flies, all types of [\h__\h] But is it totals like 16 sets because this is just like a chest day. He can only do that like once a week because he's going to kill the muscle, right? Once a week, right? So he only get 16 sets total per week. Remember bodybuilder A who was doing the full body workout, he was getting 24 sets per week. Right now over the course of 52 weeks, he's only getting 16 sets per week. His total sets was 832. But the guy who's doing the full body workouts, he's getting more sets per [\h__\h] year. More sets per year, right? So, here's the thing. You can [\h__\h] around and get more sets if you're doing a full body workout, right? Throughout the course of a year. That adds up. It's almost twice as much work you can get with full body workouts. And here's the thing. Before steroids was invented, every bodybuilder did full body workouts. People didn't start doing full body work. People didn't start doing splits until steroids were invented. Here's why. Cuz after you lift weights, something occurs called protein synthesis. Basically, a fancy way of saying muscle building. Protein synthesis lasts for about 48 hours, right? So, if you're doing chess day, you're missing out on five days of protein synthesis, five days of protein synthesis because it only lasts for for 48 hours. Five, you're missing out on five days of muscle growth. That changed when people started doing steroids. Why? Because steroids, anabolic steroids extend the length of protein synthesis. So they found out that protein synthesis lasts for like way longer when you're on roids. So they're like, "Fuck it. Let's just crush the muscle. Let's kill it." And then they'll get they can get more gains. But they're on roid so they're going to get more gains anyway, right? But before steroids were invented, all bodybuilders did full body workouts. So if you're a natural, it stands a reason you should do what naturals did before steroids were invented. And plus, you'll just get more sets. If we just look at the math, you'll get more sets. And you'll get more sets more fre you'll get more sets more frequently because protein synthesis lasts for 48 hours. So after 48 hours, you you train a muscle. After 48 hours, you do another full body workout. Boom. Now you're consistently in a muscle building stage. Each each muscle is in a muscle building stage consistently. But if you're doing that [\h__\h] if you're doing splits, then you're missing out on a lot of potential muscle growth and you're getting less sets, right? You're getting less sets. But here's another part of it. When you do full body workouts, you should only do compound movements. These are big body movements because compound movements put on the most muscle. So a compound movement would be like compound movement can be classified as like a multi- joint movement. For example, bench press is a compound movement because you can see you're using this joint here and you're using the joint here. Boom. A multi- joint movement, right? Where isolation movement something like be a single joint movement, right? So this is like for it would be cable crossover, right? Because you're only moving here. Single joint movement, you're only moving here, right? That's that's the isolation movement. But it's a fact. It's not debatable. Compound movements are better for putting on size. Everyone knows this. It's not up for debate. All right? If you're doing full body workouts, we're not doing isolation movements except for arms and calves, right? Because it's at the end of the chain, right? So, it's like you can only do one joint to hit to hit bicep and and tricep for the most part. There's there's ways around it, but you can do it for uh bicep, triceps, and calves cuz they're at the end of the chain, right? But for the most part, we're doing all compound movements. So, not only are you getting more sets per year, you're getting better sets when it comes to building muscle because it's all compound movements. If you're doing chest day, you're not doing it all compound movements, right? You're going to be doing a bunch of isolation [\h__\h] as well. And that's okay if you're on roids. But if you're natural, you need to do and you want to get as big as possible, compound movements are your best friend. Full body workouts, compound movements increase, you have increased protein synthesis and you'll get more sets, but you'll get more sets of the kind of exercise that will get you more muscle. This is one of the big reasons people thought I was on steroids for so long because they were doing splits. Everyone else is doing splits because they got it from muscle magazines and [\h__\h] but these muscle magazines were made by and for steroid users. So, I'm I I've been I'm getting way more sets than these [\h__\h] and I'm getting higher quality sets as it pertains to building muscle, right? So, what are some good compound movements for chest? You can Oh, so when you structure your full body workout, you should pick one one or two depending on how much time you have, right? One or two compound movements per body part, except for obviously except for arms and calves, right? You it they're inherently isolation movements. I mean, you can argue that a chin up if done right can focus on can be a compound movement for your arms. And you can argue that a dip if done in a particular way can be a compound movement for your arms. But we're going to keep it simple. All right. So chest compound movements include barbell bench press, dumbbell bench, dumbbell bench press, incline barbell press, incline dumbbell press, dips if you lean forward to focus on chest more, push-ups, [\h__\h] like that. But if you want to build the most muscle, you don't want to [\h__\h] with dumbbells. You want to [\h__\h] with barbells. Barbells will put on more muscle than dumbbells because it's what's called a closed chain movement. So with dumbbells, you can [\h__\h] the arms move independently. You can do whatever you want when you bench pressing, right? You know, they can move all around. But with bar with bar bells, okay, your arms are kind of stationary. Your hands are station. They can't move independently. It's a the chain is closed. That's why it's called a closed chain movement. Closed chain movements will put on more muscle. Look. So, I would focus on barbells. So, bench barbell bench press, incline barbell, bench press. Dips is a closed chain movement as well, right? Uh for back, you got deadlifts. Deadlifts actually work your whole posterior chain. They work your back, um back parts of your legs, right? But it's a good back assessor. pull-ups, chin-ups, bent over barbell rows, tea bar rows, and we can we can throw in cable rows as well. Seated cable rows. Shoulders, you got overhead press. That's really the main one. Overhead press. I do handstand push-ups, freestanding handstand push-ups, but you ain't strong enough for that [\h__\h] right? So, you're just going to do overhead press. Um, if you if you got it like me, you can do handstand push-ups. Legs, of course, we got squats, back squats, front squats. I really believe if you want to put on the most muscle, you should do back squats, but low bar back squats. I don't really have time to get into that. You can search your own difference between high bar and low bar, but low bar will work your posterior chain more effectively. All right? Especially if you're an athlete, low bar, low bar back squats will help you with your performance more more than high bar, right? Um, deadlifts work your legs as well. You can do you you can do lunges. I'm not the biggest fan, right? lunges, leg press, Bulgarian split squats. If you're trying to build that ass, you know what I'm saying? If you want to work the glutes, let's say you trying to work that booty balls, right? Hip thrust is probably the best exercise for that, right? you know, uh, uh, Romanian deadlifts. I mean, uh, sumo deadlifts again, Bulgarian split squats. Uh, for arms, actually, man. So, okay. So, if you want to, this is kind of a cheat. For arms, you can do chin-ups, right? If you want to work your your bicep more, lock out when you do when you go to the bottom of the movement and then pull up. Right? If you want to work your back more, you don't lock out at the top of the movement, right? Because your bicep will too much work, right? So, if I wanted to work my back more doing chin-ups, what I do is I would move my thumbs around here so that my hands are like hooks, right? And and I would not fully extend my biceps. But because I want to work, if I want to do chin-ups in a way that work my biceps more, like it's a compound movement for my biceps, I want to wrap my thumb around and I'm going to fully extend at the bottom and then come up, right? Chin-ups is good for that. Dips, same kind of thing. If I want to work dips more, my my my triceps more, I I won't lean forward as much. And I'll make sure that I'll make sure that I lock out at the top. So like, and really leave it on this one. So I really squeeze my triceps. So you can see it squeezing. Right. Right. If I if I didn't want to if I wanted to do dips and wanted to work my chest more, I would lean forward more and I wouldn't lock out. If that makes sense. All right. So, those will work for you. Uh, a underrated a super underrated tricep exercise is closed grip bench press. So, you get a bench press with the barbell close and get a closed grip and and then push up and make sure you actually extend your arms like lock out lock out to work your triceps more. It's it's actually super underrated. All right. Okay. All right. And you're going to pick one to two exercises depending on how much time you have, right? Depending on your energy levels, right? You're going to do three to four sets depending on your your in this your your how much time you have and your energy levels of each exercise. All right. Pick one or two exercise per body part. Three to four sets per body part. All right. And a new study came out that I read recently that showed that resting three minutes between your sets puts on more muscle than resting one minute. I'm somebody who I always time my sets between exercise. So, if I was trying to put on as much muscle as possible after the set, I would I would go I I hit hit my hit hit the Siri button on my Apple Watch, set three minute timer. All right. Now, to save time, opposing muscle groups, you can superset them. Right. So, one thing you can do is you can do, and I do this a lot. I always super I kind of always super set. So you can do bench press followed by bent over rows, right? Because back and chest are opposing muscle groups, right? There's no opposing muscle groups for shoulders, right? They kind of just on their own. And there's not really you can't really do that with leg. It kind of only works with back and chest and bicep and tricep. So, a lot of times I would do I would do clo I would do closed grip chin-ups locking out for for biceps and then closed grip put close grip bench press, but I super set them. Boom. And then I rest three minutes, right? That say that saves a little bit of time. Now, you can't really do it for legs. I mean, you could if you were isolating you could superset legs if you're isolating hamstrings and quads, but I told your dumb ass not to do isolation movements. So, why the [\h__\h] you even bring that up? Don't make me come over there. That's why you be getting bullied, man. People don't like you. It's not even like, you know what? You still going to get bullied when you put on muscles. People don't like you. All right. This is why. And I say you do three or four full body workouts per week, depending on if you got the time or and or the wherewithal to accomplish that. If you're new, you probably can't do four per week, right? Because you're going to get sore. If you are, if you're more if you've been training longer, you can probably get away with higher volume. I do full body workouts every day. Uh, and I just take rest days when life forces me to, you know, I got too much [\h__\h] going on. I'm not going to be able to get to the gym today. And that happens once or twice a week, right? But I've been training for 26 years. So, it's okay. All right. Now, let's get into the supplements. Let's get into supplements. No, I'm sorry. Let's get into diet. Nothing works without diet. So, here's what I think you should do to build as much muscle as possible, right? You can take your body weight in pounds, multiply that by 20, and that's how much and that's how many calories you should get per day, right? So, if you're 200 lb, that means you need 4,000 calories, right? Some people might be saying, "That's too much. That's extreme." I told your [\h__\h] ass this was going to be extreme. I don't know why you out here acting stupid. I already told your goofy ass we doing extreme [\h__\h] Body weight and pounds times 20. I'm assuming you not fat already. Like if you skinny fat, you need to cut first. If you skinny fat or fat skinny, you need to cut first. So you I'm assuming you're lean already, right? I'm assuming you're already lean. If you're already fat, we don't want you get you're going to get fatter, dummy. Don't do it. All right. body weight in pounds times 20. And you want to get at least one gram of protein per pound of body weight. I know your favorite fitness influencer says you don't need one gram. You can get just uh 08, you know what I'm saying? 08 is all you need to build muscle. Studies show that 08 is all you need. Yes, studies do show that one. Studies do show that 08 is all you need. But those studies were done under perfect conditions by laboratory nerds. We don't live in a [\h__\h] laboratory. We live in a real world, man. We ain't drinking out of beers and test tubes and [\h__\h] or whatever they they had them doing. We live in a real world. And in the real world, the FDA allows food labels to be off by 20%. That could be 20% in any direction. So you get something that says it has 10 grams of protein. It might be 12 grams. It might be eight grams, right? So I rather you get an extra. I rather you get more. I I rather you get one gram of protein per pound of body weight because that will make up for any any mislabelings because the the FDA allows labels to be off by 20%. Right? So, we make up for it by making sure you get 20% more. And if you get too much protein, it's cool. There's no negative ramifications for too much protein, right? So, one gram of protein per pound of body weight. Calories need to be 10. Calories need to be your body weight in pounds times 20. What about fats and carbohydrates? I don't care what you doing with that. I don't care. [\h__\h] tons of carbs or tons of fat, but you need to pick one. You got to do either high fat or high carbs. When you mix fat and carbs, that's when things start to go haywire and your body has different hormonal responses to that, right? Both work. Most important thing is calories and protein. I like low carbs, right? I bulked on keto with the same formula. It's worked out great, right? But a lot of people choose high fat. Most most bodybuilders, pro bodybuilders, I mean, a lot of people do high carbs and low fat. Most bodybuilders do low fat and high carbs. They want to get as big as possible, right? And there might be an advantage to that because you get a a higher insulin response and insulin is anabolic. So, there might be an advantage to that. But, you know, I I do keto for reasons outside of body composition. It helps me with other [\h__\h] you know. Uh I find it beneficial in other ways. I don't do it for look, size, or muscle or even to burn fat. Right? So, if you don't have these other [\h__\h] you want to do, if you don't want to get the other benefits of keto, because keto has benefits outside of body composition, right? If you just want to just do your thing, you know, I don't really care what you do. All right. Now, let's get to the supplements. Oh, no. Before we get to the supplements, we gota talk about sleep. You want to get eight to nine hours of sleep per night, right? Especially if you're natural. If you're natural, you make your testosterone in your sleep. So basically, you without sleep, you won't grow. Your testosterone will drop. And it just has a bunch of negative ramifications. You want to get eight to nine hours of sleep. And you want to get be serious about it. Like serious about that sleep. Like don't [\h__\h] around. All right? If you want to put the most muscle possible, nine hours is probably what you should shoot for to put on as much muscle as possible. All right? Remember I said it was going to be extreme [\h__\h] Right now let's get to the supplements. This is for natural. We're not going so extreme. We could get crazier and start [\h__\h] with some peeds, but we're not going to. We're going to keep it natural for now. I think you should start taking highdose creatine. Right. So recently studies came out saying that so you only need five grams of creatine to put on muscle, right? That's all you need, right? That's true. However, highdose creatine has other benefits, right? Creatine helps. If you take a high dose, it actually helps you with your brain functionality, right? It's actually good for your brain. It can it can help with depression. It can help with cognitive functions and it can really improve mood. Hide those creatine. So, I think you should take I take 10 grams of creatine every day. I've been doing that for like 20 years. People, man, I made a video like 10 years ago saying about 10 grams of creatine and people, man, was so mean to me in the comments. But then [\h__\h] Andrew Huberman comes out saying, "Yeah, I take 10 grams of creatine a day." Nobody says [\h__\h] to him. Nobody says [\h__\h] to them. I think y'all owe me an apology, you know. But anyway, 10 g at least 10 grams. At least 10 grams. I'm telling you. I'm telling you. Like I Just think about it, man. If everybody needs five grams, right? So, my 100 pound girlfriend, she's working out. I should take the same amount as her, right? I shouldn't take the same amount of anything as her. You know what I'm saying? Whatever she has, I should double it. I weigh [\h__\h] twice as much as her. But I I understand how creatine works. How your body absorbs and it starts it builds it up. But highdose creatine has benefits outside of just body composition at least 10 grams. All right. So, but everybody should take creatine. Creatine is safe, effective, all ages. All I remember one of my friends, Ben Picowski. He was a pro bodybuilder. He came in he he was um he was in the Mr. Olympia. He never won Mr. Olympia, but he he placed and he did he did well. He didn't get embarrassed, right? He did a good job, right? I well when when my son was about to be born, Ben already had some kids and I was talking to him. I was just joking. I said, "Man, so what age? So how soon should I put him on creatine?" I said that [\h__\h] as a joke. He said, "Day one. Day one. Get a baby creatine." But he was dead serious because it really helps with your brain. I'm telling you, look up the studies. It's Everyone should take creatine. Even if you don't work out, you should be taking creatine. It's really good for you. All right, let's get into some more supplements. Another supplement that I find super helpful that you might find super helpful is Seialis. Seialis, there are tons of studies. We'll put them on the screen later. There's tons of studies that show that seialis actually helps build muscle, right? Because it's a vasod diilator, meaning it increases blood flow. So, it helps you get a bigger pump because that's what an erection is. It's that pump, right? But there's tons of actual peer-reviewed scientific studies showing that seialis builds muscle, right? Now, a lot of people, somebody's thinking of typing right now, yo man, but I don't want to be bricked up in the gym. No, no, no. It doesn't work like that. You still have to be aroused to get an erection. Even if you take the it doesn't just make your your [\h__\h] hard, right? It doesn't work like that. You still have to be aroused, right? My girl wrote, "Let's aroused by guys in their gym." Well, if you're in Miami, there's a lot of girls in the gym, too. You've been You've been in the gym. You seen it. You be in the gym, girl. I be getting the rouse. by you. Anyway, um we barely go at the same time. We was there yesterday together, but not today. I didn't work out today. Exactly. Turn your mic off. All right. My room was right. Yo yo yo yo my you was right. All right. All right. Back. Let's get serious. Yo, creatine helps build muscle. All right. Creatine I mean I'm sorry. Seialis helps build muscle. And side benefit. If you don't have erectile infuction I'm sorry. If you don't have erectile dysfunction and you take Seialis, now you like a sexual superhero. You know what I'm saying? Now you taking performance enhancing it. You know what I'm saying? It's like take it. It's the next level. It's actually the next level. If you don't need it and you take it, it's kind of like if you don't have if you don't have ADD or or or autism and you take Adderall, you know how you get a bunch of work done is like super focus. It's like that for your penis. Socialis, right? If you put all this together, man, do it for 90 days. I promise you, you put on more muscle than you have in your whole life. All right? And listen, let's say you already got a good amount of muscle, right? And you want to start training people. Well, I got a free ebook for you called the Ten Commandments of online training. And this way, you can help other people put on muscle, right? And get paid to do it, right? I made my first million as an online trainer. And I've taught over 15,000 people how to grow their online fitness business. I can show YouTube for free. Click that link in the description to download the ebook. All right. All right. Do we got another super chat? Because we got to get out of here. We do. We have Nav. He says, "How many exercises do you do per session?" Oh, yeah. Nav, I answered that, man. So, it's basically um Oh, total. I don't know. I have to add it up, but I pick one or two exercises per It is It varies, right? One or two exercises per body part, you know? All right. Someone I see someone asked, "Can you get Sealis without a prescription?" Uh, not that I'm aware of, man. But you can just get [\h__\h] blue chew or some [\h__\h] like that. You know what I'm saying? Like they they'll just give it to you, man. They just give it to you. You know, hymns, they'll just give that they will give that [\h__\h] to you. I promise you. Say whatever you want. All right. Hey, look guys, this has been another episode of Victory Talk. If you want to learn how to make money trading the way I've been trading, I made 18 grand today, man. You believe it? You know, I post Listen, we're doing a free training, me and Young Candlestick, showing you how to make money trading futures without using your own money. How to get funded with how to get funded with a prop firm. It's dope. Click the link in the description, register for the class. We're doing it next week, Wednesday. All right. Holl at y'all.