 naringin. Bituxal. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. Bitux. It's good for your hair as well, too, right? Exactly. Good for the hair. I mean, there's so many benefits on the GHK. That's why I sell that GHK, that tri-blend, because it goes crazy. Okay, so GHK. I like the epithelon, because it'll reverse the aging on how you look. What, collagen? It's, like you said, it's targeting more on the DNA, mRNA, and all that. You know, if you got real scientific, where it's actually re-lengthening the telomeres. So, you know, you're going to have a full effect, internal and external, on aging. Versus just, like, where GHK, yeah, it can help internally some. But, like I said, it's definitely more of these looks-maxing ways, where when you combine, like, in my opinion, GHK, epithelon, and amoxy, it's like, dude, you're hitting it on the cellular level. What's amoxy now? What it does is it helps you replicate your mitochondria, which makes more ATP production, which is going to give you hella energy. And two, it's going to be very regenerative for your entire body. So it's going to kick you back to those younger years. So we got those three. I saw one that makes people's skin darker, like, almost like they got a tan. I saw this one. Yeah, so you're- This white kid, he was injecting- MT1, MT-2, this is a Milana tan. This kid was looking like a slave. They got Milana tan 1, Milana tan 2. Most of the ones people sell now are MT-2 because it's much faster and more effective. And that gives you a tan. It makes you darker. Well, the MT-2 does multiple things. So MT-2 actually is a huge libido enhancer, too. Oh. So it acts like a Cialis or a Viagra. Okay. But then also it produces a lot more melanin, which is what tanned skin. Oh, it makes me melancholy. So it's almost like, you know, you're a light-skinned, like you said, black guy. You just produce and have more melanin. Yeah. So like, let's say I'm a white guy and I'm kind of tan now, but if I don't get in the sun for three months, I lighten up. Same with you. Your body just doesn't have as much melanin at that time. So sometimes, too, when you get out in the sun, the UV rays hit you. Sometimes you burn if you stay too long. But once you get exposed to the sun, your body's going to kick on and go, oh, hey, we need to make more melanin so it's UV protective so we don't get sunburned. You know what I mean? Oh. Every time on vacation, it seems like the white people forget that they're alerted to sun. And they end up looking like lobsters. Yeah. Because they don't have any melanin, bro. Yeah. So could they take this before vacation to prevent sunburn? Exactly. If you're like a white person. Yeah. They could take it. And even like sitting here, if I take it and I stayed in the condo for the next week, but I took a shot every day, my body would start making a lot more melanin like I was out in the sun. And then when I do go out in the sun, it won't burn. It would be protective. And I'm already darker because that's where you're getting the dark color. It's just more melanin production. That's all it is. Melanin is just what, you know, think about taking like a black Sharpie and just putting dots all over you. That's your melanin. The more you dot yourself, eventually your whole arm's black covered in marker, right? Yeah. It's the same thing. You're just, your body starts making more melanin. And that's what tans. If I was a white, I would do that before every vacation because that shit looked like it hurt. Me and my girl, we was in Mexico at this resort. And I was like, yo, do they not know they can't be in the sun like this? Oh, dude, they get as red as your damn jacket. Yeah. And I'm like, yo, but if they take this, they won't burn. Like, yo. Listen, whites. I'm not a doctor. But if I was you. I would inject this stuff before I went over again. Injecting it to your kids before they get it. So your kids don't burn. There's the issue. People don't want to inject something. You don't want to inject Chinese research chemicals in your kids. Yeah. They're not that gung ho. You know what I mean? You know what? That's not medical advice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, guys, all this is for educational purposes. Educational purposes. Don't do that. Don't do that. This is stuff that, you know, I personally have done, but we are not recommending it. No, no. Matter of fact, don't do it. If you're a YouTube moderator, I'm telling them not to do it. Anything that produces collagen or gets rid of wrinkles. I mean, all the growth hormone secretagogues are going to do that. Oh, really? From Samorlin, Tessa Morlin, CJC, Epimorlin, all those, even IGF-1. Really? Are going to still upregulate your growth hormone. So all those are going to produce better sleep, more collagen production, hair, skin, and nails. It's just going to get, you know, more firm. Because, you know, like women, they'll, like, stab their face micro-leading to produce collagen. But could they take a peptide instead to have a similar result? Exactly. Yeah. Would it be really similar results? A lot of the women that don't want muscle building and a bunch of fat burning, the CJC, Epimorlin is a great option for them. I've seen a lot of fat loss off of it. Really? The Epimorlin. Yeah. And then if you're doing the Tessa Morlin, Epimorlin paired with the CJC or the Tessa Morlin, you get much more synergistic effects. Lately, I've been taking Bucked Up. They have one called Woke AF. But, like, I'm friends with those guys. That's a good one. I used to take that one all the time. Yeah, I know those guys. But you just got to be careful with the caffeine, man. I'll be honest. I don't do caffeine at all anymore. Oh, man. You are not the same. Here's the hack that's healthier. Because here's the thing. Most everything, like, that's stimulatory is going to constrict the blood vessels. Which, when you go in the gym, if you want to put muscle on, that's counterintuitive, right? That's why you got to stack it with the Cialis, man. Yeah. Yeah. I do do that, 100%. Yeah. But what I've been on kick lately. Now, again, there's a lot of studies. Like you said, smoking, vaping, all the nicotine. They've made nicotine seem kind of bad. But if you have nicotine standalone, it's actually good for you. Bunch of benefits for dementia. Oh, yeah. Cognitabilities. So what I do is I get the, it's called Lucy. It's a brand name. It's a gum. But it doesn't taste like shit. It's not like Nicorette at Walmart. This stuff actually has flavors. You know, I got like the purple one. I don't know what flavor. It's pretty good. And it's like stimulant. It's like a four milligram. I'll pop that in on the way to the gym, chew that. By the time I get to the gym, I'm ready to rock and roll. But to me, it doesn't keep me up all night like the caffeine. If I take two, three hundred milligrams of caffeine, dude, even at, you know, 12 o'clock, bro, you can forget going to sleep. I'm crunching shit on my computer the next three days. We're a little different in that regard. I could probably do a line of coke and go to sleep if I wanted to. And you know why? Your adrenal gland is fucking shot. That's why. You need cortisol support. Yeah, your adrenals are toast. Because I'll tell you, I can take a hundred milligrams of caffeine and I'm geeked out of my mind for four or five hours. Yeah, man. So your adrenals are toast. I've been abusing caffeine since I was high school. Dude, everybody does. That's probably one of the number one drugs. It's not probably. It's a hundred percent. It's the number one consumed drug on earth. You know? Yeah. I feel like alcohol and caffeine are probably. Caffeine beats alcohol. It does. Like by a long shot. Oh, my buddy drinks like eight energy drinks today. I'm like eight. I'm like, how much caffeine is each one? Oh, they're like bucked up. The, the, or come on. I'm like, there's 300. I'm like, I'm like, you're taking 2,400 milligrams of caffeine in a fucking day. You know, when you live over here, when you live over here, you've been in Starbucks over here. You know what I'm saying? By the world. They're like, can I get a quadruple shot espresso? And I'm like, or you like me, man. I'm like, yo, listen, listen, here's what I want. I want you to give me an iced coffee with four shots of espresso in the protein foam and a little bit of heavy cream. That shit tastes good, though. That shit tastes good. I love the way coffee tastes, but I had to get the decaf, too. If you were me and you wanted to get ready for the summer, what peptides would you take? Remember, I ain't noticed nothing on Tesla Moreland. GHK broke me out. I ain't noticed IGF-1 at all, either. It's a tough question, because like I said, I mean, you don't want to respond. But yeah, I think, I think just going off that, not seeing blood work, not having any kind of intake, paperwork, anything to go on, just us as friends. I think the Samorlan, it's like the most well-rounded peptide out there. It's got a lot of research, been out for a long time. There's not really negative side effects. It's going to boost the metabolism. It's going to make you a little bit hungrier. Not too much, but just it's going to increase it where you're like, oh, I want to eat a little more blueberries today. Yo, because sometimes I'm not hungry. Exactly. I'm not hungry. Yeah. That's going to boost the metabolism a little bit more. So it's going to burn more body fat, but it's going to make you want to eat more. Nice. And then, yeah, you said you didn't have any effect from even the IGF. Did you do the CJC Epimorlan ever? I don't even know what that is. That's what I'm saying. I think those two, I will put you on the Samorlan, and the CJC Epimorlan would be my personal recommendation, since we know some of the other ones that you got from the other doctors didn't work. I think, from my experience, that would work the best. I think you would see some good results from those. What about the BP? And then, yeah, obviously, yeah. Just for longevity. Yeah, longevity, the gut health. That's not for performance. Well, it still would be, because you've got to think, you take so much caffeine, and your adrenal glands burn out, and you're vasoconstricted all the time, and your vessels, you would put on a little more muscle, even just doing the BPC, because it's going to help that adrenal gland and sleep and recovery. The Cialis vasodilates. Yeah, it does. But think if you could get 20 to 30% more dilation you're getting now, bro. You know what I mean? Even better. Listen, I'm not. That's a bridge too far for me to stop caffeine. Well, no. What I'm saying is don't stop caffeine. Yeah, okay, okay. Like all these look smacksers and guys do. Bro, keep taking your caffeine. Just throw in the BPC on top of it to get that 20, 30% is what I mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Kind of like, you see what I'm saying? So you can still use that and submit it. Yeah, I'm not in by any means just saying you've got to stop caffeine, because bro, you're not going to do that. We've tried that in our clinic. We'll tell guys, I'm like, look, I understand. You're not going to quit smoking. You're not going to quit vaping. Look, let's just build around that and make you as healthy as you can, and keep one or two vices. Yes, because I'm not going to get rid of all my vices. Yeah. You know what I mean? There's no way possible. I've got certain things I do I'll never get rid of. Yeah. It just, it's built into me. I don't, I don't, you know, drugs, I don't drink alcohol, but I love caffeine and nicotine. At our clinic, we are in Alabama, so we treat autoimmune, we treat cancer, we do stem cells, but guys, we have people that fly from California to come see us. Yeah. To do stem cells, because you can fly in, you can get your treatment the next day, fly back home. Yeah. Cancer treatments, you can do different things. Yeah. We do telemedicine, we can ship medications directly to your front door, depending on what your program is, after lab work. So yeah, you can be anywhere in the US, we can send you our quest kit, you can actually draw labs at a quest location closest to you, and then literally, you know, we'll call you, we'll go over everything via telemedicine, Zoom, meetings, etc. Our doctors will tell you exactly what you need, you get started, everything comes from the compounding pharmacies right to your door. Fantastic. Yeah. One of our websites is vitalforceal.com. Guys, thank you so much, thank you so much, brother. Oh yeah, anytime, man. I hope everybody learned a lot. You know. I learned a lot. Come see us at the clinic. See.. You