Yo, what's going on? It's your boy Big Brandon Carter and I am here with a special guest. Well, I'm his guest. Lewis House, man. Great to meet you, man. Great, man. No, honestly, man. I've been a fan for a long time, man. I've been a fan like uh when I work out, people ask me what what I listen to. Uh I don't listen to music cuz I used to be a musician and it's kind of distracting. So, I listen to podcasts and you uh Tim Ferrris, uh a bunch of others, you know, the podcast I listen to all the time, man. I started with yours cuz I think you had one. Pretty sure you had one before Tim or a lot one before Tim. I helped him launch his podcast actually. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now he's crushing it. So, yeah, man. No, man. But the school of greatness is still like my go-to one, you know, there, you know. Thanks, man. I appreciate it. Appreciate it, man. No, no, honestly. So, I just picked up Well, not just picked up, but I I read the actual book School of Greatness, and I was wondering if you could tell the first uh chapter, I don't know, it was uh you had you had eight principles. Yep. The one was creating a vision. Vision, man. Yeah. Can you talk to more about that, man? Yeah. Even, you know, just before we got on here, we were talking about, you know, what do you want for your business? And you were telling me your vision for the next four or five years. I think um it's really hard to achieve something if we don't know what it is. Yeah. It's very simple. And did you play sports ever? Yeah. Yeah. What was your main sport? Basketball. I was never really good, but uh I was there, you know. So, there's that. You were there. uh you know in a basketball when I played on basketball teams growing up when I was a big basketball guy our coach at the beginning of every season he would sit us in the locker room he had a had a white board or a chalkboard and he would say what is our goal for the season the great coaches would do this the not so great great coaches they wouldn't have us set goals in the beginning of the season so anytime we're doing anything with our health or fitness or business relationships whatever we need to have some type of goal some type of vision and of where we want to go it's so simple And it seems easy, but a lot of people are just like probably working out to work out with no goals, no vision, no tracking system. So they can't tell where how well they're doing. So the first thing is the most powerful leaders in the world have a clear vision of what they want in their life. Simple. So the first thing you got to figure out what it is you want. Figure out what it is you want. Some people say, "Well, I'm not sure what I want. I don't know what I'm passionate about." I'd say that's okay. Lead with your curiosity. What are you curious about right now in your life? Maybe you have no clue, but like what's something that's like fun or curious for you? Oh, I like working out or I like uh reading. I like writing. I like surfing. Whatever. Like lead into your curiosity and then figure out a way to create a vision around the thing that brings you the most joy. That's what I think. Cool, man. Vision is the first thing though towards getting anything done. Vision. Then once you had that now your second principle was uh it was don't tell me Louis it was it was a turn adversity yes into into advantage advantage. Yeah. Yeah. You know the bigger the dream the bigger the vision the more challenges are going to come our way. So we get to learn how to use any adversity we've had in our life and to make it our story as opposed to our struggle. Okay. Yeah. You know, there's a lot of things that have happened to you and have happened for and to us that could hold us back. And we could say, you know what, this happened to me when I was growing up or I had this injury or I had this and it could hold us back or it can move us forward. We get to choose in every single moment how we want to use our adversity, right? Either in moving us forward or holding us back. So, learn to embrace the adversity. Every great leader has continually gone through great adversity and they embrace it and they use this as their opportunity to help them get to where they want to be, not to hold them back. So, embrace the adversity when things get challenging and when the struggle, lean into that. Like, don't be afraid of it and be resentful of it. Say, "How can I use this and grow from it?" No, I I love that, man. I always tell my guys, man, it's like uh like when you're going through something, it's it's going to make you stronger. the same way because when you lift weights, what it breaks down the muscle freaking adversity every day, man. Yeah. But if you um you know just get depressed and don't lean into it, you're not going to grow. Yeah. And it's like these calluses, right? It's from Yeah, man. from hurting from it hurt at first, but now like this skin is actually stronger. I feel like we're our our uh mentally we're the same way. And that's what that's what I got from that chapter of the book as well. You sure? Then we then it was the championship mindset. That's it, man. You got the whole thing memorized, man. Oh, man. You know, it's great. I like it. I like it, man. Yeah. Champions mindset. So, um, you know, when we go from my experience, I went through a lot of adversity and I realized that I need to develop a stronger mind, a stronger mind and a belief about myself. And that if I want if I have a vision and I want to achieve it, I've got to believe in myself. And I lacked a lot of confidence early on. I lacked I had a lot of insecurities. I wasn't that good in school. You know, I couldn't even talk to girls until I was like 17. I was afraid a lot. Yeah. I was around 17, too. That's another story of another. Exactly. But I was I was afraid because of I was afraid of looking bad or afraid of failing or afraid of not having friends or whatever it was. I was afraid afraid of getting hurt, everything. And I studied what champions did. And you know, when at the end of a the Super Bowl or a big game, when you watch the the MVP of the game get interviewed, usually the the reporter's like, you know, how do you feel? how'd you do it? And there's usually a couple of responses. There's the Muhammad Ali response, right? Or the Mayweather response, which is, I knew I was going to win before this happened. I'm the greatest. Like, no one can stop me. I'm the best. I know I'm the best. Or there's the the other response, which is the, you know, first I want to give all the praise and and glory to God or Jesus or whatever they want to give it to, right? Um and and my teammates and, you know, without them, I am nothing. You know, it's like they either way there's something in common, a strong belief. There's such a strong belief that they are going to achieve that they have the strength, the power, the ability whether it's because they did it or someone else did it with them or for them. So we get to develop that if we don't believe so confidently in ourselves, it's really hard to get through the struggle and the challenges which are necessary for you to go through in order to get to the vision. Got it. It's a it it has to happen for you to get there. There's not going to be an easy path every single day. There's going to be struggle with any dream. If you don't want to have struggle, then don't have any dreams. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? I heard Les Brown say uh you can't stroll to your goal. You can't especially if it's a a big goal that is inspiring in any way. Inspiration doesn't come from people doing easy things. It comes from people doing challenging things and overcoming them. Exactly. We don't make movies about they don't we don't go watch movies about the guys who just uh yeah showed up and everything worked out great today man. Yeah that wouldn't be that wouldn't be easy compelling story you know. Exactly. So uh develop the champions mindset develop skills master skills so that you can feel confident about what you're capable of creating. So you know become an expert at working out. You know when you can lift a certain amount of weight you feel confident when you go in the weight room. when you can shoot uh nine out of ten free throws, you feel confident when you get fouled on the line as opposed to I'm not sure if I'm gonna make this shot. Do the repetition, do the reps you need to to develop a tool belt of incredible skills that you can just whip out at any moment. Just whip out skill, skill, skill that man's built. Yeah. Master things in life. Whatever you love, you're curious about, master it to a certain level where you're better than most people. Yeah. Yeah. I always say that compet confidence comes from confidence. Like if you're my kids always ask me, you know, how do I become more confident? I get these emails and I'm like, man, well, if you get real good at something, you'll see pretty confident in that area. Yeah. If you sit around and just complain, you're not going to be confident. I feel like there's a difference between that and like self-love. I I feel like people ask you a question. I don't want you're up to, but it's a hypothesis I have, you know, and since I'm in greatness school right now, I figure I ask a greatness teacher. Uh well, There's a difference. I think this is my my brain, right? I think there's a difference between confidence and and like self-love, right? I feel like two different like like versus my grandma. She loves herself and we all love her, right? But we but she's 97. Like we don't even leave her alone. We have so little confidence in her ability to like take care of herself, right? We never leave her alone. That doesn't mean we don't love her. Or like a baby, you know, like you everyone loves babies and you know, but you have confidence in a baby. Of course not. Right. Like like I feel like they're two different things. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Well, I mean self- loveve also I think that's something that a lot of us don't do enough of is self- loveve care. It's taking care of ourselves, our health, our our mind, our emotions. Loving oursel I think is an important step in being able to give to other people. Yeah. You know, life is the last chapter we talk about point of greatness is being in service. And uh if we don't if we're not in service to ourselves, we can't give that to other people. If we don't love ourselves, how are we supposed to love other people? Right? If we aren't healthy, how are we supposed to inspire others to be healthy? So, we can only give what we have and what we create for ourselves. So, we get to do things every single day or week or month to to fill our cup up to love ourselves. Whether that's massage or relax or a break or treating yourself with something, I think it's important to take care of self so we can take care of others. I like that. I like that. No. No. Yeah. cuz I I which brings us to the next one, hustle, right? Develop hustle. I in my in my youth I was so about well I'm still whatever I'm uh I was so much about hustle that like for instance yesterday I was getting ready for this trip to come see you in LA and I forgot to eat right but I feel like the hustle how do you balance that cuz I think you said hustle in the book you said hustle was my number one reason why I'm where I'm yeah this that was the my original title of the book was called hustle because I feel like that's what everything encompasses is like yo huh was that Exactly. I wasn't uh you know I didn't have a college degree. I eventually got one. I I wasn't good in school. I I wasn't trained in business. I didn't like you know I wasn't the best athlete. I was wasn't the strongest nothing. And um but I was so committed to my vision that I was willing to to do the work over and over, do the reps and hustle more than the people around me in that. And I feel like that's what allowed me. You there were so many guys that I played sports with who were way more talented than me, but they didn't have the mindset and they didn't have the hustle. see it all the time. Yeah. Didn't have it and they didn't go after their dream or they fell short and or I was willing to do whatever it took. So, I think you've got to be willing to hustle smart and you can't just do it for a couple years. You got to be willing to do it over a long time if you want to continue to grow and build momentum. And when you stop hustling and you can still be hustling and just be smart about it and just pulling levers, you know, because you've built so much great relationships and you're just kind of like pushing and pulling levers. You don't have to like be exhausted every day. That's not what I'm talking about. But there might be a number of years where you've got to be exhausted. Yeah. You know, yeah. I mean, I'm just I feel like that's where I'm at, man. I feel like I wasted I squandered a good part of my early 20 or like my 20s. Uh and now, you know, the last few years I just been like hustling like you you know, you weren't hustling in your 20s. Uh okay. I was I was to be fair, but it may maybe wasn't uh I didn't have focus. Yeah. you know, you're hustling like on your body or your music. You're all over the place. I was all over the place. I didn't have the focus, you know? So maybe that it was like I didn't have the clear vision. Number one, man. Vision book is 10 years late for me, man. I'm trying to say vision. Vision is it. I mean, if you don't have a clear vision and you're just working hard to work hard, the energy is going to go scattered. It's not going to go towards the goal. So, you're never going to hit the mark because you don't know what the mark is. So, you got to have a clear mark you want to reach towards. And the mark can shift and change based on your interest level. And you know, there was a a year in high school I was like, I don't really care about baseball anymore, so I'm not going to play. It's not my vision anymore. I'm going to focus more on something else. So, we don't have to have it all figured out and know what we want to do for the next 20 years right now. But figure out what you want to do this year, you know, and what you think you want to do over the next couple years and have a vision towards that. Got it. Yeah. Yeah. See, yeah. Honestly, like v it's a good thing that vision is the first type cuz that's that I had the the drive like I had the hustle like I always kind of always had that. You wanted to get results on something. I just didn't know what. I just didn't have a focus, man. So like But you were putting a lot of energy in music, right? Music. Yeah. I was actually a rapper or a singer. Producer. I play guitar. I know you play guitar. Uh keyboard. Uh I'm not good at keyboard, but I I was there was a point where I got really good at guitar. This is old. Brandon Carter YouTube. uh acoustic videos. I'll check acoustic covers. I like it. And uh drums a little bit. And wow. You know, I always thought I'd be a professional musician in some capacity. I got signed to Sony Records uh right after right out of college. And then they merged with BMG. I lost on my deal. I got dropped and now I'm like, ah, what do I do? And I didn't really have the love for the music after the industry. I didn't have the for the for the industry, right? I still love music or whatever, but it's not uh it was like I didn't So I was like floundering over there. I didn't have I didn't have the vision. Interesting. Yeah. Interesting. And when did you get into music or into fitness? I've been working out since I was 17, man. Yeah. I was working out since I And it was just something that I noticed how it changed my personality. Like I was real shy like you, you know, like you said. And uh 16 is when I started and I was like shy the way you you said you were. And then fitness, you know, I got this thing this theory. I've seen it happen a long time. What what happened to me was uh you know you have to make these certain commitments to yourself every day when you're going to accomplish something and I think making those kind of commitments allows you to trust yourself more of course and then when you trust yourself what do you have more confidence you so I saw how it changed my my personality and I started training other people when you're lift when you're working out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Even like it wasn't the results like necessarily results in Yeah. Yeah. Doing stuff doing like keeping these little promises a thing you know it does something and I've seen it happen. I've been training other people for 15 years. Wow. Yeah. Like it was like my job while I was struggling. Sure. And uh I just seen it happen, man. Thought you were making money because you weren't making money in music. Exactly. Well, there's some other things that But yeah, primarily, right? And uh that was I mean it was always my thing, you know, like I I enjoyed training people. And then maybe like a it wasn't like a few years ago, I said, man, let me what if I went all out all in, you know, I'm pretty good at this. I've been doing this for over 10 years at training other people, get results for them. What if I went all in and I had the vision, you know? There you go. Yeah. Yeah. You had the focus and the energy went towards it and look at what you've created since, man. Blowing up. Yeah, man. I'm trying, man. I'm trying. I appreciate that. Hey, man. I'm I'm here, man. I'm here to only only the great only only the greatness s people sitting this seat. I seen Exactly. on your YouTube, man. You got all the [\h__\h] Larry King was just sitting here a week ago. Yeah. Larry King, man. Yeah. All these guys. Then what? It's good. That's a good segue into the next step, which is master your body. Yes. Perfect for you, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's most people are surprised. I put that in my book, like a whole chapter dedicated to mastering your your health and your body. It's interesting. You know, so many people have come to me generally for like entrepreneurial business advice. And I always say, "How's your health?" Because your physical and emotional mental health aren't in place. It doesn't matter how much money you make or how focused you are towards your business or how big of an audience you grow. If you're sick, unhealthy, unfulfilled emotionally, you're not going to have the energy throughout the day to do what you need to do. You're not going to have the focus of mind when the struggle comes because the adversity will come. It's on its way around a corner. It's coming. Yeah. The bigger the dream, the bigger the adversity, and it's going to continue to come. You just need to learn how to tackle it differently. Um, and I think Richard Branson once because I got a little overweight one time when I moved to New York City, man. Every street corner I was like $100 donut man, right? I was just like everything I just had, it was like this smells so good and every corner I was like, "Let me try that. Let me try that." Every meal I had to have dessert for many, many years. Got to do it. And they started calling me Fluis for Fat Lewis because I was just like chubby cheeks. I looked like the marshmallow man. It was like really bad one day. Lewis, man. And I remember seeing overweightness. It was, man. It was like screw up fat. And I remember I had a sweet little like uh loft pad in uh off Prince and Malberry. Okay. And um I remember like looking in the mirror one day with my shirt off and just underwear and my underwear was like rolling over and I was like this is unacceptable. I was like no I'm not going to allow myself to like get out of shape more than I'm already doing right now. And I remember reading something that uh Richard Branson said. He was like when someone asked him what's your key to business success he said mastering my health and I was like that's fascinating that his answer was not like I don't know building my team or systems or whatever it was just like fitness health is the key to being great in business and the more I started to train my mind and I started drinking green juice every day in New York and cut out sugar and you know gluten I just started researching more because my whole childhood I thought that mac and cheese was healthy I thought that pizza, you know, was healthy. I It's just like, it's protein. It's protein on Exactly. Like, this is good. This got to be good. Calcium, man. It's good. It's got vitamins in this cheese, right? Whatever. And um just so uneducated, you know, growing up in the Midwest in a small town, I was just uneducated. Yeah. I'm from Chicago. Yeah. Yeah. From Ohio, right? Exactly. Yeah. And um and when I started to master my body and listen, I was and when I was playing sports at a high level, I was eating crap. Yeah. And during games and practice, I was always yawning. And I never knew why I was yawning. I was just always like tired, tired, tired, tired. And my, you know, my body was great. I was in good shape, but it was just like I was tired. I didn't have the energy to like really sustain without being exhausted at the end of every game. And um when I shifted that and started really researching and educating myself and listening to the right podcasts and meeting health experts, I just started trying new things and eating healthier and dropped the weight and just started feeling like incredible. I felt like like unlimited energy. It's like I had rocket fuel. You know what I mean? Now you're going to the Olympics. Exactly. We didn't qualify, but Yeah. I'm going to watch. We didn't qualify. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's still awesome. Yes. I'm on the USA team though, so we just didn't qualify. But mastering your health, I think, um, is the only way to help you overcome those obstacles when they come your way. It's going to be a clearer mind, clearer energy, uh, on your path to greatness. Man, yo, I'm I'm glad it was in there because I think uh, it's easy when you're trying to build a business to or if you set goals to like, oh, I'll worry about that later. But I was glad that it was there as a as a because, you know, I see you got Tony Robbins on the wall. I know you did the the interview with the video with him on the the in the jet which is awesome. Uh when I have you on my jet, man, I got to get it first, man. But I got you on the I got the vision, bro. I got the vision. Uh what was I talking about? Oh, that's right. Okay. So, anyway, I read his book when I was like 17. Uh waking within and you know, still one of my top on my top five. And he said something that I'll never forget. He said he said uh motion creates motion meaning the way you your physiology. Yes. Right. So, if you're always if you're lethargic and yeah if you're if you're like big guys aren't usually standing up all you know usually you know just you're tired man you're carrying this extra weight you're just not like you said you're always even if you're not overweight you're just you said that letharity like you felt it's hard to go all out and have that hustle you talked about when you're not when you don't have energy that's it man that's it and you know the funny thing is the richest people in the world who neglect their health when they have cancer or they have strokes at 55 years old they would give anything to give up all their money to have, you know, another year or two of their life back. You know, Steve Jobs, richest, one of the richest dudes like for at what cost? What price did he pay to deal with the amount of stress that he dealt with to build something so great that he built? But at what price did he pay? You know, I'm sure he would give all of his money back to have another year of his life available for him. And he didn't prevent it enough. He didn't do the things he needed to with his health and his life paid the ultimate sacrifice. So yeah, you know, I'm not saying like there's people that neglect their health and they live a long life, but like my grandma. Yeah. Right. There's people that drink and smoke and they eat whatever and they live forever, but it's like they're outliers. Yeah. You can't rely on that, you know? And you might eat perfect and be clean and die young still. You you never know. But you want to set yourself to win, I think, and and prevent it, you know what I mean? The best you can. Even just like you said the energy even if we're not talking about we're like we're all gonna die right but it's not about the life the years in your life the life in your years right how much are you are you happy right now are you enjoying it takes discipline to master your health though so it does it does they have you to listen to Hey man that's what I'm here man school of uh swolleness as well school of ripness that's good that's it the next one was the next one was wait a minute I know Louis I know oh habits yeah my favorites this is my favorites yeah yeah positive habits I mean, you just said it because it takes the discipline away. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to conf because once you got the habits, you don't need the discipline. Yeah. It's easier. Yeah. It's easier to be disciplined because you have the routine, you have a habit, and you know what works. And this is why when you early on, you started going to the gym, you started to build the confidence, you started to get the momentum because you have the habits in place. Without them in place, you got to create a new habit every single day. Or you just got to like show up and try to like react to everything happening to you in your life as opposed to creating what you want with your habits and routines. So develop something on a daily basis throughout the morning, the afternoon, and at night to set you up to win to hit your vision. And we were talking about this before. You know, I like to to to meditate 10 minutes in the morning and 10 minutes at night. And I'm not always perfect, but I feel like when I do, I feel way better throughout the day. Way better. I feel more relaxed. I feel focused. I feel less reactive emotionally to situations. You know, I can handle the LA traffic a little better type of thing. Um, and I feel when I work out in the morning, I feel more productive as well. When I make my bed every day, I am extremely productive. I got to start. I still got to get that one in. It's a game changer, man. I'm telling you, a simple act of making your bed makes you complete, gives you confidence, builds momentum, and puts you in a mindset of completing throughout the rest of the day and being productive. I heard Tim Ferris say it, too. And then that him I read in your book, I'm like, "All right, let me make the let me make the damn bed." Yeah. Make the bed in the morning. Just clean your space, man. When you clean space, clean mind. Messy space, messy mind. Just like when you're working in your office, you've got stuff all over your desk, it's hard to get something done. And that's why everyone goes and like before I want to do anything, let me just clean my space first. Yeah, I think I'm assuming this is your space cuz you're looking at John like you got a messy space. But it's the worst. Even Even clean it, man. Look at this place. Clean. Yes. It's immaculate. Clean, you know, and if you're not good at it, you need to hire someone who is. I make my bed because it's my bed. Yeah. But I'm an assistant that does everything else and make sure everything else is in order because it's too much time and energy for me. But my bed is personal, so I want to make sure I I could have someone do that. She could do my bed, too. But I try to do it as often as possible myself. Not every morning, but most mornings I do. And um I just feel like yeah, when I go back into my room and when I come back in at night, it's a clean space to get relaxed and comfortable in as opposed to a messy space, messy mind at night, you know what I mean? It's just all these little subconscious things. I I totally know that's true because there's been times in my life like there's been times when I'm working on something uh and I I've checked in hotels to work just because no clutter or or I uh when I fly I always get the best work done on I get so much work done on planes. Uh one is isolation from distraction. Uh, so like I I'll I I'll spend money on first class flights, not for the luxury, just focus, you know, space to use space. No clutter. No clutter. So if I can h I got to hire somebody. If you like a job, email support at bro Laboratories. You like to clean laboratories. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. That Oh, no. That I like that. I like that. I like that. I like that. So all right, I'm gonna make I'm start making my bed. But then it's like, oh, that's perfect segue into building the building your team. That's it, man. Building your team. So, um, if you want, if you have a bigger dream, we can't do anything on our own. We can't do anything great alone. If you have a vision, a big vision to make a million dollars, there's no way you can do it all on your own. You're going to need people support to help you get to that vision. Um, especially the bigger the dream, you need a team. Like Steve Jobs didn't do it on his own. He had 20,000 employees, you know what I mean? People working with him supporting him to get his vision to come to life. So, you got to build the team around you. Even if you're starting small, even if you're 20 years old, you may think like, well, I can't hire anyone. But you can have mentors. You can have your family. You can have your friends on your team and say, "This is my vision right now. This year, I want to create X, Y, and Z. This year, I want to have a six-pack. this year I want to graduate college whatever it is and you can get people to support you who are experts in the area of helping that and make it come true. That's a great advice. I mean like that's that's a great advice like because I recently hired well I had a friend who's a mentor and he has a supplement company that's way bigger than mine that they do and way bigger than mine. Like they do like crushing it. Yeah. crush it, crush it, you know, eight figures, you know, like, you know, like they crush it. And uh I I didn't have to do this, but I pay him every month a consulting fee just to, "Hey, man, I just need an hour of your time." Yeah. Because I I value your And how much better does your company do because of that mentorship and coaching, man? We've 5xed like uh in revenue since I got him. Since I've been just paying him just executing the things he's been telling you because he knows what to do. All I do is just do what he says. I don't even guess, right? Is that that's the beauty of having a coach. So like Jordan didn't win without a coach. Uh Kobe didn't win without a coach. And then when you're on top, you know, some people think, well, okay, once I hit it, I don't need a coach anymore. Jordan always had a coach. He didn't say, "Okay, this season I got a coach. Like we won the championship last year. I think I'm good now." But you don't need a coach anymore. He hires better coaches, you know, personal coaches, trainers to do whatever. Tim Grover was his trainer until he's retired since like to to the the third time he retired from the Warriors, you know, Tim Grover was his trainer the whole time. Crazy. And he's the best in the world. He's got a coach. So, what makes you think you don't need a coach? That's what, you know, that's what I told myself. What makes you think you don't need a coach? So, I just put the money up, man. Like, it's it's worth it. You know, I would do it at any level. I wish I did it earlier. Yeah. It's good, man. Yeah. So build a positive team around you. Yeah. Yeah. And then it was we already talked about service but you know service you know. Okay. So typically it's a lot of a lot of times we get to self like a lot I've read like probably a hundred I feels like 100 Brian Tracy books or any of these like personal development books. There's always that service chapter and I always skip it. But I didn't skip yours and I read this but I I would I would like more uh because you know I just I think I was more selfish in my absolutely man. Me too. You know, here's the thing. You know, in my teens and 20s, it was all about me. And I made it all about me and what I wanted and what I wanted to achieve and who I needed to be better than and how much money I wanted to make and how many accomplishment accomplishments I wanted to have and be able to talk about how I wanted to be recognized. It was all about me. And I'll tell you what, I was so driven to make them happen that I did. But the cost and the price was loneliness, was suffering, was emotional pain, was hurting people. And um my ego really, you know, hurt me emotionally. And it wasn't until and listen, I I was always a giving, loving person as well, but it was just like I I made it more about me than anything else. Yeah. You know, because I wanted things. And when I started to shift this a number of years ago, about five years ago, and I said, you know what, I really want to start giving back. And I've made a lot of money now, but I just not feeling the fulfillment. And when I started to give back financially, emotionally, coaching of my time, whatever it may be, like the it was the greatest fulfillment. Yeah. It's better, right? When we give, we receive the greatest gift actually is in the giving. The getting is in the giving. And people forget this. They want to receive, receive, receive. It took me a long time to realize this, but the getting is in the giving. And um there's no greater life than living a life of service. Now, that doesn't mean neglect yourself, neglect your dreams. It means in the pursuit of your dreams, how can you give to others around you? Exactly. How can you make it about inspiring others? How can you get in shape, but also create content and spend your time and money and energy to produce something to give to other people? So you're helping people along your dream and journey as well and that is inspiring and it's way more fulfilling than just making it about yourself. Yeah. No, definitely. I wish like it makes me wish I didn't skip those service the chapter cuz cuz once I once I make that shift too and then it's like these when I get like testimonials from people like there's nothing I can buy that would give me that feeling and because I know what because I've been in that person's shoes you know like you said you that's where you said you were you were shy and then you start you got sports in it. I know what that does to to their to their their mind, you know, it's it's more of a mental thing than it is a physical thing. Exactly. So, when I get those testimonials and these people telling me I changed their lives and uh powerful, right? Yeah, man. I know. I'm sure you get it too all the time. And it's it's nothing I can buy that's going to feel like that, you know, like I you know, so a car watch maybe for a moment it'll feel fun but not fulfilling. Yeah. It's cool. It's cool until the next thing comes out. Exactly. But this doesn't replace this can't be replaced by the next thing. It's not it's it's a different thing. So I'm It took me a while. It took maybe maybe it's something you have to grow up to understand. Maybe you have to go through what you talking about the pain. Yeah. Hurting yourself. Yeah. Well, man. Yo, honestly, man, I love the book. I've been a big fan of the podcast. You know, I told you earlier, I read your other book on webinars, the first one, like, you know, but this one is really good. Uh is really good. And those you guys know, I do book reviews. This is one of my favorites this year. Uh, so yeah, man. Check it out. I'll put a link in description. You know, you can buy wherever books are sold. Where else can they can they uh you got a podcast, right? I do have a podcast. Yeah. Yeah. School of Greatness on iTunes or just lish.com to learn more. Nice. All right, man. Yo, appreciate it. Appreciate it, Brandon. Thanks, man. We appreciate it. Yo, we doing a new coaching program, 30 days of greatness. And every morning I'm going give you a different key to help you accomplish your inner greatness to help bring it out of you. And I'll be doing Q&As's and asking questions and you'll be able to send your questions in before. That way if you can't make it to that morning session, you'll be able to watch the replay. All right, this is only for people who join the 30 days of greatness program. But on top of that, I'm throwing in a lot of dope bonuses. I'm throwing in free copies of my books and never before seen footage of me and some of my friends, colleagues, mentors, people I look up to, people I respect. I filmed a ton of masterminds with those people. So, it's going to be hours and hours of bonus footage that is only going to be available to the people who join 30 days of greatness. It takes 21 days to build a habit. I'm throwing in nine extra ones cuz I want you to become great. I want to bring that out of you. And if you already are great, let's become great to her. There's always room for improvement. Let's do this. Let's do this together. All right. Click the link below to sign up, man. Wipe it back in the shower.