So, I lived in New York for 15 years. First, I was in Queens, then I moved to the Upper West Side. I got some money. And there was something I noticed when I was living in New York. the guys who got the most girls, like who slept with the most girls. I mean, hot girls, it would be these Dominican guys I I I used I would know who either like didn't have a job or maybe they had like a dead end job like driving Uber, something they can make their own schedule and they got the most girls by far and it wasn't close. And hot girls too, you know what I'm saying? like hot chicks. And at the same time, I knew dudes who were working really, really hard to make a bunch of money, become successful. And a big motivation for a lot of these guys was to get girls, right? because they figured if they had enough money, they can like have freedom to do all the stuff and, you know, resources and whatever to get girls, right? That's a big motivation for a lot of guys. So, these guys would work super hard to get to to accomplish those goals. Then they had enough time and resources like to allocate to get in with hot girls. But they it's like they worked really hard to get to the place where the Dominican Uber driver had got to easily. You get what I'm saying? Like they had to climb a mountain for years to get to a place that the Dominican dude just had to step into. here's why that story is going to make sense. That wasn't my, first of all, that was not my motivation to get rich. My motivation was take care of my family after my dad uh committed suicide, right? I need that was my motivation, not women. And I'm not saying money should be your motivation. I mean, women I'm not saying women should be your motivation. But here here's what here's where this is going to make sense. When I first started my my business, I uh online training was like my my first real successful business being online training. And I got to about 20 30k by myself a month online training. And man, I felt super rich. I felt super super rich. And it wasn't easy, especially back then because there was no like mentors or, you know, all of us who were doing online training back then, we were like the first. We we had to invent it, you know. cuz it it was back when I was like 25 20 26 27 I'm you know I'm 43 now so you know almost 20 years ago like the internet and social media wasn't as sophisticated as is now so we had to invent it and took it it took a lot of effort but I got there you know then I felt rich at 30k I felt like oh man you know I I got all my bills covered I can take care of my mom I have some money left shoulder invest. I can I don't have to worry about like minor expenses. I can go I can go on a vacation, you know, like I I feel really good at 30K. Like I feel rich. Then I was then I was like, "Okay, man. What happens if I make a million?" Now, making a million dollar that's not 30K a month. That's going to be around $88,000 per month to get there. That [\h__\h] took everything. Like straight up, that [\h__\h] took everything. Uh, it'd be a little easier now, but back then it took everything. Like I I was obsessive. There was no balance. And I got there. But to get there, I also had to hire people, right? I also had to um take on more responsibility because now I had to hire people. The first hire was a video editor and you know then I hired some people to do other things and other coaches underneath me and I had to build like a real business. You know I I could I was able to just hustle my way to 30K but I had to build like a real structured business with hierarchies in order to get to a million. When I got to a million it felt the same as as 30k month. like $88,000 a month felt the same, especially because it wasn't all profit, right? You know, I had to pay employees and, you know, I'm running ads, so it wasn't all profit. So, I didn't even put 88K in my in my pocket. You know, I probably put closer to 50s, 60, you know, around that range in my pocket. But it didn't feel different. I I really just put more money in my investments, which which is good on some long-term [\h__\h] Um, but it's like I had to it just like the dude who had to work really hard to get to the place where the Dominican Uber driver had to just walk to, I feel like I had to give up everything and work super hard to get to a place that I that I got to a lot easier, you know? And the point I'm trying to make is 30k a month, man. I think that should be your goal. That's the sweet spot. You can do it with one person, especially now with with AI. You can have a It's way easier to have a one person business to get to 30K. You can probably get to 50K now, one guy. You don't? I mean, I know you can't with with with with advancements in AI and man, it just it just feels at at 30K, man. I'm telling you, it it really feels you feel rich. You can take care of everything. You can get a place like maybe you don't get a place as big as mine, but you can get a place like this. Like you can get a view like this, right? You you may maybe you don't get Richard Mills, right? But but you can get a [\h__\h] dope Omega or or even a a Rolex. Like you can get a Rolex, a used Submariner for like 10K. You good money. You know what I'm saying? Or even better, get yourself a Cardier Santos. You can have a dope watch. You can wear nice clothes. Maybe you're not shopping at the LV store, right? But [\h__\h] that. You know what I'm saying? Like you you will feel rich. You can take care of your parents. I think that's a good goal for you. And then once you get there, then you decide, hey, do I want more? I still probably make that decision, right? Because it feels way different once you're making multiple millions. Okay, that's when [\h__\h] is different. But like $1 million a year doesn't feel different than 30K a month. It really doesn't. So that should be your goal. All right. So, how do we get there? I'm break it down for you. Step one, you have to pick a product or ser you want to sell. Like what kind of business you want to start? I suggest you do a service-based business. I've talked about this before because it's less startup cost and less and more importantly less overhead. So why do businesses go out of business? 80% of businesses fail because they can't cover their expenses. That's why a business fails. If your expenses are low, it's a lot more difficult to fail. You get what I'm saying? You put the odds more in your favor. So, a service-based business could be anything. It could be running ads for people. That's what my boy Jeremy does. He's like my richest friend. Like, he runs ads for people. He gets he's so good at it. He gets a percentage of revenue, right? So he'll like get people to a million dollars a month running ads and then he'll he gets 10% of that. You know what I'm saying? So $100,000 a month per client. He has multiple clients. He's helped get to a million dollars per month, right? So he's like one of my richest friends, right? You can also do I mean but again he's an expert. He's been doing this [\h__\h] for like 20 years almost, right? Or 15 years. Um, you can also do uh you can do people's taxes, you can do video editing, data analytics, there's all types of stuff you can do as a service based business. You can clean people's pools, right? Landscaping, any sort of service. Well, I made again, I made my first million as an online trainer, help people get in great shape online. It it fit with even though I had to work really hard, I didn't mind it because I love fitness and I love helping people capture their goals. So, it didn't feel even though I worked really hard, it didn't feel like work. If I had to do one of these other jobs, it would be more drudgery because it's not my calling. Like, my calling is being a coach. Hey, if you want to before I get into the next steps, if you want to learn how to become an online trainer, I'm doing a live training on Wednesday where on Wednesday, I'm sorry, it's going to be on Sunday, March 1st at 2 p.m. where I'mma break down exactly how to use AI to to get to become an online trainer, build your online training business, whether you have one or not, you don't need a lot of experience. is going to show you how to do it even if you don't have a lot of experience, even if you're not certified, even if you don't um have a big following. I'm going to show you how to grow your following with AI. I'm going show you how to use AI to get more sales and more leads. And I'm going show you how to use AI to actually train your clients so you so they get great results and you can take on more clients without having to spend as much time. Uh the links description, sign up now. Anyway, service-based business. That's step one. Step two is to get as good as you can at providing that service. So what does that mean? That's going to mean, you know, reading. You might need to read some books on it. You might need to take some classes, take some courses. Depending on what you're doing, you might have to go to school, right? Um getting the easiest way to do is get a mentor. That's the one that's guaranteed to work because you got to think about it, man. Think about like Star Wars. Luke, he was special. He had the gift. He had the [\h__\h] space magic. He was nice with the space magic, but he still wasn't good enough to go [\h__\h] with Darth Vader in the Empire. So, he had to go get what? A mentor. First, he had Obi-Wan, right? Obi-Wan's like, "Nah, you need to you need to go change this little green [\h__\h] Old Yoda." you know, and old he so he goes trains with old Yoda in the swamp or some [\h__\h] and old Yoda teaches him how to use the space magic. Now, because he had a mentor, he had training, he was able to harness the space magic better. Boom. Next thing you know, he kills his dad, [\h__\h] his sister, saves the universe, right? So, mentors is like the best way to learn. It's legit the best way to learn. I remember when I was learning guitar, I was like, "All right, I'll just figure it out on YouTube. I play instruments before. I know what I'm doing. I already played keyboard and I play drums. So, like, yo, guitar, I'll be able to figure this out." And I made some progress YouTube videos. I bought like books and I made progress. But I felt stupid after one month of getting the actual guitar teacher and training with him every week. I felt stupid for waiting so long because I made more progress that first month than I did the whole like year prior to that because I had a mentor. So mentors really speed it up. Um, but if you if you can't afford that, you know, YouTube, books, courses, classes on whatever whatever your thing is. Again, if you want to be an online trainer, I'm doing a live a free live training where I'll show you how on March 1st, 2 p.m., hit the link in the description. But learn as much as you can about it. Like, study it, be obsessive, and get really good. And once you feel like you're proficient enough to get started or you you've consumed enough material to get started, now you have to put it into practice and you so what you're going to do is you're going to find some people that you can do it for for free that you can tr you can you can provide your service for for free. So if you're let's say vibe coding websites or apps that's going to be your thing. you find some people who you can make free apps, you're gonna say, "I'll make you this free app in exchange for a testimonial or I'll make you this website in exchange for testimonial, right?" Or that's one thing I do I teach my students how to do. Well, I teach how to grow their online fitness business. We call it the testimonial harvest. First, you need to do found find around five fat boys that you can train for free. Get get them amazing results. And then now you can now you got credibility because you got testimonials from the fat asses, right? And who you made regular. You took them from fat to regular. Now they in good shape. So help help somebody for like a month or however long it takes for you to get five good testimonials. All right. Then the next step is now you start marketing that [\h__\h] on social media. Initially you probably don't need to spend ads. You're going to make content about your [\h__\h] and have like little CTAs, call to actions for people to learn more and you flex your testimonials and then you start getting some paid clients. Oh, and let's go back to the testimonial harvest. A lot of times that's people's first clients because let's say you you help them lose a bunch of weight in a month and you can here's a key. If you online trainer, here's a tip. Get the fattest [\h__\h] you can find because the fatter you are, the faster you lose weight. Now, your body doesn't want to hold on to all that body fat. But once you get lean, the leaner you get, the more your body kind of wants to hang on to that body fat and it's going to fight you. That's why people say, "Oh man, my fat loss has slowed down." Yeah, that's what's supposed to happen. Like, it's going to be rapid at first if you're super fat and then as you get leaner, it slows down. Anyway, get the fattest [\h__\h] you can find because they'll give you you can help them lose like a lot of fat in in a in a month. I I once helped a dude lose 75 pounds in 75 days, right? But he was obese. He was like well over 300 lbs, right? Obviously, somebody's lean, you're not going to get those kind of results, right? Anyway, you flex it and and after you help them for a month, you say, "Hey, if you want to keep doing this, I I you can work with me for half off." Boom. And a lot of times that's people's first clients, you know, and it's a super easy sale because you already helped them. So, let's say I'm building apps for people. Hey, if you want me to maintain this or manage this for you, here's the going to be my retainer, right? Right? Or if you're doing like AI automations for people, hey, if you want me to maintain this [\h__\h] for you, then uh this is my retainer. A lot of times people you do the testimonial for, those can be your first clients, right? And then you keep stepping it up. You just keep stepping up, keep going, keep going, keep going. And once you're getting to around 5 to 10K a month, then you want to start running ads, right? Well, you're running ads and this Instagram ads, Facebook ads. That's probably where I would concentrate. If you're a local business, you can do local Google ads. Those work well, you know. Um, yeah, you start running ads and that that that will increase the lead flow and then you just keep doing that till you get to 30K a month. And once you get to 30K a month, man, especially if it's 30K profit, then look at your life and decide if you want to go further because for between 30K a month and a and 88k a month, you you won't feel different and your businesses changes a lot. It's a lot more stressful to get to that level and I don't think the stress outweighs the benefits. Now, if you take it to like multi-million dollars a month, that's when things feel different. That's when things feel different, right? Like I do sh I can do [\h__\h] now making multiple millions a month that I couldn't do on 30, right? Like I took my son to Disney World You know, I flew him and his mom first class to Orlando. I flew first class to Orlando from Miami. Boom. We meet up there and we got the the VIP passes. So, we cut we going not the fast lane [\h__\h] like we're going in front of the line to the front like no line. And if we want to go on that [\h__\h] again, we just stay in. We just say, "Hey man, we doing it again." And we stay on skipping [\h__\h] who've been waiting for hours. Right? You can do that type of [\h__\h] with multiple millions and it becomes better, right? like like uh my son's school costs 20K a year. You can probably do that with 30K depending on what your other budget is, but like I don't have to think about it. You know what I'm saying? You know, I I put thousands of dollars in investment fund just for my son every month. I've been doing that since he was two, right? So, he's going to be a multi-millionaire, you know, at at 18. And you know, I got I got them my my life insurance, you know, I put [\h__\h] like I have uh it's one of those index life insuranceances where that you can actually borrow against if you want to like that kind of thing. And I put like another 4K into that every month, right? So, if I if I if I ever die, unlikely. But if I ever die, uh, he immediately gets like a few million. You know, then you can do [\h__\h] like that. You know what I'm saying? My mom need a new car. I just go get it right at at millions. So, but that it's kind of that that space in between 30k a month and 2 million is almost like a purgatory. After 2 million just feels different, right? But in between there is almost like a purgatory where you're working like super hard for the same feelings. But past like 2 million, that's when things feel different and like ex exponentially different. But other than that, you kind of in purgatory. So, I feel like get the get the 30K a month and then see if you want to do what it takes to get to 2 million a year. See if that's something that you you're willing to to do. I think a lot of you guys are going to be super happy at 30K a month. Like super happy and super you you can have you can have a bit of balance, right? But if you want a million dollar a year, there's not going to be a lot of balance. Like you're going to be super unbalanced. I think a lot of you guys would be happier there. Kind of like the Uber driver. He's kind of happy there. I wouldn't recommend that long term. Like have no job or a dead end job. The [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You can do that in your 20s, right? Maybe early 30s, but after after that, them mother [\h__\h] gonna be like, "Hey, [\h__\h] what the fuck?" You know? But you get what I'm saying. You get the point. Hope that makes sense. Hey, register for that live training. I'm doing on uh if you want to learn how to grow your online fitness business using AI. All right.