 libyargao-gao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao ligao and I pay for Gemini, but Gemini is my go-to. So much so, you know, if you got an iPhone, you get that little action button. You can make the action button do whatever you want. I have it so it opens up Gemini. This is the very first reason why I think Gemini is kind of superior to other L&Ms. It syncs up perfectly with all your Google stuff. Google Calendar, Google Task. That's where I keep my to-do list, Google Task. Anything else you have, Google. So let me show you how this works. I just hit this button. I need you to add something to my calendar for tomorrow morning. Sure. What should I title the event? And how long would you like it to be? Breakfast with my big booty girlfriend at 10.30. I've added breakfast with my big booty girlfriend to your primary calendar for Friday, February 27th at 10.30 a.m., ending at 11.30 a.m. Oh, first of all, thank you. And also, I need you to add a task to my Google Task for tonight. What is the title of the task you'd like to add? Crack My Latina GF. A task titled Crack My Latina GF has been added to your Google Tasks for tonight. Thanks. You can't do that with ChatGPT. You can't get ChatGPT to edit your Google Calendar. It syncs perfectly in it. So anytime there's a new event, and sometimes people will ask me to show somewhere or somebody will be texting me about an event, I can take a screenshot, just upload it to Gemini, add it to my calendar, and it adds it with everything. I'm telling you, man. And y'all know I use Google Calendar pretty extensively. Like, this is what my calendar looks like. I plan every hour of every day in my calendar, right? And because it integrates so well with Google Tasks, you can do things like, let's say we go to YouTube, we find this video, we want to check it out. We ain't got time to watch this shit. A city that's becoming the most powerful money. All right, so fuck it. Just copy the link, put it in the Google Gemini, summarize this video, put it in there, boom. Where ChatGPT or Claw, they would struggle with this, but because Gemini is owned by Google, you get a dope summary of the whole thing. It'll add the timestamps for you to a video, you know? I'm just telling you, man. This is the next level. Like, you really do some things with Gemini that you can't do with ChatGPT. But also, Gemini has the best image model. If I go to my pictures, take this picture of my girlfriend, hey, hey, and I say, make her swimsuit blue. And it's going to use Gemini's Nano Banana. And they just came out with a new Nano Banana. This is better than Photoshop. Boom. Made it blue. Kept everything else the same. Made the swimsuit blue. It's legit. It made the swimsuit blue. It didn't change anything else. Now, let's say I fucking download this shit. I'm going to open up a new Gemini. Let's say I want to get crazy. Take the blue picture, plus an image of me, all right? And I'll say something like, put the two people together on a beach. This is a pro tip when you're doing this. You got to say how tall the people are because they don't know how tall it is. Sometimes they'll make it the same height. She's 5'2". She is 5'2". And the man is 6'2". Oh, this is a different... That's not what I asked for, but it's something. That's not what I thought it was going to do, but it gave me shorts, you know? I'm all up on her, man. So it has the best image generation tools, you know? And you're going to have to play around. You're going to have to do it a bunch of times because some of the results may vary. I definitely, by far, think it's the best one. Not only that, it also has the best image generation. All right, so I'm going to add a photo of me. Same photo. Put the guy in the photo in an action movie trailer. This takes a little bit sometimes. Oh, the video's ready. See what this looks like. Keep moving! Look out! It's right behind you! I know! I can't stop! If I had more time, I'd do a few, and I'm sure some of them would work out right. You could also make your own apps with Google Gemini. Let me show you some stuff that I made. This is a trading app I made with Gemini. I'll show you guys how to do it. So this is a dashboard I made just like straight Zill. You can put in your trades, and you get your net win, your net average, and you got the calendar for all the trades you made each day, and you can go back in time and look at all of them. You can see your whole trade log. You can export the data. And I made this shit with just a prompt. You can save this and use it. So instead of buying some software, you would just make it in Gemini on the free version. I taught my son how to do this, and he made a game. I'll show you the game my son made, you know? So basically, you're this man, and then you go in here, and you can drop bombs, basically. My son is eight. I don't know why he decided to go with the violence. There's a game he made. Eight-year-old made it. You can get in his car if you want it. Press F. I taught him how to, like, vibe code his own games. This is fun for him, right? And that's useful for your kid, but, you know, if you're a man, I made a game, too. It's called Baller Brothers. It's like Super Mario. You got this bag, right? You jump over here. You collect the money, right? But then, like, the tax man is trying to get the money from him. You got to shoot him with some money. Ah! Oh, bankrupt. Hold on, I'm going to show you how to win Baller Brothers. So the haters is out here trying to get your money from you. Got him. Got him. Come on, man. Baller Brothers. It's like Mario Brothers, but it's for balling. Come on, man. Let's go. Let's go. Boom. Got him. Bam. Ultimate Baller. And I'll show you how you can make it. But, yeah, I just made a game. I coded it up right quick. Vibe coded, of course, right? So sometimes I need to make, like, tier list videos. I didn't like the platforms where you can do it like the sites. They're fucking janky. So I just made one. I can change the name of it to whatever I want. Then I can upload images, put the pictures we just made. Girlfriend in the blue, legendary. You know what I'm saying? Me and her together, legendary. You know? Solid. Legendary. You know what I'm saying? And so here's another one I made. It's a to-do list. Basically, you put your to-do list in here. Let's say I want to add this shit. You know, a new thing, finish, YouTube video. Boom. I wanted to have some stuff in this that I didn't see on other to-do lists. So once, let's say, this is my to-do list, right? I can put my due date. Let's say I want it done by tomorrow. Let's say when I start working on it, I can track how long it's taking for me to work. Boom. Now I'm starting, now I'm timing the work, how long each task works. I had never saw that before in a to-do list app. So I just made it. Then I can look at my calendar. I can see, this is not my real to-do list, but I can see, okay, what needs to be done when it's going to be due. And then, go back to the board. 20 seconds, right? And it saves. Boom. It's safe. Then when I move here, I said, I wanted it to reward me with a little explosion. And I made it right there. If you want to make your own app or game, what you do is go to tools, put it on canvas. I put it on pro. If you have, if you have it pro, right? You know, and then just put it on canvas and say, make me a habit tracker. We're already here, man. And here's what I like to do. Ask me any clarify questions you need. Need before you start. Ask one at a time. No more than three. If I had more time, I would let it ask me as many questions as it needs. But this is something I like to put at the end of it because sometimes it needs clarification. I don't want it to just go out on its own doing shit. All right. I love to help you with a habit tracker to fix exactly your needs. First question, do you want it to be simple, minimalist, streak tracker, just checking days off or something more gamified with points and reward? Oh, all right. Let's make it simple. It's probably going to ask me another question in a second. Second question for the main layout. Would you like it? Would you put rolling weekly full month calendar view for each? See, and this is the thing, man. If I'm vibe coding, I always ask it to ask me clarifying questions because it'll think of shit that I didn't think of. You know what I'm saying? Because it was trained on so much. All right. Perfect. Full month calendar view. Third question. Do you want it to be able to create and manage multiple different habits? I want to define the core features. Let's just make sure it starts. Like I've made apps with Chad GPT, but it's fucking janky, bro. It's not as cool as this. And after you make it, you can like share it with people. Hey, the habit tracker. All right. Boom. Let's see. Let's see what we got here, man. And you can keep editing it, right? New habit. Let's say meditate. Boom. Read 20 pages. Oh, so you can track it each day. Yeah. Little habit tracker with the month view. Oh, okay. It's each day. So whether I did it or not, ah, I see. Let me add another habit workout. Okay. This is interesting how it does it. Okay. Now I can say something like add a page where I can see each habit streak. So let's say we got, we, we, we hit these habits. Let's see what the streak. Oh, I can see this. Okay. Check this out. Okay. This is kind of cool. So I can put all my habits in here and say meditate. I think I spelled the word wrong. Don't worry about it. Workout hit macros. Boom. All right. So let's say I have been doing this every day. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Let's go. Let's just see what it looks like. So I hit, I just mark off the habits, right? Boom. And then, then I hit streak. Boom. Come on, man. Longest streak. Yo, this is kind of dope, man. That's what I'm saying. And then I can keep reiterating this, you know, as much as I want. This is kind of cool. Instead of buying software, just something you want to use or just make your own, but you can also, this is the new thing. You can make music. We can create a track and they have like little templates here. Oh, Latin pop. Nineties rap. You know, that's what I got going. Nineties rap. Customize the track. Hey, about making money all day, every day. Put it on pro. Let's go. Oh, y'all ready for the track? Yeah. Ninety twelve tactics for the currency stacking. Seven days a week. My pockets never slacking from the sunrise hustle to the midnight maneuver. A paper chasing lyrical overachiever. We making money all day. I mean, bad nineties rap. Let's try this again. Oh no, they got reggae tone. Song about, they rap too fast. So I don't know what they're saying. I don't know what any of the songs are about. Song about a girl you like. Whatever. The songs are fast. Flow me mata. Cuando bailas. De tote desacata. Me gusta como lo haces. De la disco te apodera. Diosa de noche la más dura. La que yo quisiera. Tú tienes en no sé qué. Que me tiene envuelto. En tu mirada, mami, me encuentro suelto. Diosa. Tu movimiento me controla. Quiero que seas mía, baby, solo por ahora. Diosa. En la pista rompen la carretera. Y por ti yo hago lo que sea. Nena, lo que sea. Here's the thing. All reggaeton sound the same. It's all different versions of that. But yo, it sounded aight, man. Yo, that wasn't bad. I'm gonna download that, man. That's good bunny right there. We need to try another genre. We know it's good at reggaeton. Oh, R&B romance? Yo. All right. Hold up. Hold up. Let's go. Let's go R&B romance. Write a love song called Your Daddy Don't Know You Let Me Crack. Let's see if it does it. It might not. It might. It might not do it. You know, let's see what happens. Let's go. Ooh, girl. Yeah. Just the thought of you next to me Doing things your daddy wouldn't believe Your daddy don't know that you let me crack And there ain't no turning back No, no Your daddy don't know you give me all your love Send straight from heaven above From heaven above Yeah. There we go. And this is the shit you can do with Gemini, man. Listen, listen, hold on. If you didn't know that Gemini was better than ChatGPT, you should know now if you heard Daddy Don't Know You Let Me Crack. I think that solidified it. If that's not worth $20 a month, motherfucker, I don't know this. So with Gemini, you have full integration, with all Google products. You can do video, the best video generator, one of them at least, the best image generator, music generation, make your own apps. The fuck else you want, man? Like the fuck else you want? Like why would you even fuck with anything else? The only thing ChatGPT has on Gemini is projects where you can like organize your chats and folders. Gemini has some like gems, but gems are more like a custom GPT. They were similar to that. If they just had folders, I can have all the apps I make in a folder. If they, I can have all the videos I made in a folder, right? Something like that would be cool. Come on, man. ChatGPT ain't gonna make you a song like this, man. Guys, if you want to learn how you can use AI to grow your online fitness business, I got a free ebook called The 7 Day AI Action Plan for Online Trainers. It's going to really break down how you can start using AI to grow your following, how you can start using AI to actually get more clients, make more sales, and how you can use AI to actually train your clients so they get amazing results while saving you time. It's 100% free. Click the link in the description and sign up for it. All right? Peace. Peace.