还是essessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessess will. I believe that discipline is actually for amateurs. I believe that if you can structure your life and change the wiring in your brain to be motivated all the time, you won't need discipline because discipline means you're fighting through something. And that's cool. It's good to have that talent. What if you could just turn on motivation and it wasn't a fight to do what you wanted to do? What if it became autopilot for you? Wouldn't that be better? In this video, I'm going to show you exactly how, and I'm going to break it down in four steps, each one better than the last. If you're so unmotivated that you can't even watch this video, there's no hope for you, bro. You might as well find the best bridge in your city and start living underneath it because you got no future. Let's get into it. First, we need to understand why there is a motivation deficit among young men. I hear a lot of people say, how do you become motivated? How do you come motivated? Or they ask me how to become disciplined, how to become disciplined. And a lot of the red pill manosphere guys will tell you that man, it's society making men weak, or it's the media making men weak. It's women. It's the government. It's the matrix. It ain't none of that. It's comfort. We're victims of our own success. Cause you got to remember if you are just like a regular guy doing regular shit, you're living better than Kings lived 200 years ago. You can be below the poverty line in a first world country living in section eight and you're living better than Kings used to live hundreds of years ago. You got AC, you can make your apartment or home, whatever temperature you want. King Solomon couldn't do that shit. Jesus couldn't do that shit. Well, Jesus probably could. He just didn't. That brother could do a lot of things, but you get what I'm saying. If you want to eat some delicious food, you can get it whenever you want, right? And if you're too poor to get it yourself, the government will give you some food stamps and shit. You got these phones with endless entertainment. If a King wanted to get entertained, he had to go take over a new land or call in the court jester or go to his harem and hope they're not on their periods. But here's the thing about having a harems. They don't tell you about, you know, when you get a bunch of girls together, the periods line up only real players know what I'm talking about. But, um, I've heard it's comfort. And here's the problem. If everything is okay, it's difficult to go out and strive for more because if you did nothing, you'd still probably be all right. In the first world country, it's very difficult to fail here in America. Like to be homeless, you pretty much got to be schizophrenic or be on heroin. And here's why that is. Sigmund Freud, he's the father of modern psychology. He's also a coked up pervert, but he has some good ideas. And one of them was the pleasure pain principle. Basically said, the reason anyone does anything is they're either moving towards perceived pleasure or away from perceived pain. The reason you're not motivated is because things are too good for you where you are. You're a victim of your own success. Most people live in that purgatory where they don't really love where they're at, but they're not uncomfortable enough to make any changes. And if you're unmotivated, you're probably there. Now you can watch a bunch of David Goggins and try to muster up enough discipline to fight through that. But what if we could change your brain? So you actually wanted to work hard to level up. What if you didn't need discipline? I'm going to show you how to get there. We got to change the way we think. We got to change our associations with pain and pleasure. When you change your brain, you change the game. So here's how it works. Pleasure playing principle. Right now, you associate pleasure with gooning, watching corn, watching TV, doing drugs, getting high, call a war craft, partying, social media, right? You associate pleasure with that. And you associate pain, this fire represents pain, with working out, studying, reading, building your business, hard work. You associate pain with these things. If you wanted to do these things that you associate pain with, it's going to take a tremendous amount of discipline. And if you want to avoid these bad habits that you need, that you associate pleasure with, it's also going to take a tremendous amount of discipline. What we need to do is change your association with pain and pleasure. We need to make it so where we switch them, where you start associating pain with gooning, partying, chasing random thoughts, and you start associating pleasure with the things that will help you accomplish your goals. How do you do that? I only know one method to change your association with pain and pleasure. But if you do this, you will not need as much discipline as you think, because you will have a consistent stream of motivation. You need to incorporate something I call the list of hate and the list of great. These are two lists that you're going to make. You want to keep them on you at all times. Maybe make some Apple notes, pin it to the top. If you got an Android, then you can put it at, what's it called, man? Nerd notes. Oh, poverty note. I'm just playing. I got an Android too. I got an Android and two iPhones. I don't live life of scarcity, brother. This is what you're going to do. Pay attention to me. You're going to write down a list of everyone who's done you wrong. Everyone who said you wouldn't make it. Every chick who cheated on you. Every dude who stole your girl. I'm sorry about that. As a matter of fact, I know it was your girl. I'm just kidding. I wouldn't fuck your girl. You ain't even got no motivation. Everybody who's ever did anything negative to you in your life. You put them on your list. Here's the thing. This is why it's important. When you don't work hard, you got to know that the haters are winning. The haters want you to just goon all day, play World of Minecraft all day. They don't want you reading books. The haters don't want you working on your business. Haters don't want to see you up at 4 a.m. getting after it. They want to see you fail, get fatter and poorer. You can't let the haters win. That's one part of it. Before I talk about the list of great, sometimes people will hear me say this and they're like, man, you should just want it for you. You shouldn't care about what other people think. Shut the fuck up, bro. If that was enough for you, you wouldn't be watching videos on how to become motivated. All right. I'm not watching videos on how to become motivated. I'm making them for you because I've motivated myself into fucking millions of dollars. So shut up. Hate is not good or bad. It's like a knife. It's not good or bad. It's how you use it. It's just a tool. You can use a knife to go on a fucking crime spree, or you can use a knife to chop up food that you're cooking for a school of orphans. One is awful. One is great. That's how you use it. We're going to use hate in a positive way where we transmute it into something that actually propels us towards our goals. And the beauty of it is it makes you invincible. Every time somebody hates on you and they, these won't be the last people who ate on you. Believe that every time somebody hates on you, every time somebody crosses you, it becomes a good thing because it gives you more fuel. Every time Greg Doucette makes a video about me, it's like, oh man, that's fantastic. Now I got more fuel for my list. Hey, this shit was getting stale and it makes you invincible. And the only way to punish them is more success, more winning, but you also need to list the great. I want you to imagine a version of you that accomplished all your goals. This motherfucker is killing it. All your goals, your physical goals, your financial goals, relationship goals. This guy, he's accomplished all this shit. Make a list of all the habits and attributes that version of you would have. What time does that motherfucker wake up? How much goon in does he do? How much world of war craft is he, is he playing? Or does he, does he read? Does he study? Does he work on his business? You know, does he track his macros? Does he hit the gym or does he skip workouts? Write all the attributes that that version of you has to have to accomplish your goal and look at that every day and really visualize it. What's going to happen is once you start acting in congruence with the attributes you put on your list of great, what you'll notice is you're going to get like positive feedback from that. You're going to start to feel good about yourself. Oh, because you'll realize, oh, it looks like I'm moving towards becoming this version of myself that I, that I've been imagined. Once you start acting in congruence with it. And every time you feel like you want to fucking do some shit that doesn't help you accomplish your goals, look at the list of hate and just imagine how happy that bitch would be if you didn't accomplish your goals or how fucking awesome it would be to flex on that hoe, man. Whoever is on your list of hate and list of great. After repeated exposure to this, what's going to happen is you're going to actually change your motivation. Now you'll start associating pleasure with hard work, with eating right, working out, with working on your business, with studying, and you'll start associating pain with anything that prevents you from accomplishing your goals, chasing hoes, video games, recreational drugs. People look at me and they think, oh man, you're so disciplined, but it's like, it's not discipline. I've changed my association with pain and pleasure to the point where I hate myself if I wake up past six. Like I literally hate myself if I don't put in work every day, even on my birthday, if I'm not working. It would take discipline for me to not work out. That would take discipline. And it's only because of, I changed my association with pain and pleasure, which means it's not discipline anymore. It's like I'm motivated to do these things. I want to do these things because I want to be this person on my list of great. And I need to shit on the haters because I can't punish them physically anymore. Motherfuckers would be excited if I punched them because they get sued. And I just learned from Wes Watson, you can't hit your girl. I would never hit mine. I love mine. She'd be cooking them keto. I'm using less discipline than you. Like if we did the same thing every day and there was like positive things that would help us accomplish our goals, I would be using way less discipline than you because of this. Next, after that, now we need repeated exposure to this. Here's how you're going to implement it. You're going to look at your list of hate and list of great every morning and every night. You're going to wake up looking at the list of hate and list of great. I'm not bullshitting you every morning and every night. That's why you're keeping on your phone, right? You got your phone next to you. Some of you watching this on your phone. You might want to set an alarm every few hours to look at it. For me, it's like sometimes I'd be feeling like, damn, I want to do something else. I go over my list of hate and list of great. I'm hyped to do the thing after that. It's like instant motivation. It's almost like a shot of caffeine. You know, one thing you could do with your list of great. It was a while ago. I had my boy fly with Johnny Tye. He was my video editor at the time, but he was also good with graphic design, almost like K-pop, but Chinese. C-pop. I was like, yo, fly with Johnny Tye. I want you to take this image of me. I want to be holding these two trophies. This trophy is the YouTube button for 1 million subs. This one is a ClickFunnels award making $10 million from one of your funnels. I said, yo, fly with Johnny Tye. Make that for me. He made that for me. I printed it out and I put it on my wall and I looked at it every day. That's the trophies right here. And the ClickFunnels one is in my other office. I got both of them things, right? Here's what I think about vision boards. I don't think they're magic. What I think is they help with the motivation because if you visualize this thing and you imagine every day after time, you'll want to do the thing. You can take that image and put it at the top of your list of great. You don't have a K-pop demon hunting video editor, but you do got AI, so you don't even need one. Go to Gemini or Google AI Studio. I like Google AI Studio because it doesn't leave a watermark, but you can do it in Gemini, whatever. So what you want to do is, get a picture of yourself. I don't have to do this, but you might have to say, make him more ripped and muscular. You might have to do that. I wouldn't have to do that, but I'm going to do that just for y'all. So y'all can see what it looks like. Because like, this is, this was the actual image. That's, that's plenty ripped and plenty muscular, but you guys might have to, you know, you ain't got no motivation. That's how you ended up here. Boom. All right. Okay. Now he's more, now I'm more risk and muscular. Let's just say that's what I wanted. Right. And I'm saying, you know, whatever your goals are, right? You may not want them same fucking trophies, right? But say, yo, put him in front of a, a waterfront mansion with a Lambo in the front. Let's go with that. See what we come up with. All right. There we go. Close enough. You know what I'm saying? Yo, pin this shit to the top of your motherfucking, your list are great. And then visualize it. You know, that's how you're going to look. That's the kind of life you're going to be living, man. The hurricane in front of the oceanfront mansion. You know, once you look at this everyday visualize, you're going to become more motivated, but now you've got to do things. And I feel like there's two areas you need to focus on. Area number one is your health and fitness. And area number two is going to be your income. Most problems that men have can be solved or at least drastically improved by making a bunch of money and getting in amazing shape. So those should be goals. So like, if you've never been in amazing shape, there's no way for me to explain to you how much it benefits your life. So we're going to focus on those two things. And when it comes to amazing shape, boom, what do you got to do? You're going to have to work out obviously, but more important than that is diet. You may not have the motivation to eat the way you're supposed to, to accomplish your goals, right? And, or to abstain from these fools you're addicted to. Put it on your list of hate, list of great. Every time you want, you want, you got a craving for that bullshit. You want to eat some candies and cakes like a child. Yeah. The haters want you to eat that cake, man. But the man, you know, when he look at his list of great, it's like, does that guy do it? When you look at this image of you that you got in your list of great, is this motherfucker eating cookies and cakes all day? Listen, you can put the woman you want. You know what I'm saying? Let's say you want a girl like, like mine, set obtainable goals, bro. Let's say you want, let's say you want a girl like mine, man. Yo man, does some man eat cookies and cakes, man? Or does he look like this? Just think about all the things you want. Is the cookies and cake going to help you accomplish that? And here's the thing. What you don't want to do is to be easy on yourself. Here's where all this shit can fall apart. You have to be hard on yourself. Pause. What I mean by that is a lot of times people be like, oh man, I can just eat one. Oh, one time won't hurt. No nigga. That's not how it works. What was really happening is you give into temptation and then you justify it with that bullshit. The problem with giving into temptation is its habit for me. If you have temptation, you're like, oh, one time won't hurt. And you start eating that shit. You gave yourself a reward. Think about that. How do you train animals? Let's say you got a dog. The dog does some shit you think is fucking dope. Get that motherfucker treat, man. Good job, Emilio. You killed that shit. And then what is it? The dog start doing that shit more because he knows you get a treat for him. That's how you train all animals. That's how they train fucking dolphins at the aquarium. Man, you see a dolphin jumping through hoops and fire. So if you give yourself a treat for giving into your temptation, what do you think's going to happen next time you encounter that stimuli of temptation? Yeah, you're going to do it again. It's going to be easy to do the game because you've been training yourself. You gave yourself a treat for it. So the first time, yeah, one time won't hurt, but it ain't going to be one time, bitch nigga. It ain't never been one time, ho. That's why you fat now. It's never been one time. You got to be hard on yourself. The reason you are inconsistent is because you accept inconsistency for yourself. Once you stop accepting inconsistency, it'll become easy. Once you put a line in the sand, hey, this is who I am now. Look on your list of hate and list of great. How would the haters feel if you started saying that one time won't hurt shit to yourself? They'd be like, yeah, no, one time won't hurt. Let's do it once, man. That's the shit predators say. What'd you used to say to the girl in high school? Man, just the tip, you know, just, right? That's the shit motherfucking predators say. Just smoke a little weed. It won't hurt you. Just once more. And you saying it to yourself. You're like, no, this is what I do. Like when I quit smoking, drinking, you know, recreational drugs, all that shit. I don't do that shit sometimes. I don't do that shit ever. I don't eat candy and cake sometimes. I don't do that shit ever. I'm at my son's birthday party. I'm cutting the cake for the children and the fat parents. Make no mistake. They was fat parents eating the cake. I'm passing out cake. They was like, yo, you're not going to eat any cake. At first I was almost offended. I was like, what, you think I'm a fucking bitch ass nigga like you? You fucking know who you're talking to? I didn't say that. I was like, oh, no, no, thanks, man. I'm good. I want to make sure y'all have enough. You eating like a fucking child. What also helps you is if you do little reframes, like I say to myself, candy is for women and children. Like I say that shit all the time. Now I believe that shit. The truth is you can be a man and eat a cookie. Eating cookies don't make you homosexual. It's fine. I just say that to myself because I'm like, that is just part of who I am. Nope. Nope. Candy is for women and children. I'm good. That's not who I am. Be fucking hard on yourself. Look at your list of hate and list of great. That's what I do when I'm supposed to abstain from something and maybe I want to do it. I look at my list of hate and list of great and I start to like, yeah, I don't want that shit. That shit is fucking gay. And over a certain time, you start to believe it when it comes to the money. The two ways you're going to make money is either with your own job or starting your own business or investing, or maybe it's a combination of three. I teach people how to grow their online fitness businesses. Some of these people, they do it full time. Some people just like to do it. They keep their job. I have some students making five, 10 K a month. That's on the low end on a high end. I have some students. I mean, one of my students, uh, Kelly Nicole fit. She did $2 million last year as an online trainer. I don't have time to go into like what it takes to get money right now. However, this Sunday at 2 PM Eastern standard time, I'm doing a live training where I'll show you how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. I made my first million as an online trainer while I was working multiple jobs during the recession. Oh, eight, Oh nine. If you want to learn how you can grow your online fitness business, I'm sure you use AI to grow your following, get more sales so you can make more money. And I'm sure you had to use AI to actually help you train your clients. So they get amazing results. I'm gonna give you all the game a hundred percent for free this Sunday at 2 PM. Eastern standard time, click the link in the description and I'll show you how let's go.