 e teach this because I started my online fitness business almost 20 years ago and I made multi seven figures. Now I teach people how to grow their online fitness businesses. I've taught over 15,000 people how to grow online fitness businesses and I'm going to show you how to do it right now. I'm going to give you the four skills you need to master in order to do this and I'm going to lay out a whole game plan for you. Let's jump right into it. All right so there's four skills you need. The first one is marketing. Listen I was diagnosed with dyslexia a long time ago when I was a child and if I can get rich with mental problems imagine what you can do if you got a regular brain that should be inspiring you. If you make fun of me for it that's basically a hate crime. You will be punished not necessarily by me but by the Lord. Marketing. So there's a few things you need to understand when it comes to marketing. Before you start marketing before you start thinking about Facebook ads or what you want to post online you got to think what is your niche. So there's a few major niches. This is going to work for any kind of coach even though I focus on teaching people how to grow their own life fitness business. This one work for any kind of coach. There's three major categories. There's health relationships and money. Those are the major categories where people coach in but within those niches there are sub niches right. So in health we have building muscle or burning fat or building a big old butt or like longevity or you can go even more niche and focus on peptides. You know that's the new thing. All the same guys who are afraid to take the vaccine are super excited to inject non-FDA approved Chinese research chemicals that they bought off the internet. They're super down to inject those but not a vaccine. It's all good. The irony of that has not been lost upon me. Anyway there's a lot of different niches within health. If we go into relationships there's a lot of different niches within relationships right. You can have marriage counselors, pickup artists, people who teach women how to get guys which is always funny to me because all you really got to do shut up and be hot because the bitches need a class on that. Anyway and then there's you know this pickup artist for guys and you know there's all types of different niches within that and then if you go even deep down those niches have sub niches. For example pickup turned into red pill and looks maxing and then there's black pill. Black pill coaches they exist man. Coach your motherfuckers on give it up on getting bitches. Hey man there's a coach for everything and then there's a wealth. There's a business coaches, money-making coaches, financial planners and even within those there's like different kind of coaches right. Like I'm a business coach but within that niche I'm a fitness business coach. People want to start their online fitness business. There's niches within the niches. What I'm going to say is going to apply to everything but we're going to use the fitness example because that's where I have the most domain expertise. As a fitness coach where a lot of people fail is they say yeah man I'm going to teach people how to get in shape but there's way too many fitness coaches online for you to stand out. You have to really narrow down your target market. So you have to niche down even more. Remember the riches aren't in niches. Snitches get stitches money over bitches. I think that was Shakespeare or Confucius who said that. All right. So you got to have the niche and the way I think about the niche is that niche that sounds for niche right. I know it's cool for people to say all types of n-words online now but that stands for niche. So first you want to think of who you want to talk to with the niche right. What problem do you want to help them solve? How are you going to solve that problem? And we want to break this down. So with the who you want to think and this is before we started in marketing. You got to do this work before you start marketing. You can't just start posting yourself doing push-ups and think you're going to get rich. All right. You got to you got to really narrow this shit down first. All right. So first is who in general. I think you need to figure out if you want to market towards men or women. Some people say man I want to market towards both. That's super difficult especially when you're on a small budget. For example if you look at Old Spice if you just looked at it the Old Spice deodorant is in my bathroom. There's a goddamn wolf biting into the name of it. You can just look at that and tell that's for men. Women typically don't buy hygiene projects with predators attacking the logo. I'm sure there are exceptions like maybe women who play for the WNBA. That's kind of shit they're into right. In general. I'm not trying to say women can't have deodorant like that. You get canceled for saying women can't do something. You hoes can do whatever you want. Don't let no one tell you you can't do that shit. But then you can look at secret deodorant. It's got pastel colors. There might be a flower on the goddamn deodorant. It look like Easter bunny colors. You can just look at it and tell one's made for men and one made for women. They're made by the same company. Procter & Gamble. They're just different brands and the ingredients are almost the same. Especially if you get like the fresh scent. Those scents will be identical. The ingredients will be almost exactly identical. But they still smart enough to know this billion dollar company is smart enough to know that it's difficult to market to men and women simultaneously. Like think about it. What color would it be if it was for men and women? What would you call it? Unisex shit is difficult. So you need to think men or women. And because and they also think different. They're in the different shit in general. Like my girl be watching, you know, them shows where they get a bunch of motherfucking oily people together on an island and then they start fucking each other. Presumably that's what that shit is about, man. Whore Island TV. I really watch this either live sports or shows where they're talking about sports. She's not into that shit. Like we're just in the different shit and that's okay. Hey, ladies, you can watch live sports too. Don't let no of these guys tell you that hoes can't do the same shit dudes can do. All right. You can do whatever you want, bitch. Don't let them tell you, you can't. So you need to think who men or women, right? So when I first started my fitness business, I said, I'm going to focus on men. No did I was going to focus on men, but then you need to pick an age range of people who you want to talk to. Right? So the age range for me, I said, all right, I'm going to focus on this was like years ago. Right? So I said, I'm going to focus on men 20 to 30. No did he. The reason you want to have a 10 year age range is because, you know, I'm 43 now. I know you can tell by how mature I am at 43. I don't think the same way I thought at 23. I don't necessarily think the same way I thought at 33, the marketing I responded to back then is not the same marketing I would respond to now as an adult. Then you need to think about what problem you want to solve. And you want to really narrow down like the smallest problem you can solve. One of my boys, he's a super successful online trainer. His name is booty King on Instagram and booty King only helps women get a bigger, but he's doing God's work, but that's all he focuses on. He doesn't care if a chick want to live longer or be an athlete or nothing. It's only about building a bigger, but if you want that, you go to the booty King, right? He specialized and he became a specialist instead of a generalist. So what I did is I focused on helping these men get ripped. And when I say get ripped, I was using their language. And as a trainer, I knew they wanted to be muscular with low body fat, but I wanted to use their language. I don't want to use trainer jargon. Cause then the only people who would respond to my marketing was trainers. I want to use regular guy jargon. And here's where it gets important. Why does this guy want to get ripped? This guy, boom. Why does a man age 20, 30 get ripped? Yeah, you guessed it. Women. In fact, it's very difficult for a man this age to think about anything else. He probably does almost everything to get women, right? If women didn't exist, this mother would just be sleeping under their bridge happy, right? You know what I'm saying? But as a result, because of biology, you know, he, he wants to get ripped to get women, but you see this changes as the demographic change. If this was 40 to 50, it wouldn't be the, why would change? It wouldn't be to get women. It would be like longevity. A lot of times I'm doing cardio and working out just so I don't get tired running around with my son at the playground or at the dodge ball arena. It's an arena. When I get in there, kids are going to be leaving crying. I'm taking no prisoners while the fat dads sit on the sidelines being fat. Cause they too tired. Now I got to teach this man's son about how difficult life can be when you want the wrong side of history. And that's what's about to happen to him. Anyway, the why changes and the why changes of the gender too. So when you change the who you can have the same, what, but the why will change. And this is very important. If you watch any of my like very old videos from like 10, 15 years ago, you'll notice that there was a lot of like, you know, women working out with me. You know what I'm saying? A lot of women, it was always surrounded by women that wasn't to get women to watch my content. It was because I knew what this guy wanted. Pause. I'm trying to give him what he wanted. No did he, you know what I'm saying? And I built a large male fan base off of that. And then you want to think about how, right? So you want to have a unique mechanism, something unique to you. So for example, what I did at the time, like 10 years ago, I started being keto. I've been keto for 10 years in a row. Back then I was doing intermittent fasting plus hit cardio. Now think about this. That was my mechanism. That was how I helped men age 20 to 30 get ripped. So think about this. There's a lot of trainers, probably millions of trainers online, but how many of them focus on helping men age 20 to 30 get ripped with intermittent fasting and hit cardio? It's not many. It's like now I've become a specialist. You get what I'm saying? It's very important because if you're a generalist, it's going to be difficult for you to stand out. When you become a specialist, now you stand out and it's easy for you to separate yourself from all the competition. In fact, there's not as much competition because you're not trying to get everybody. You're going after a very narrow slice of the market. This is what you need to do as a coach. You need to figure out who you want to help, what problem you want to help them solve. Focus on one problem and then really talk about how you want to talk about how your mechanism, whatever you specialize in, helps them solve this problem. You also need to, in your marketing, you have to attack the why, right? So let's say you wanted to change the who to men age 50 to 60. Now we want to talk about longevity. In your marketing, you probably want to have yourself being fit, playing with your grandkids or something. And this person will see you doing that, embodying their dream. It'll be like, oh shit, I need to do what he's doing. This is very important. So you got to have this first. Before you start marketing, you got to have your niche down. Who you want to help, what problem you want to help them solve, and how you're going to help them solve that problem is very important because otherwise you're just going to be throwing up content and it's not going to land with anybody. Now here's the thing. As you get bigger, pause, what's going to happen is you can start to expand your niche. You want to think of it like an arrow. In general, the point is very sharp because it'll penetrate, right? But then once it penetrates pause, then it spreads out and that's what you can do. That's the first thing we need to do. We need to niche down. Now, once you have that, now you want to start making content that explains how your mechanism, your how, the how you picked will help them accomplish that goal and hit their why. It's very important. That's what your content has to be about. Especially if you sell coaching, this is something that's important about coaching. To sell coaching, you have to embody their why. Nobody's going to hire a homeless success coach. Nobody's going to hire a dating coach when you got no hope. You want to be the embodiment of it. You want to be living their why. It's very important. Here's the next thing we need to do. Mark, we need to start posting content. And especially as a coach, you want to make the most money on Instagram and Facebook. You can still post on TikTok and YouTube, but that's going to be more branding than anything else. The reason is because Facebook and Instagram have a DM functionality, especially Instagram. What you want to do, you want to post content, specifically reels, maybe even carousels, but reels and multiple reels a day. And the reason why is the CEO of Instagram came out and said, the more you post, the faster you grow. He said it. So you're going to post content to help them accomplish their goals, solving problems for them in the content. You're going to tell them what they need to do. Don't worry about telling them too much. In fact, give them as much game as possible. The way I'm giving you game right now, because two things, one, it's the implementation that they're going to have difficulty doing. They're not going to hire you to learn what to do. They're going to hire you to help with the implementation, right? Nobody's hiring coaches for knowledge. You can get knowledge from books, chat GPT, but working with a coach is different and it's more effective. And there's a reason Luke Skywalker ain't read about how to use the space magic. You know, now he had to go train in the swamp with Yoda. Yoda was teaching him how to use the space magic. Next thing you know, he finishes training. He hops out, kills his dad, fucks his sister, saves the universe. Happy ending. But he didn't just read about it, right? You can read a book about swimming, man, but they ain't going to make you Michael Phelps. You know, you only need a coach, right? If you're serious about taking it to the next level, like I'm not saying books aren't helpful. You know, I'm an avid reader, very prolific digester of the literary works, but the big gains I've made in progress is like I've hired coaches to help me. So you're going to sell the implementation, which you can give away all the knowledge. Don't try to sell knowledge. You're selling implementation. And one thing you could do to really take it to the next level, to get more sales from your social media is give them something free, like a free guide or something and have them like comment a word and you send them a free guide and you can set up like some AI automations where that, where that gets sent to them easy. And you can use AI to help you make the free guides. In fact, I'm doing a live training on Sunday, March 1st at 2 PM, where I will show you how to use AI to grow your online fitness business. It's going to be a hundred percent free. I'm going to break everything down. I'm giving you more games fitness in this video, even though this video is full of game already. Right. But I'm going to really break it down for you. Make sure you register for that. It's going to be live. I'm answering everyone's questions and make sure you have a real roadmap on how to use AI to build your online fitness business. But anyway, you want to give them away something free and then you have AI handle a lot of the DM stuff, right? You want to use AI to put together your free guides. And then you want to use AI automations to actually send them the free guides and then use AI to actually book them on, on your calendar. The way you sell coaching online is right. We can go to sales. Sales is the most important. If you're not making sales, then you ain't got a business. You got a hobby. The way you're going to make sales is typically via zoom. If it's high ticket, if you're selling like $5 shit, whatever, man. But you know, I teach people how to sell high ticket and the way you make sales for high ticket sales, it's got, it's going to have to be over zoom or something like that because nobody's going to give you like a thousand dollars or even $500 from a link in your bio like that. People don't behave like that. You know, like I'm rich and I never hit the link in nobody's bio and gave them a thousand dollars for nothing. You know what I'm saying? Like you want to get on a sales call and you can use a lot of AI automations to book those sales calls on your calendar. Then you get on the calendar and then you sell them, right? It's very important. So you got to learn sales as well, right? And I'm going to teach you more at the free training and make sure you register for that. But sales is very important. If you can master sales, man, it covers up a lot of sins, you know, cause you don't even need to have a huge following to make money in sales. Let's say you wanted to make six figures a year, just 25 clients paying you $80 a week. You kept an average of 25 clients for 52 weeks a year. That's $104,000 per year. That's like entry level doctor shit, right? And you only have to have 25 clients. $80 a week is kind of cheap, right? The average gym charges about $100 an hour per session. Almost every time you're in a gym, you see somebody working out with a trainer, they paid a hundred dollars for that session, right? You got to see them like two, three times a week to get results. So now we're talking to $300 a week. You're charging $80 a week. And I think online training is a better for fitness. It's better than in-person training because in-person trainer training, they only work with you the hour in the gym. They don't help you with your diet. I know I was an in-person trainer for many years, working some of the best fitness clubs in the country. Diet's the most important thing. You can't out train a bad diet, but you can out diet bad training. What I teach people to do is actually track their diet. It's very important that you track their diet. And not only do you give them a workout plan and a diet plan, they can get a workout plan and a diet plan, but they're not going to do it unless somebody's keeping them what? Accountable, right? Make sure we give accountability. I think that goes more into coaching, like the actual coaching. You have to really help people. And the main way you're going to help people is with accountability. So here's what you're going to do. And you can set up AI to do all this stuff. You can set, you can have AI, you know, help, help you make the workout plans for them. I used to have to do this by hand. When I first started online training, it would take me fucking hours to write a workout, to write a diet plan for these people with a grocery list and all this stuff. It would take hours, but now we can split that up in AI with a second, just because we give them, it doesn't mean we're going to do it. Right? So we got to keep them accountable. So what you're going to do is you're going to check every day to see if they hit their macros and their calories every day, right? And every day you're going to text them. If they did hit their calories, if they hit the numbers and you'd be like, yo man, good shit yesterday. Congratulations. Listen, let's keep up this momentum for the next day. And you're going to check it every day. If they didn't, you can be like, Hey man, what the fuck? Why are you wasting my time? Depending on whatever your disposition is, you might be calm or you might be like, Hey, Hey buddy, what happened yesterday? How can I help you hit your macros today? Let's get back on track or anything in between extremes me where I might throw the phone. You might be very nice and kind. I don't know. We're all different anyway, but what's going to happen is you start to keep them accountable and they know they got an answer to somebody. The reason it's going to be difficult for AI to mimic that part because people can ignore machines. You can ignore notification on your phone or something. But when, when your trainers texting you and if you don't respond to this text, that motherfucker calls you, blows you up. It's difficult to not respond to him. Right. And this is why online trainers get better results for their clients, the in-person trainers, because in-person trainers don't focus on the diet at all. They don't have incentives to, cause they're only getting paid by the hour. Much like a prostitute. I've heard is what they tell me, pay a prostitute by the hour. She don't care what you do when you leave. What did Charlie Sheen say? He said, I don't pay him to have sex with him. I pay him to leave when I'm done having sex with him. Anyway, that is the most important thing. Now how this works with other kinds of coaching is you're going to have to set up some other accountability program for them. Something to keep them accountable, some sort of tracking mechanism. With AI, you can speed all this stuff up, right? There's different tactics. You can use different AIs, different automations you can use to actually set this up. So it works better. The last thing is retention because you want to keep clients. You want to be able to retain clients. So you want to get them great results. That's from coaching, but then you want to retain them. If you can retain your clients now, every time you make a sale, you don't just make a sale, make money once you gave yourself a raise, you increased your monthly income. This is where the real money is. Like my students who make over a million dollars a year. I have some students who made over a million dollars a year with their online fitness business. They have great retention. And that's very important. Part of it comes from not only getting them good results from coaching, but setting new goals for them. Because a lot of times I remember when I was an in-person trainer, people would get a trainer to get in shape for summer. They get in shape, then they quit, but then they get fat again. And then they might come back later, but they quit when they get in shape. With online training, what you can do is, is like, as they start approaching their goal, you want to set bigger goals for them. Because if you've been working out for any time, you know that none of us are ever satisfied or happy with our bodies. We all got insecurity about something, right? So you want to keep setting goals for them and keep pushing them to get better. What happens is you're probably the only person in their life who's pushing them and you can retain them. You can build like a friendship, the kind of relationship where they'll probably stop tracking their macros and shit without someone keeping them accountable. So we sell the accountability and we can retain those clients for longer. You can make a million dollars. I have students who've made over a million dollars online training. It's not a whole lot of them. I'm going to be honest with you, but I've helped thousands of people get to 10K a month, 20K a month, even like 50K a month. But there's only been a handful of them who's got to like, like a hundred K a month, you know what I mean? Because the business changes at that point. With any coaching business around 30K, that's when you have to start hiring people, right? You might have to start hiring people to help with the content. You might have to hire people to run your ads. You might have to hire people to coaches underneath you, right? To a million dollar business is way different than a 30K a month business. They're like two different animals. At that point, after around 30, you're going to have to start hiring people to help with the marketing, hiring people to help. Maybe you start hiring your sales people, right? Maybe you hire other coaches underneath you. And now you've got a business where you're just like the face of it, right? The people who get to a million dollars a month, what they're doing is they're probably just in front of the camera, making content and managing their teams and their teams manage everything else, right? Or more around 30K a month is when you start needing to hire people. It used to be 10K enough, but it was all you could do as a one person business. But now with AI, the stuff we're going to learn about in the class, you can push that up to like 30K a month now with just one person, which is cool. If you want to learn more about that, hit the link in the description, sign up for the free training I'm doing Sunday, March 1st. I'll break the whole thing down for you. All right, let's get it. Bye.