Yo, what up? What up? It's been Brandon Carter. I'm out here with my man Hash Incredibles. Hash from Incredibles. And um he does like he does physique competitions. He goes hard with the calisthetics and everything. And a lot of people he's also moving, right? A lot of people have been asking me about uh how to train during Ramadan and I don't really know [\h__\h] about that. So I had to I had to ask a Muslim friend. You know what I'm saying? So what advice would you give to somebody who's trying to an athlete or or was still training through RAM? Should they still train you or how they should eat any tips you have? Well, the way it works is that it's from 4:30 to 8:30. So you can't eat or drink for about more than 12 hours. So that's a lot of hours. What I usually do is that at night time I won't go for it cuz you could eat from 8:30 on to 4:30. So in the morning time I'm usually like lazier, not trying to, you know, spend so much energy. At night time is when I eat a lot. But you have to eat healthy though cuz I know Muslims when they eat it's a feast, man. It's like Can you sleep during the day? Me? Yeah. Can you Can you just sleep? But you got to pray though. You can't. You got to wake up. So can you kind of set like a pray could you set like a pray? Yeah, that's what I do. Just sleep. Just sleep and just pray. That's it. Yo, you can't drink water either. Like cuz I've done intermittent fasting. I fasted 16 hours. You know, I fasted 24 hours, but I still drink water, coffee. They can't do nothing. You can't really have none of them out. So that's why you get reps and all that. I mean, you can you guys work out. Should they work out during you got the will for it? When did you wish they would say at least an hour before you know we start opening the class? Oh, so they should they should they should work out fast. an hour before you uh how you going to work out and not drink no water, no preworkout. I've done it. I used to play basketball. I used to do it hand the will. So So you just make sure you get you you make sure you stay extra hydrated during during the the feeding period. That's right. And then it closes at 4:30. So you're want to get you want to get everything in. So just drink all drink [\h__\h] a ton of water. That's so you don't have to worry about being dehydrated. do, you know, throughout the night cuz you you open at 8:30. So, you have the time to drink from 8:30 to 4:30. So, that should be your, you know, hour like every 3 hours you pick a meal and and drink about that time. Should they focus on It sounds to me like if I was doing I would focus on just getting ripped like I wouldn't try to make significant gains from that period. Or do you think it's possible you just get all the calories that you need to make gains during the possible? So, all right. So basically what you're saying is Ram even Ramadan ain't an excuse. No excuses. No excuses. You got to go hard even during Ramadan man. Did you see that? No excuses. No excuse. My man he's out here. Ramadan's tomorrow. Got to get ready. That's what's up man. All right. So all my all our Muslim friends, man. Hope that helps. All right. Next week, my man. Thank you, bro.