Are you not entertained? Is this not why you are here? Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. Today I want to talk about the top five muscle building foods. foods that will help you put on a little bit of that muscle mass. You know what I'm saying? Foods that help you get swole. Uh these are just my top five list. You know, this is not scientific. This is, you know, kind of just based on preference, you know. So, you might have a different top five. If so, put in the link below, man. Let me know what you think, man. But anyway, let's get it. So, number one, I'm saying eggs. I love eggs. Eggs have a ton of protein, low carbs, you know, omega-3s. What's so great about them is the eggs have cholesterol. I eat the whole egg, the yolk, too, cuz the the yolk has the healthy fats. The yolk actually has a lot of nutrition, the healthy fats, the uh a lot of protein, and most importantly, has cholesterol, right? And cholesterol is not bad for you. It's good for you. I'll put a link in description of some studies showing that that cholesterol is actually really good for you. It's healthy for you. And not only that, cholesterol is actually considered is actually classified as a steroid, right? Because cholesterol helps build boost testosterone levels. So the more tes the more cholesterol you're ingesting, the higher your testosterone levels would be. In fact, your body needs cholesterol to build testosterone. And that's why eggs are on number one on the list. How many eggs do I eat a day? Listen, you guys are all going to think I'm [\h__\h] crazy. I already know the comments are going to say it's going to kill you. I eat eight eight eggs a day. Eight eggs a day, man. I don't even cook them. I drink them raw in the shake. I have a the video about the I'll post a link to the video about my my the chole the cholesterol the the the my 15 1 1500 calorie shake with four raw eggs in it. I drink it every day. Oh man, raw eggs going to get you salmonella. You guys are [\h__\h] scared of everything. So whatever. I'll let the fearmongers type in the comments about how this is going to kill you. But it's not. I get a checkup twice a year. My levels are fine. Everything's good, man. I haven't had I've never had salmonella. But anyway, eggs are on top of the list. Number two, nuts. What kind of nuts? These nuts. Almonds. I buy them in bulk. As you can see, almonds are a great source of protein. There's a lot of studies that show that nuts help boost testosterone levels. And again, you need testosterone to build muscle. Oh, they're also high calories. They have they're calorically dense, right? So, if you're trying to build muscle, you need more calories as well. And I eat at least 40 almonds a day. At least 40 almonds a day. Oh [\h__\h] What's next? Whey protein. A lot of people say, man, uh, whey protein is not necessarily food, so it shouldn't be on the list. But you got to understand, man, whey protein is made from milk. It's a byproduct of the of the cheese manufacturing process. It's just as natural as cheese is. It's just as natural as cheese is. And it's totally safe for people of all ages, right? Insure has whey protein on. Old people are drinking it. babies drink. You know, infants drink whey protein. Yeah. Whey protein is one of the main ingredients in baby formula. Gerber, if you go on Gerber's website right now, they're bragging about how their formula is all whey protein. So, if your mom says, "Oh, I don't want I always get emails from people saying their mom won't let them take uh whey protein." They're like, "Yo, your mom might have already given you whey protein, right? There's a baby drinking whey protein right now. I know you're tougher than a [\h__\h] baby." Number four, beef. any kind. Uh, you know, I like to get ground steak or whatever or steak. You get steak, ground steak, any kind of beef. Uh, you know, I I don't really eat a lot of [\h__\h] chicken. I know a lot of other like fitness guys eat chicken breast all the time, but I'm not one of those guys. I like to eat beef paws. Beef has creatine in it actually, you know, and creatine helps you build muscle. I don't really want to get into it. I just I just don't like chicken that much, you know. I know some of you thinking, "Oh, I never heard a black man say that before." Well, you're racist. We don't all like chicken. Number five, milk. There was a point where I got in college, I got big, man. Just drinking a gallon of milk a day. I swear to God, I didn't have a lot of [\h__\h] money. I was a poor college kid and I would just buy a gallon of milk every day and make sure I drank the whole gallon every day. No supplements, just a the meal plan at school and then I would supplement that meal plan with a gallon of milk every day. You know, I don't know if I would do it now because as I'm older, I don't I don't know if I can handle that much dairy. And obviously, if you're lactose intolerant, this is not going to work. Some people going to say, "Hey, what about if you're lactose intolerant?" I'm like, "Well, this is not for you, right? Everything's not going to work for everybody. It's called personal training because it's personal. You got to do what works best for you." And that's it. That's just my personal top five. I'm not saying it's the best. I'm not saying it is gospel or that there's no other foods that I that are better. You know, I'm probably leaving a few out, but that's my personal top five. If you have a different top five, let me know what it is, man. Post it in the description. All right. Are you not entertained?