 e coach. I have made millions in sales myself. I teach my students how to do sales. And I hired a sales coach, really famous one, to help me refine my sales scripts that I get in my students. I'm like, let's make them better. I paid him like 25 grand. He promised a lot. He wasn't just going to help me with the sales scripts. That's the main thing I wanted. But he made all these big promises and stuff he's going to do. Right. Problem is this guy had went to prison for scamming. I'm going into this knowing that this guy is a convicted scammer. Here's the thing. When you're dealing with a scammer, you probably don't want to deal with people who are like known to scam, but you can do it as long as you know what you're dealing with. Some of y'all have been with or before. What did Snoop say? You don't love that. And that's where guys mess up. They either like fall in love with or they get pregnant. You got to know what you get into. If you're going to walk in those treacherous waters. That's what I was doing. I was swimming in treacherous waters, right? Because I was like, all right, I'm making a deal with a scammer. He's probably going to scam me. My job is to make sure I get 25 K worth of value out of this. Even if it's not what he promised, I got to get 25 K worth of value out of it. And there's a gamble because a scammer, the scammers want to scam. That's what they do. It's in the name, right? It's like door to explore. She used to see the motherfucking swiper. What the fuck you think he's going to do? He's going to swipe. So anyway, I'm chilling with the scammer. I'm at his crib. I say, as long as I get these scripts improved, that'd be 25 K worth of value for me. All the other shitty promise. I'm going to look at that as a bonus. We definitely improved when we took him to the next level. I made way more than 25 K off those scripts, right? And all the other shitty promise got none of it. It was like he legit scam, right? It's fine. I got what I needed. No hard feelings. I say all that to say this. If you are MAGA, do you feel like you got scammed? I'm agnostic politically. You know, I have some conservative viewpoints. I have some liberal viewpoints. I'm down to vote Democrat. I'm down to vote Republican, but I ain't never been MAGA. Those of you guys who are MAGA, do you feel like you got scammed? Because you definitely got scammed. Like for sure you got scammed. You got scammed last time too, right? Mexico didn't pay for that wall. We were supposed to have no new wars. Prices was going to come down. My taxes got lower. So what up? Shout out to you, Donnie. Yours didn't, unless you rich like me. There's a few ballers watching this shit. But here's the thing, man. I knew he was going to scam y'all because I lived in New York for 15 years. Back when he used to live in New York, he's from New York. I used to work across the street from Trump Towers. One of the product stores I used to work at when I was security, right across the street from Trump Towers. I knew he was a scammer. Just like the scammer I worked with, he's a convicted scammer. In 2016, he had a settlement. He had to pay $25 million because he scanned people with his Trump university. I guess a bunch of people didn't know it was a scam. He also got convicted of a found liable of a New York civil fraud case. Like he been scamming. I think y'all got scammed, MAGA. Maybe I'm wrong. Like if you MAGA in the comments, let me know. If you feel like you got what you voted for, you know, how do y'all feel? It's only been a year, right? But everything is more expensive. One of my boys, I'm not going to say his name, but he was super hype about Trump. He's really rich because he failed for that shit when Trump said he was going to get rid of income tax. No income tax. And we want to have tariffs pay for it. And I was like, listen, bro, that sounds like bullshit. I'm going to be honest with you. It'd be dope to not pay income tax. I agree. Like if you know anything about economics, I don't think tariffs are going to be able to do that. Every economist was pretty unanimously said, yo, man, this tariff shit is stupid. I don't know about y'all, but on the 15th of this month, we all going to have to pay income tax, right? My man feels ripped off because that was the only reason he voted for Trump. He got scammed. Do you feel like you got scammed or not? I have another friend. His main thing was, yo, no new wars. We in a war, he got scammed. A war we didn't even need to be in. We over there fighting. Seems as if the Israeli government, we fighting for them. Do you feel like you got scammed? Is it great enough for you yet? I don't know, man. I'm not really happy with a lot of the shit that's happening, but my taxes are low as a result. So I see you dining. You know, I live down South and sometimes, you know, I see a motherfucker in a pickup truck, maybe a monster truck with like two Trump flags. Did that motherfucker get what he, what he asked for? Let me know in the comments. Have you gotten what you, what you voted for? If you are mega, are you winning enough yet? He said, we want to win so much. We're going to get tired of winning. Are you tired of winning yet? I don't know, man. It seems like y'all got scammed. Here's the lesson, man. When a motherfucker got a history of doing some foul shit, you got to proceed with more caution. I don't know if you shouldn't have been as enthusiastic as he was, right? I don't know if you should have believed the promises of a scammer. This is why like guys be so concerned with like chick's body counts, right? Because past performance, because sometimes it's a predictor of a future performance, no? If she was out here hoeing, sucking and fogging, she going to stop just because she with you, man? I don't know, bro. Listen, man. I seen recently how it was like today, I think Joe Rogan and Theo Vaughn, they were pretty disappointed in Trump. I was like, you motherfuckers didn't know, man. All of us in New York who lived around this motherfucker and knew he was a scammer, man, this shit wasn't a secret, but he got you. The thing about like scammers, really good scammers, it's so charismatic, right? The scammer I told you I worked with in the beginning, man, if you was around him, you would love him. He might be one of the most charismatic people I ever met. He's also amoral. I'm not the only person who has a similar story. They're working with him. I don't know if y'all got what y'all wanted. Maybe you did. Maybe you didn't. Maga, have you gotten what you were asking for? Let me know in the comments. I'm just here to ask. Thank you.