Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. We going get in this. I'm going to show you this ab workout that me, Brian, Bella did in the gym. It was uh this was different than our 10 minute or four minute ab workout. This was one where we use heavier weights, not weights, but we used exercises that we could only get less than 20 reps repetitions. So, we we trained it the way we would train the biceps. So, it this is how you get like thicker abs. This like the other stuff makes your abs more ripped. This makes them like thick, you know? My abs look like like eight little fists right here. But before we get in that, I want to show you some transformations, man. I got in my in my email, man. Look at this dude. Look how ripped he got, man. Here's another one I got. Brandon, I want to thank you for your advice. I'm following you. Uh this two-year transformation. There's this other kid says, "Yo, thank you BBC for your vids. Got me shredded and I gained a lot of muscle, you know. Got a few more. I got a ton of these, man. I can do this all day. This kid lost almost 50 lbs. He sent this to me on Instagram. I posted on my Instagram, too. I'll put the link to my Instagram in the description. And then y'all, you already know my transformation, how far I went. You know, that's me. Listen, if you want to make your own transformation, if you're ready for this year to be the year where you really accomplish your goals, we're doing the transformation challenge. The link is in the description. So, make sure you click on that. Check it out. Get get inside, man. Challenge yourself, man. Accomplish what you want to accomplish this year. But without any further ado, let me show you this ab workout. So what we did was we started with leg lifts and we superseted those leg lifts with side to side knee raises. So the leg lifts hit the lower abs and the side to side knee raises hit the obliques. So we each did four sets of that and we just took it to failure. We didn't count in between. We just took it to failure but we couldn't do like a ton of them because that's not exercise when you didn't do 30 or 50. So we weren't doing it for time. Then we went and we did dragon flags followed by hip raises with a twist. Right? So we did dragon flags to failure. Then we did hip raises and then with a twist to work the obliques. So that was a super set as well. Then we went and we did rope crunches. Rope crunches is one of my favorite exercises to build mass and abs cuz we're trying to get that abs thicker. So then we we did rope crunches. Then we did we didn't super set this. We did four sets of rope crunches. And then we did side rope crunches for each oblique. We did each did four sets of that. So we each did four sets of every exercise. We only rested enough time for our turn. You know, we went bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. I like to do ab workouts like this once or twice a week in addition to the other ab workouts that I post this page all the time because the higher rep stuff with the time based ones, that's going to get you cut and ripped up. You know, that's going to help with definition. But if you only do that, you won't build the thickness in your abs. A lot of people don't want to have abs thick as mine. My [\h__\h] is extreme, right? So maybe you don't want that. So if you don't want that, stick to the other ones. If you just want to look like an abrompy model or like a lifeguard or something like that, but like you want bodybuilder style abs, then you got to do this as well. Anyway, hope that helps. If you want to check if you want to if you're really serious about getting into shape this year, check out the transformation challenge. Check out the transformation challenge. see other people who have embarked on this journey and succeeded, you know, and you can learn from them and how you can succeed this year and transform your body. This is just a few months, man. This is from April to December, right? Thanks for thanks for sharing your knowledge on intermittent fasting, hit cardio, dude. Lost 60 lbs, man. This dude sent me one off Facebook, you know, Mark Sanchez, he sent it in a comment, you know, did his thing. We got this dude, he did this joint, man, after doing, you know, the full body workouts I recommend. Another screenshot, man. This dude 40 years old, man. 45 years old. I'm sorry. So, it's harder when you're older, man. Pause. Yo, look at this dude. You know, that's just a few months. Oh, there's another one, man. Like, listen. These are people making transformations, man. This is a DM on Instagram. 5 months. That's dramatic change, man. If you're ready to make that kind of change in your life, if you're ready to really transform your body, click the link below. Join the transformation challenge. It's not just going to transform your body. When you put yourself through this type of protocol that it requires you to do something you've never done before, right? To get something you never had before, you got to do something you never done before. And that's going to cause you to grow not only physically, but also mentally, right? It's going to take you to a different place mentally. So, if you can accomplish this, if you can master your body, what else can you master? Right now, you can go out and master other parts of your world. Your relationships, your life, your financial life, your your job, your career, your business, your whatever. But if you can't master yourself, how can you master anything else? Right? That's why we put such emphasis on fitness because mastery of oneself is the most important victory. You know, then you can go out and conquer everything. But it starts here, right? Anyway, join the challenge. Thanks a lot for watching. Peace. How ripped do you want to be? This is a serious question. How ripped do you want to be? What supplement do I use? T-Rex. 100% natural fat burn. It's not a magic pill. Ain't no magic pills, man. If it was a magic pill that you could take it, put in the ground and it'll grow beantock and you go to heaven. I'm not going to try to tell you this is magic. You just eat these pills and you don't get ripped. You got to put in the work. But when you put in the work, you want to make sure you can get the most out of it. And that's what I use T-Rex for.