Heat. Heat. Yeah. Yeah. Uh-huh. It's another episode of that Victory Talk podcast. Mhm. It's going down like a fat girl on roller skates. We're going to talk about building your the money, muscle, and mindset. I'm super excited and and we got a special guest. So, without further ado, let's start the show. Yeah. Yeah. Welcome to another episode of that Victory Talk podcast. I am your host Big Brandon Carter, BBC King Keto, the king of ketosis, gymnasium Jesus. Jesus damn Nazioente de la Washington Heights. And I'm joined I'm not alone. I got a special guest. We're going to introduce him later. So hold on. Hold on. But we got the reoccurring car characters that we have to introduce, man. We got the [\h__\h] best the best podcast producer in the game. Let's go. The homie Nema. What up, man? Let's go. Super excited. Episode 195. 195, man. You know what I'm saying? You the best producer in the game. Thank you. You legend. There's a few. There's a lot of legendary producers in the world, right? We got Harvey Weinstein. He produced classics. P. Diddy Grammy Award. He produces [\h__\h] And Nema, you you know what I'm saying? you up next. You my third favorite producer. All right. Yo, we also got, you know what I'm saying? She don't be on camera cuz if she did, man, y'all would be gooning, right? So, we keep her off camera so y'all can stay [\h__\h] focused, man. It's a Movia. Yes, she's manning the chats. You feel me? She over here. Uh, she gonna be reading your super chats, kicking out the haters. You talk [\h__\h] crazy. She going to ban you. She going to ban you indefinitely. And she Latina, right? So it's in her blood to ruin men's life. That's That's what they do. Everybody knows that. And so she can't wait. She got an itchy trigger finger on the [\h__\h] block button. She going to throw a block party if you come in here talking crazy. All right. So, uh, you know what it is. Hey, we got a special guest. I'm going introduce in a minute. But first, Nemo, we got we got some sponsors. Really? Finally. We got some sponsors. All right. So, the first sponsor is me and the homie Derek Moneyberg. Yo, we doing a free live training Monday 700 p p.m. Eastern Standard Time. It's called the Ten Commandments of Wealth. Moneyberg, my my richest friend. And we just posted a video, the tour of his crib. He had two gyms in his crib, the the [\h__\h] purple phantom, big pimping, you know what I'm saying? And all types of other [\h__\h] baller [\h__\h] and we gonna talk about, you know, uh, invest in investing, stocks, real estate, and business, right? It's gonna be live. I'm flying to Chicago going to the crib, his com the Money Bird compound, and we going to do it live. You do not want to miss out on it. 7:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. You still got time to register. Stop [\h__\h] around, Nemo. What where's the link? Is this the first link? It should be. Yeah, it's the first link. It's the first link. All right. It's the first link. Stop [\h__\h] around. Don't [\h__\h] this up, guys. Don't miss out. All right. Listen then if that weren't enough, you know guys, we've been working on Nema and I have been working on a product secretly. We haven't talked about it much, right? But we've been working on this product that we want to we need to release to the to the public and it's called repellent, right? Thought repellent is the easy to apply spray that keeps the hose away. It's very important. So here's how it works. It was developed by Iranian scientists. The good the good ones. The good ones. Yeah. The friendly v Iranians and not the ones who be on that [\h__\h] Right. So it was Iranian scientists and what they what they did they put together this formula that only affects the DNA of dots, [\h__\h] hoes, ho [\h__\h] skanks, stank hoes, skezers, jezebels, scallwigs, Puerto R and and [\h__\h] with purple hair. All right. So what happens is regular women, they'll they'll smell this [\h__\h] and be like, "Damn, you smell amazing. What is that scent? What's that aroma exuded from your body and you like, "Baby, that's not repelling." Right? But if like one of these nasty hoes try to get next to you, she might go into like an epileptic seizure. She might start foaming at the mouth or something, right? And this is good. You can spray it on yourself before you go out, right? That's what I do. I bathe in this [\h__\h] before I walk the streets of Miami. I can't go on Biscane Boulevard without this [\h__\h] It' be goddamn riot. You know what I'm saying? Sometimes you can spray it around your home too, like a little force field that's impenetrable by hot dots. You know, I remember once we forgot to spray it around the crib and it it looked like the the end scene of I am legend when all the vampires and [\h__\h] was trying to come in the crib and you know it but it was it was it was [\h__\h] with tattoos on the internet. You know what I'm saying? So you don't want that to happen to you. thigh repellent. And this is very important because you see what happened to Shannon Sharp. You see what happened? He was about to get a $100 million deal. Next thing you know, some ho said he did some [\h__\h] You know what I'm saying? We covered it last week. We ain't got to get into You don't want that to happen to you, right? So, thy repellent, all your super chats, all of them go towards development of thy repellent because, you know, I could have went on Shark Tank, you know what I'm I could have went to some virt venture capitalist, but then I would have had to answer to them. I only want to answer to y'all, the dictators. That's why we crowd That's why we crowdfunding it by y'all, right? We wanted to have it out by spring break, but y'all didn't do enough super chat. So, it's your fault, right? So, if you if you we the goal is to have it out by by summer cuz that's that's the breeding season for thighs. Everybody knows that. Now, the FDA says, "Oh, we got to talk about the side effects." So, side effects include, but are not limited to erectile explosions, Brazilian wax, juju, off-white privilege, minor lung explosions, involuntary Wakandan accent. We have to keep the Oo way. Infinity Kidney Stones, Gaza Strip Club. It's the bomb. It's a bomb. All right. NRA memberships, postnut charity, racism flavored teardrops, saber-tooth seaman, lasic eye burglary, Kentucky fried chickenpox, no slave November. It's only one month. If it was like more than one month, then I'd be like, whoa, I don't know if I can do it. But one month is fine. All right. Uh, violent wet dreams and negative affirmations. All right. We're going to have this out by summer if we get enough super chats, guys. It's all small prices to keep the thoughts away. All right. All right, guys. Time to get in the show. Oh, man. We got special guests today, right? We got a special guest today. These guys came on the scene over the last few years, you know. going crazy in the trading and investment community, right? We gonna talk about he he's one of the best traders I know, right? He makes tons of money. We're going to ask him all the questions and you guys can ask him the questions, too, with with super chats. Broke ass. And then and uh he's one of the best traders I've ever met. He's super balling, super cool. Uh my man Jesse Casper. I don't know. Whichever. What's good, man? Hey, what's good, bro? What's going on, man? Chilling, man. YouTube is blowing up, man. Yeah, man. It's a blessing. It's a blessing. Uh it kind of happened random like I was telling you, man. It's just It's funny to like reflecting back on what I thought I would be a YouTuber. Yeah, you got like a quarter million subscribers now. Yeah, it's like 230, I think. Something like that. On the way. Not bad. Quarter million. It's quart million soon. It's lit, man. It's lit. All right. So, listen. Tell me about how did you get into trading? Yeah, man. So, effectively I got in just through crypto. So, I got in a bunch of my friends, well, really one group of my friends told me, you know, like you got to get into crypto. This is like 2016. Okay. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Back then, this dude's like racked up now. That's when Tai Lopez was was pumping that [\h__\h] hard. That was back in [\h__\h] Tai Lopez and uh Bitconnect. Yeah, literally Bitconnect. That's hilarious, you But yeah, most people don't even I know remember that [\h__\h] I'm old school. Most people are just in from co. But I I originally got in in 2016. I had put in like it was like 20 something,000 like low 20,000 turn at 380,000, right? Oh [\h__\h] So then I'm like I'm the [\h__\h] I'm a trader. Yeah. I got this [\h__\h] Yeah. Lost all of it. Not not like at once, but it was like a slow death. You lost 300 over 380 and then some of my own money. Lost it doing what? Just trying to trade because I made it just buying holding, right? Crypto. So it's really not trading. Like a lot of people when they think trading they think investing. Yeah. And big difference. Just two different things. Way different. Yeah. So like I I thought I was a trader but I was really a lucky investor. I just you just threw some money at [\h__\h] at the right time. Yeah. Like it's funny. I was looking back at some of my memories and like like the old pictures, you know, and it was like I had a notebook and I was like writing out what crypto was and [\h__\h] back in Google Chrome even looked different. And I remember I was thinking like I was starting to tell everybody like, "Yeah, I'm a trader. How much money did you put in? 20. It was like 20 something thousand. 20 grand. It was like 20 and some change. It was like one 20,000 deposit and then I had like a couple extra thousand that I got because the way I got into it is I got some crypto for something. I was like, I might as well buy some. This is back when you had to buy on local Bitcoin. You ever know what that was? I wasn't buying Bitcoin back in. I The first time I bought Bitcoin was Coinbase. I think it was 2017. Yeah. Yeah. Coin Coinbase was just on the scene, too. So to buy like large amounts without um triggering certain warnings and we'll get to that later, you know what I mean? But at that time it's all coming together. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I understand cuz that's that's the preferred use case for crypto, right? So um so I bought it in in uh that context. I was trying to stay, you know, but local Bitcoin is essentially you went online and it was like imagine classified ads but from Bitcoin like I had to go to Atlanta and buy it from a dude. Oh, he gave you some Bitcoin for cash. Yeah. Sketchiest, weirdest dude I ever met, bro. He's like a super hippie dude. Like he's probably rich as [\h__\h] now, though. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would hope at least. If he's not, he's probably like hating himself, but we'll see. But, uh, you know, anyways, that that was how I got into it. And I thought I I got all cocky, you know, thought I knew what I was doing. Over the next like two two and a half years, lost all of it. Right. Oh [\h__\h] So, that was what got me hooked, though, because in the ne in that time where I was losing it, I was I had decided I wanted to do it. Mhm. You know, and I wasn't going to give it up. Yeah. And I was addicted too. Like back then it was like some heroic [\h__\h] Really? I was just addicted to gambling, you know? But it worked out, right? Um but then back like I I I wasn't really like serious about it, you know what I mean? Cuz I was making money in other ways. Got into it in 2020 again and actually took it serious this time. Yeah. Like in co like when I cuz I was like trading you started just taking trading seriously. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I was like man everybody's making this money. I didn't even get the bottom of co either you know. So then I was like FOMO. I'm like, "Dude, how are your friends who didn't even weren't involved in this do better than you and you done [\h__\h] up a bunch of money trying to learn this?" So, you know, I I decided I was going to take it serious. I bought a Discord, like a education community, right? And whenever I was in that community, I was ahead of people cuz I had already went through all the psychological trauma. What were you trading at this time? Were you weren't you trading crypto? Crypto futures, though. Crypto. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's like leverage crypto. Yeah. No, I know. So, you was trading like uh Binance. Binance back before it was banned. Ah, all right. before. Well, you had to It was banned, but you could easily use with a VPN. Yeah. And Okay. Okay. Now, you can even get like I have like a Palao ID, like you can become a resident of like another Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's like a $1,000 become a resident. Oh, all right. Yeah. But you could trade. You still trade them. But um anyways, I digress. The uh that was where I started like actually trying to trade like serious and I started learning because before then I didn't even really know what risk management Yeah. was, anything like that. But I got into it serious. I had already went through a lot of the issues. So, I started doing good. Like I was way ahead all these new people that were like how long it take you to get good. Um I mean if you want to be technical five years, okay, but really like one year being serious cuz like 2016 to 2020. It was mainly 2016 to like 2018 I was off and on just being like stupid, right? Like that was where I was trying to trade but I was like I was trading with no leverage. So I was trying to trade like the bare market which Okay. I thought it was like going to keep going up. So I try to buy these altcoins, right? Yeah. Yeah. And even in that time like there was like the ICO boom of like 2017 where like kind of like how meme coins are now but less crazy. So I would hit enough to like keep me afloat, right? Then like chop it away. Got it. Hit enough to keep me chop it away. And then finally they just blew it all right. And then I was putting in my own money too at the time. So um and then in 2021 like whenever I started taking the serious in 2020 by 2021 I was doing really good but I had got over like the I was desensitized to losing money. Um I had committed myself like okay now that you actually know and I was surround I think another big part of it is I was surrounded with people who were actually making a lot of money. Yeah. So I thought it was real now. Yeah. You got you I feel like you need that. Oh absolutely. To be good like lot I don't I don't talk about it a a lot just because you know I feel like people would think it's cap because I'm good at so many things right. I know how that sounds. I just don't know how to say it. But like I've been trading since like 20 trading futures since about 20 2020 like you know cuz there was uh during covid I was in Manhattan and it was locked down. Yeah. Right. So there was nothing to do. I was like all right let me learn how to trade you know I spent I spent a lot lot of time trading. If you followed me like on Instagram you would see I would be posting it you know. And um I did pretty well my first year. I'm like one of the few people I know who was profitable the first year. Not like crazy profitable but profitable but still I mean most people just lose but it's again like you were winning at other points in life. Yeah that's a big deal you know because winning because the thing is bro when it comes down to it there's winners and there's losers like just being honest and like everybody at one point I feel like was a loser. I was a loser at one point and like I would have probably lost at most things and if I got lucky enough to win on the short term I would have lost in the long term. Yeah. But once you get to the point where you're used to winning and you just have that mentality you understand okay I'm not going to be good at first. There's going to be risk. I might lose money. I don't really care. You detach yourself from all the importance, right? But when you're coming from zero, it's like this is my ticket. Yeah. And it's too much pressure. Yeah. You know, it's like anything. Once you put a level of importance on something, like if you assign something like this has to work, when does it ever work? Yeah. It's like if you look at a girl like, "Oh my god, she's out of my league." Right. You're going to sound stupid as hell trying to talk to her. That's a fact. But you know what I mean? So it's just it's all this it's importance. Like that's like a big thing I always uh talk about and think about is like the less you can give a [\h__\h] about something and like not not so much from like a sociopath like you don't care about anything, but from the sense of like I understand to win I have to remove that emotion. Yeah. When you have that kind of intention with anything, that's really whenever you get good at winning. You know what I mean? So I think that's probably the big thing with trading. Like a lot of people I like Jeremy or you or people I know and I tell people in my community this that are like struggling. And I'm like, look, there are people that I know that came into this, looked around, said, "Okay, this how this works." Okay. And within a year, made a bunch of money. So, it's possible, but it's because of the way they think. And everybody I know who's trading, who made money trading, was making money doing something else. Yeah. Right. So, they wasn't like betting the farm on this, right? Cuz they too emotional. But I want to get into like trading psychology and stuff. But before we do that, what exactly do you trade now? Just futures, right? Yeah. NASDAQ. NASDAQ. I trade crypto sometimes, but mainly I wouldn't call it trading. Yeah. And NQ is all I trade. Same. Yeah. Same. Yeah. ES and stuff is like I used to trade I my first year I traded ES just I just didn't know you know I was just trying to figure it out, you know. And I was trading on uh I didn't know [\h__\h] man. I was trading on uh uh Thinker Swim, right? Back when it was TD and Mirror Trade. Yeah. And uh you know, I didn't I didn't know there was better options or different options. There's a big traders that trade on TV. Yeah. Like my boy Umar. Um you know who Umar? Yeah. In in New York, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He trades on uh on TD. Yeah, he does. That dude kills it, bro. He's a beast. Why do you think he does TD instead of Ninja trade? He trades options, though. That's right. He trades on. But I mean I mean, you know, I think it's just his options. That's right. He trades. That's the So why futures? Tell Can you explain to people who don't know what are futures? How they different from stocks, options, and all that other [\h__\h] So two, so like a quick there's like a boring explanation and then the one that actually matters, right? Yeah, the one actually matters is essentially the main difference is in futures you have a very clear amount of profit or loss you're going to take if the market moves. So if the market moves one point or $1 on NASDAQ for every full contract you have every minute your P& is $20. Yeah. With options there's someone does the Greeks there's time decay there's different mechanics to pricing an option data delta all that other [\h__\h] right you got you not only you got to be right you got to be right at the right time. Yeah. Yeah. You know. Yeah. options. The thing I'll say about options though, man, like like all the people I talk to that are in the institutional world, like they're trading like big big money, not like prop from like, you know, we're talking, you know, eight eight nine figure accounts, right? None of them trade futures. They all trade options or they'll use futures to hedge. Yeah. But a side note, the difference really futures you can be more calculated. It's better for it's better for small accounts for sure. Like there's no uh PDT rule. So like that's true. Yeah. Like with options you got to have 25K to really day trade. You know what I mean? Um, and then with futures it's just like whatever. Like I mean I think trade of it's like minimum $1,000 per NASDAQ which is crazy because you blow your ass to pieces trying to trade NASDAQ,000 or $2,000. Weeble just had just added futures. Oh yeah. Yeah. And I think you only need like $500. Yes. That's crazy. Shit's going to get gone. Yeah. Support like man I think something's wrong with my account. I think it's the minis you know but still you know the micros. Yeah. And uh Robin Hood added um futures recently too. So yeah, people are learning more. So it's it's it's really why why not just buy QQQ? Like explain to them why not just buy QQQ instead of futures? I would say like you could make arguments on both sides. Like the reason I trade futures is because I like being in and out and it's like again it's calculated risk management, right? And it's just like less so like you're going to be able to get better riskto-reward. So like for example later I'll show you this trade we took today. He was with me this morning. It was crazy, bro. We took it. It was like a five to one return. Options is hard to get that unless you're doing zero days. Yeah. But but the thing with options is though, you can model your risk a lot more efficiently. So, like there's pros and cons to both. I'd say for most people looking to get into trading is better for futures. Yeah. It's way less complicated than options. Exactly. Simpler, takes less money to make a lot of money for for like especially for day trading. You know, when I when I do options, I like to sell options. We talk about it here too. Yeah, like for my like investing, I'll sell um cash cure puts to get into a position and then sell cover calls against my position. Oh, so you already know that. I didn't know you traded. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. See, like I I'm I'm trying to get into like really really like trading trading options, but more so from like an investment standpoint. Like I sell options. That's always sell. Yeah. So like one of my uh I don't know if he's watching his name's Emry. We we I talked to him. He's a he's like a silent silent beast at trading. He's not big on socials, but um basically he was talking about some stuff where it's like essentially like let's say if you're bearish on the market instead of you would still sell puts but you'd sell them where they're like unreasonable like they're very very unlikely to uh you know where you're not going to collect the premium but then also sell futures contracts to hedge it. Oh, but like do it with like crazy size and they'll calculate like what's the probability like they'll use the VIX and then they'll determine like what their expiry like how far out they're going to buy them. So like recently they've been buying them just like two weeks out. Yeah. But then or not buying them, sorry, selling them selling the ones that are two weeks out and making crazy [\h__\h] bro. Oh, that's [\h__\h] Crazy. But it's complicated. But but I like learning that kind of like I'm like if you can master that, you know, it's another way another income, you know? Yep. Yep. Yep. All right. Cool. So why' you pick why why ENQ instead of ES or even Bitcoin futures or Russell futures or gold or some [\h__\h] more volatile? And also like the strategy I use is like a timebased strategy. So essentially like I'll just mark out the the range between midnight and 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. the previous night midnight. The high and low of each one of those is the only levels I trade works the best on NQ. It works on ES2, right? Yeah. Um but it works very well on NQ. It's the high of the Asia session and the London session like high and low and the previous days high and low. Can you show us? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I think I gotta get on the Wi-Fi though. Oh, you got to get on the Wi-Fi. All right. Uh the the the W I'm I'mma write the Wi-Fi password for you. I should have told you. No, I for I should have asked. I I was on my chart. Oh, wait. Am I That's not Oh, that's the name and this the password. Okay. Okay. I was like, "Okay, I can't say it right now." Just give us a second, guys. Just give us a moment. Should be good. Let's see. You in there? I think so. It's loading. Yeah. All right. Cool. You good? Yeah, we're good. Can you see on the screen everything? All right. Cool. Nice. Yeah. So, this is actually the trade I took this morning. Um, you can see right here the executions, but essentially what you do is Okay, so like what what time frame is this chart? This is the five minute. Okay. You trade on the five minute. one minute, but I'm just showing the one minute. Yeah, but you charge on the five minute. Um I'm just mainly for me like it's funny half the time I'm charting I'm just show trying to show people like I just mark only thing I mark is these levels cuz really you can mark them on anything like theoretically could trade on one time frame. Okay. Okay. Right. You know what I mean? So like it's just again like you put the this vertical line right here. This over a little bit. So at 1800 or 6 p.m. the night before. Right. Okay. So you so the low of the pre-market low. Yeah. There's two so two there's two sections of a premarket. Okay. Okay. So, like for example, see right here, this would be considered Asia Asia session. So, 6 p.m. to midnight. Okay. 6 p.m. Eastern Standard Time to midnight. Yeah. And then mark the high and the low. Now, in this example, you see the low already gotten out, so we're not going to pay attention to that. Now, you can also mark out the London high and low. So, the London high is midnight to 6 a.m. Okay. Or the low is, you know, same thing. Got it. Now what I do is I just watch a very I watch for reactions at these levels during the market session. After this trading view you're using trading. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So like for example right here like this morning let me go to the one minute this morning if we look like right here like once the market opened like here was right there market open on this candle. Yeah. So once these levels, the way I look at it is like you know the whole you get the whole idea of like liquidity and like you've seen all that [\h__\h] right? I've seen it but I would like you to explain it for these guys. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Oh yeah, absolutely. I I forget I'm not like everybody I'm used to talking to everybody who's trading. Yeah. But okay, so essentially it's a new audience, man. It's a different audience. Yeah. The the uh the essentially the idea is like let's say if you're a large market participant, right? We all agree that markets are manipulated, you know? So, let's say if whoever's manipulating the markets, you know, like they don't have the benefit we do of being able to buy and sell whenever they want, right? So, let's say if you want to go enter 2,000 contracts in NASDAQ, there's got to be 2,000 contracts for sale. Ah, which very rarely is going to be that top of, you know, that type of liquidity on the book, right? So, what they have to do is they have to create it. Oh, so like what liquidity is just where something's being bought or sold. So, like where is a lot of liquidity going to be? People's stop loss. Got it. Right. Right. So like anybody the idea is anybody who was short from the Asia session a lot of algorithms a lot of people the way they do their strategies they're going to put their stop at that high. Show show me exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So like for example the the if they got short anywhere in here. Mhm. They're likely going to have their stop at the high of that. Okay. Got it. You know there's a lot of people that won't but that's the idea. It's just a time based point and like I'm telling you go check go test these levels and just mess with it. You'll be like mind blown like mind blown how often it works. Um, but essentially I'll watch like once we hit one of those, ideally like let's just say if the market was bearish, what would you want to see the what's called the market makers for the lack of a better term, the the the market manipulators, what would you want to see them do if the market's bearish and they had the selling sell? Yeah. So, if we go to an area where we establish they got an opportunity to sell, yet you don't see them selling. Mhm. Where's where's market likely? That that tells me, okay, this level, they're not using this level. Okay, let me go go back. Let me see. Yeah. Yeah. So like so so so just walk walk me through it. So you had this one you you marked the high and you felt like those are that's that's where people's who went short that's where their stop loss is. Correct. And it's just because it's the high that was the highest high between 6 p.m. and midnight. Right. Right. Right. So it's just the same thing every day. Real mechanical like you I don't you don't have to um pick different. It's always the high or the low of those two time ranges. Got it. Once the market hits that then I'll watch for like a confirmation. So, I'll trade a reversal, too, if it happens. But a lot of these traders, they get stuck and always trying to trade reversals, man. So, you went long here because it went to that it it because at the open it it touched that and then went up. Yeah. Yeah. So, essentially like there's a couple things that I use as like an entry pattern. So, you know what a fair value gap is? I don't know it as well as I've heard it. I don't know it as well well enough to talk to you about it and tell you. Yeah. Yeah. No. So it's it's just uh all it is is a three candle pattern. So you've got one, two, three candles and the middle candle is expansive. So there's a gap between the wicks. Does it matter what time? So it's three candles no matter what time frame you use. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. All this stuff the way I look at it is like candles are just a different representation of a time range. Okay. So it all always works on everything. But like the lower you go, the less data there is. Yeah. Yeah. That's the way I look at it. You know what I mean? Cuz I trade off the 15-minute cand and that's still fine. I mean I got took a trade my biggest trade this month was on the 15-minute. Yeah, you know what I mean? So, I trade on those two. Mostly I trade on the one minute. But like for example, if I'm looking at the like on Sunday night, I was looking at the 15-inut. I was like, we're absolutely going to sell off, right? So, I saw the two contracts swung them over into all that dip on Monday all the way down. So, um I I'll turn the 15-minute too. Okay. But essentially, the way I like judge whether or not the market's going to reverse, that's the opening candle that you highlighted. No, this is I just picked a random one to show fair gaps. This is just for like the pattern. This is like random price action, but like let's just say, let's just imagine the level was right here. Mhm. And the price hit it during the the market open. Yeah. What I would look at for a reversal. Oh man. Wait, hold on. Let me just do this. Sometimes Trading View likes to [\h__\h] around. I was doing this the other day. We'll make it work eventually. You got this, man. I believe in you. Was it on the five minute? I had drawn it somewhere. Okay, here I'll do it like this. Let's say um so we got a fair value gap right here. Okay, now notice how this fair value gap got inverted. And when I mean inverted, the other candle closed through it. Cuz ideally what you want to see is like this kind of action. It taps it and goes. You don't get a candle close. When you say taps, it goes explain it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like this right here. So like for example, see how this one that's a fair value gap. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Got it. So we tapped it and then went. Got it. That shows us, okay, the market's bullish here. This the level is being respected. However, like let's just say if you're trading during the session and you see this happen at one of your levels, I would have sold cuz that shows okay, we're we're bearish. Ah, right. And that's just one of the patterns. So you can look for. Now the other one you look for is that candle engulfings. However, like if we look at this over here, what happened this morning? Let me go over. I'm so much slower without a mouse on these things, too. It's funny. Like, yeah, I I I always have a mouse, bro. You use Which mouse you use? This one? The same one? Yeah. Yeah, man. I want like five of these, man. Yeah, they're the best, bro. The best. I was talking to my boy the other day. He was like, "Yeah, I use the LG or GT Tech." I was like, "Man, you need you need this one so you can scroll sideways." Yep. Exactly, man. And it just the way it feels and it's just perfect, bro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know. Yo, man. On some on some You want I got I got hot keys set up on these buttons. Yeah. So, I got buy market sell market here. Oh, that's actually fire, bro. That's fire. I haven't done that to be honest with tra with with uh Ninja Trader. So, I got and and I also got a a the stream deck on my trading computer. Man, I have I'll show you. And I got like buy market, sell market, take profit, close. That's like the magic keys. Yeah. So, I'm like I'm hitting that [\h__\h] like like a joystick, but I can do it on my right here, too. Anyway, go ahead. Go ahead. That's fire. No. Yeah, but y need y'all need to [\h__\h] with the Logitech mouse. Logitech. Y'all owe me money for that. I'm remember this [\h__\h] man. No, but yeah. I mean, really all it is on this like like I look at it like this like so the market the way we're reacting to highs and lows tells you really everything. So, like for example, I don't really pay attention to what happens till after we hit this after the session. So, anything to the left. So you don't So you don't trade pre-market? Nothing. It's just Okay. No, I used to and I looked at a bunch of my data and it was just like inconclusive to almost unprofitable. Really? Yeah. Because you don't if you if you're doing good and then you throw in because it wasn't many trades. Yeah. But like I always tell people really, man, like like do you journal and look at your [\h__\h] Probably not. No. I swear just use like Tradezel like Umar's thing. Use Trade Zela. Just autom it automates it. And just the only thing I always challenge people to use is use the report that tells you what your most profitable time of the day is. Okay? Because with trading, if you eliminate like imagine if you had like a team and you had the close rate of four or five guys, let's say, is 30%. Yeah. And then you got wonder at 10%. Yeah. Yeah. What happens when you remove that? That's like the same thing when you remove your least profitable 15 minutes. You know what I mean? So that's the way I always look at data. But anyways, I figured out the pre-market wasn't for me. Now, um, if we look at this right here, this told me like the way I look at the the market once we hit a key level is how do we react to highs and lows? Mhm. Do we like push through this low? No. It hits it and just pops right back up. Okay. We get engulfing. So, what happens when we hit this low or this high, I should say. I'm sorry. We engulfed through it, right? So, as soon as we engulfed through that and closed, Yeah. I longed right there and held that long. That was like And this this was like first minute. Yeah. Like first it was uh what time is this? 9. And that was this morning. Yeah. 9:40. Yeah. We It's going to be a sick We We did the the day in the life vlog. It was so sick, bro. Cuz you know, trading like most people don't realize this. Like a lot of the trading gurus, they'll be like, "You win every time." We never lose. Like, bro, you really don't. You could be the best trader in the world, you're going to lose. Yeah. Absolutely. Like you have losing days. So, it's funny like anytime you do a day in the life as a trader, you're like, "Man, I hope today." Yeah. You hope today, right? Yeah. Like, I did this one last time. It was hilarious. I was telling him. So, I did this day in the life. We went down to Bickl to do it in the like at a coffee shop. First mistake right there. We get there, it's full. So we're outside, there's like [\h__\h] jackhammers going like they're doing construction. I go I sit down and I like trade and like take a loss and I was like, man, this is the worst [\h__\h] day in the life ever, man. I was like, throw this [\h__\h] in the trash. But today was a good We took this thing and and [\h__\h] killed it. And I did it live, too. I was streaming with the with the group. Okay. So they they killed it, too. But yeah, we we caught it. Ran it for like 160 points. That's what's up. Yeah, man. Yeah. But that's that's really the key is when and do you have a takeprofit or like No, so like the way I do it like okay, so the next time based level so like I'll do the previous day's high, previous days low. Like those are some of the levels. Then the Asia session high and low. So if it hits one and I get a confirmation it's going to continue, I look for the next one. Oh, and that's where you put that's where you put your take profit. Yeah. Yeah. But but I don't usually let my take usually my stop loss is like my take profit. You just keep moving the stop up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So like for example in this right here I also use some like have you heard of footprint charts? No. I use these a little bit. Now this where it gets like hierogly hieroglyphics. A lot of people kind of like Oh yeah. No I've seen this. My boy Greg had some [\h__\h] like this up. I don't even know what the [\h__\h] he's talking about when he brings this up. I won't even trade together every morning. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Oh I met him at uh Jeremy. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I won't even get into all this, but essentially there's ways you can use this to to kind of trail but this stuff I always tell people it looks intimidating because like when I first it's like oh yeah there's so many [\h__\h] numbers in that like it's not beginner friendly but it's really not that complicated. Yeah. Like essentially all it is is like determining what side of traders are getting trapped cuz you know how like how does it Yeah. So, like you know how like okay the GME like the GameStop short squeeze, you remember that happened like the GameStop craze. The way that actually worked was Wall Street was so short on GameStop that whenever they basically were wrong, they have to exit those positions at a loss, which is equivalent essentially to a buy. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, like if you can identify what set of traders is trapped, then you can identify who's offside. So, like for example, if I know that there's a ton like here, I'll just show you this morning. Let's see. Let's put it to the test. People tell me in the chat if this makes any sense because I always am uh interesting to see if I explain it well. Let me find nine. Okay, so this morning right if you notice right here like this what this is is it's telling you how many um like the delta Mhm. there's delta in volume. So delta is just the difference like were there more sales or more buys. Yeah. Like orders, right? So, if in this candle right here, we can identify that there was a lot of sells right here with the open. And you got to pair this with that level. Remember, we're hitting into that level. That's the key thing. Okay? So, we hit into that level and a bunch of sales came into the market right here. Notice how also too, like at one time there was 439 more sells than buys. But by the end of the candle, there was a thousand more buys than sells. M. So what that means is that people tried to aggressively sell off at that level, but then buyers absorbed it. So buyers stepped in and like bought a shitload. They said everything's for sale, we want it all and more. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? So then it's like it's just basic supply and demand when you really think about it. And then the same thing happened in this next candle right here. So that's like absorption. So like you're going to a level where the market should sell off. People try to sell, but some somebody or a group of people is like we're going up. We're going up. Yeah. And so when you can identify that, then what happens? All those people that sold, guess what they got to do? They got they got to liquidate their position and that's a buy. Yeah. So it's like rocket fuel. Yeah. So if you can identify that, you know, that's how you can kind of really catch momentum and catch really big moves, man. Okay, man. Okay. Yeah. So the way let me ask you a question. What's what's the different when you talk about people talk about liquidity and the way you market it? You're really just marketing. It's almost like you're marketing support and resistance. It is support and resistance. And a lot of people that trade the smart money type stuff, they'll always be like, you know, they trade like the ICT, like which what I trade, but it has such a dumbass like connotation around it cuz people like act like like uh like support and resistance is dumb. I'm like, bro, we're just finding support and resistance our own way. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's like a whole cult. Like in the trading world, man, there's like little subniches of trading. Um but yeah, everything is support and resistance. Think about it. Yeah. Like every strategy is just a different way of finding support. Support and resistance, right? That's all it is. Yeah. And if you could think of it like that, like that like support and resistance confirmations of whether it's going to work or not. Like once a level hits, like how do you find your levels once it hits? How do you define if it's going to work? That's trading. Ah, but people be going down these crazy rabbit holes like finding some like crazy like, you know, story behind everything. Like there's like, you know, that's why people overthink things, man. It's simpler than it. It's, you know, for me, I I tried a bunch of different strategies and I have just a super simple strategy and to to the point where it it would it would probably feel like it was too simple. Like, you know, I showed you my like profits this morning. I texted you, but that's like that's kind of normal. Like, I don't know. I win more than I lose. Like, but it's it's a it's like I don't even want to I don't really talk about it because it seems so simple. It's almost Man, traders are like, "Tell me, please tell me that I want to know this [\h__\h] It's too I can show you, but people are going to make fun of me." Like, you know, man, I think if anybody says, Man, honestly, I think if anybody makes fun of simple, they just just dumb as heck. I'll show you what I do. You You could cheat it. Tell Tell me what I could do better. I'll bring up uh Transpire. You tell me what I could do, what I could, how I can improve upon this. But it's something that I just It's like a mashup of [\h__\h] that I learned over the First of all, look at this stupid ass chart. Hold on. Let me uh Can't even see it. Yeah, I know. I'm Oh, you can't see it. Oh, you can share the You can see I can see the screen. Oh, but you can share my screen though. Okay. All right. So, this So, sometimes I use um Trendpider, but Yeah, transpider is cool. So the [\h__\h] Let me get rid of all this [\h__\h] Boom. You got the volume profiles, too. Yeah. Yeah, I like that. Volume profiles are huge, man. Yeah. So, like that's a kind of similar like what I just showed you. The footprints pairs a lot with the volume profile. So, the the the trades I took today. So, this is uh like this was this was last night, right? This was it gapped up. Midnight. And what I do is I have these moving averages up. Let me move up. EMAs like what not 21 50 I I'll show you exactly what I don't have them memorized which ones I use but yeah 50 SMA uh just all these moving averages right you can you can see them all right and then and I trade off the 15minute chart and what I do is man I just look it's going to sound too simple if it's over the 200 I'm looking for longs I mean yeah if it's under the 200 I'm looking for shorts And it's really just bounces off of bounces off the moving averages. So, for example, it broke out here and then it came back down. This where I went long this morning. Boom. And then I had like a to take profit like around here. Then I did the same thing again when it came back here. Boom. And then I was done for the day. And that's how I trade. Man, that's But that's good though, bro. I go for rejection off movement averages on the 15-inute chart as you see. It's like at the end of the day, man, it's like anything, right? If there's something that's simple that works, that should be done that way. Yeah. Like like even It's almost so simple that I feel like it seems rudimentary, like rudimentary, like almost stupid. That's what people That's how people make money, though. Yeah. Like especially when you're new, half the battle is just sticking to the strategy. But most people have a strategy that's too complicated. They can't stick to it. So, they never really get good at trading. I read this book. I remember my first year trading, I read this book called uh Trading in the Zone. The Zone Mark Douglas. Yeah. And that's like it's one of my favorite books like like that everything he says in there can be applied to like life in general probabilities. Yeah. Yeah. Just pro. And he said man you know the last chapter he say if you just get a strategy any any edge you think you have and just work it work that edge. The only time I've ever I ever lose I mean is something crazy happens right or I don't follow my rules because I have other rules that I don't want to get this this there's a few other rules I have that's it's a little more complicated than what I said but that's basically what right that's right and I just I just follow my rules and it's really about being disciplined and waiting for it to set up. Yeah. That's that's a there's a joke it's like there's a meme it's like something like a good trade good trade and then there's like where you [\h__\h] everything up. Yeah. Because it's like that's the thing. It's not hard to find good trades. Like I always tell people that they're like always trying to learn how to find more trades. I'm like if you got a wa a bucket with holes in it. Yeah. You need more water. Not really. You know what I mean? Most people don't like even look at the right problem half the time is just not [\h__\h] up in between. It's hard, man. It's hard. Like it's gamble. Because at the end of the day, too, another thing people don't ever want to admit like in the trading space, they'll be like, "Yeah, like that's gambling." I'm like, "My guy, we are all gambling. Legit gambling. It is probabilistic outcomes that we're trying to b make money on. Yeah. The way the way I always looked at and you're the expert, right? That's why I brought you on. I'm not I'm not for sure not a trading expert nor do I claim to be right. Um but I always looked at it like you're gambling and you know you only need to be right if you know if you're risking the same the right amount same every time. You only need to be right 50% 51% of the time to be profitable. Yeah. You get what I'm saying? Yeah. And it could be more than that depending on your risk to reward, right? But I only when I realized that I was like, "Okay, all I got to do is follow my rules." And it's just I'm a stickler for following my rules. Even if I see something, I'll be like, "Man, I want to take it." I'm like, "Nah, it's against my rules." Or I'll be on with Greg, who is like a really good trader, right? And he he said he's about to go long or or short or something and I like it's against my rules. You know, I'd rather lose lose the trade and follow my rules than break my rules and win and win because you reward yourself for breaking your rules, right? So, what are you going to do? You know, you train yourself to break the rules. I think that's where people [\h__\h] up. But that's like I don't know. No, it's real. And that's it goes back to just winning and losing, man. Like in anything, you know what I mean? That's why people that like a lot of times people get into trading whenever they haven't really won big at a lot of things. Yeah. And it's like, okay, you're in a business where 90% of people fail. What makes you think you're going to be the one 10% if you can't do basic life [\h__\h] Yeah. Like, if you can't like people be like, "N can't wake up at the same time every day." And they're like, "Oh my god, I'm trying so hard at trading. I can't believe I lost money." Yeah. If you can't if you have no discip like this, you got to have discipline to do this [\h__\h] right? Like I'm You You let me know like how how long do you trade per day? 1 hour. 1 hour. I mean, 1 hour and a half. One hour or something. How many trades you take? Usually max three. Sometimes four. The only time I take four is if it's like let's say I took one, it moves a little bit. I move stuff to break even, took me out. I might like scale back in. Yeah. But usually like one to two. Like today was one and done. So what do you what do you do the rest of when you're wait? No, no. When you're waiting for your setup, usually I'm on stream. So I'm just I usually feel like I'm talking a bunch of people off a ledge. Ah. cuz I know uh subconsciously all the people that I'm talking to are watching waiting on me to make action. And then they're also people that they almost need to have something going on. Yeah. So they don't [\h__\h] up. Yeah. And I'd be like, "Right here, look. Right here. This is where a couple years ago I would have done this and I would have made this mistake and I would have done it because of this." And I know a lot of you are sitting here thinking, "Oh my god, this guy's reading my mind." And it's like, "Yeah, cuz I used to do that." So don't do that. I got you. You know what I mean? and you're giving them something that occupy their mind instead of being cuz if you sometimes when have you experienced this? I feel like sometimes you'll be trading and you'll be bored and you'll just want to you'll start looking for the setup that ain't there. Yeah. Yeah. Is that a thing? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely, man. Or like if you've like the worst thing for me, the the hardest thing is like if like let's say if you spend like an hour and there's nothing. Yeah. I mean like it's not like you're going to go do some dumb [\h__\h] But for me I start thinking of all the other [\h__\h] I could have done. Uh like man I got [\h__\h] to do. But that's just part of the game. Yeah. You know it's part of the game. What I do is I play guitar. Really? Yeah. Well because I'm waiting for the set like I'm waiting for the setup. That's a good way to do it. That's keep it's keeping your mind focused. I'm doing something so I don't get so bored, right? And it's something that's very very demanding, too. See, me it helps too cuz like I'm on stream and I'm talking. It's almost like I'm doing a solo podcast or something. Yeah. You know what I mean? So, it's uh that definitely helps a lot. And plus, you got a bunch of people watching you. So, you just you gota I mean, it's funny. It used to [\h__\h] with me bad when I first started doing that. Just like nervous, you know? This is like years ago. Like when I first like whenever I came up on YouTube it was like I was telling you it was on accident. So like I got put in that group I did good and they were like you know we want you to stream. Discord can only have 50 people on a stream. So as they grew I went on YouTube to stream just to host the streams. Ah but when that happened people started showing up and it was 50 people. Then it was 100 people. Then it was 200 people and then like at that point I was still 200 people on the stream. So you were like nervous cuz now you got to perform. Well cuz everybody's like [\h__\h] piece of [\h__\h] You know, when you lose Yeah. You know, which I didn't really care. Especially if they went with you. Yeah. They all Yeah. Then they're all like, then you win, they're like, "Oh my god, you're the goat." Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, I mean, it's just now I don't even care. But like um Yeah. Like back then I I did though. You know what I mean? When I was still coming up because at that point I was still like I had made money trading, but I wasn't like as confident. Like it was still I was in that phase like that one like damn did I really crack this [\h__\h] Yeah. Like am I still getting like this? You know what I mean? But yeah, that's probably where I'm at. Like I've been making money. Yeah, but it's like I I don't have your confidence in it. You know what I'm saying? This is what you do. It's something I do in the morning and then don't think about it for the rest of the day. But you like you live this [\h__\h] cuz you you got to make videos about it. You teach it. You have courses, all that other [\h__\h] I don't live this [\h__\h] I just trade in the morning. I think I go too, man. I think like whenever you're learning like it's almost better not to like like this is kind of a contrarian take. Like a lot of people say you got to like lock all the way in and like I think for a period with anything you need to immerse yourself. Yeah. But hold on. One thing when I got back into trading maybe like year and a half ago, first thing I did I was paper trading. I I tracked my hours and I I was like I got I logged 200 hours of paper trading. I would download data like historical data on on trader and I and that's kind of how I developed my my strategy and my rules. But it took two I had to lock in like 200 hours. It was like a few hours a day I'd be running [\h__\h] simulated trades. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And there's like a phase for that. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. For sure. For sure. Like that's that's required. But like once you get to the point where you're at, I think that's like the best point because now it's not it's like that importance thing I was talking about. Now it's kind of just like it's just something I do in the morning. It's like whatever. Yeah. Don't matter if I win, don't matter if I lose. And then it's like now you're in flow. Yeah. I try to make, you know, it's funny you say important because it's something I don't it's one reason I don't talk about it or or even like I'll come out I'll come out my office my girl like she's she's in the in the kitchen doing some [\h__\h] and I won't even tell her that I made a bunch of money, right? Cuz I don't want it to be important to me. Yeah. Like you don't want to make it into I don't want to make it a [\h__\h] thing. You know what I'm saying? Absolutely. Is that I don't know if it's superstition but it sounds like you're saying that that's like absolutely something you need to do. It's not just my crazy superstition. Sometimes I'll say [\h__\h] but very rare. Like if it's like really good, I'll be like, "Hey, yeah, I'm in a great mood today." You know, but most of the time like just don't talk about the ups and downs to anybody. I always help people that like because people that I'll work with, they'll be like, you know, they're still learning and they're like, "Yeah, you know, my my wife is uh on me about this." I'm like, "Why are you talking about this? Like you're stressing your wife?" Like she probably I'm like, "Do you take care of things?" Yeah. Like Yeah. Like what the [\h__\h] are you doing talking about that with your trying to like put fear in and then then now you got extra pressure? You you bring external pressure and even even if like my girl wouldn't put pressure on me about it, but it's like I just don't I don't want to get addicted to the praise from her or you know what I'm saying? Like I just I I want it to be nothing. Yeah, man. I Oh, I just made a bunch of money. Time for breakfast. Put on Sports Center. Watch breakfast. Eat breakfast. Watch Sports Center. Right. Like it's like it's nothing. Yeah. And and if it's a loss, instead of [\h__\h] panicking or something, I act exactly the same because in my brain I I never heard no one say it except for you that you wanted to to decrease the importance. But that's how I think about it. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, man. Yeah. And that's the thing. Another big thing is the lo the way you do the losing. Like a lot of people lose and they always want to like go on some like hero's journey to review why they lost. And like I'm like, bro, you just lost probabilities, man. Sometimes you lose. Like it's okay, you know? And if you sit there and dwell on it, you again, you ever read the book Trans Surfing? Yeah. That's where I get this whole importance thing. It's like I was I was thinking that cuz I read the book, too. Yeah. It's it's so But it's like I mean there's some crazy [\h__\h] in that book. But it's like if you take the the the concept of importance and apply it to trading that book for I read it a long time ago. I actually reread it recently. Um it's one of those books that hits way different audio book this year. There's some crazy [\h__\h] in there. He talking about some like crazy [\h__\h] but there is some good [\h__\h] Most of it's good, I think. But, um, if you can apply that same like way of thinking to trading, I think that it's so powerful for most people, especially like whenever you're not there yet. Yeah. The book he's talking about is reality trans surfing. Yeah. By Vadim Zealand. Is it over here? It's probably in the pink. Oh, I know. It's in the other room. It's in the other the my other office. Yeah, the other library. The other library. But, okay, let's get back to this real quick. What indicators do you use? None. The only thing that I'll ever look at going raw. Yeah. Yeah. Raw. Raw dogging it. Whoa. So, it's just price action. Yeah. Yeah. Just price action. Yeah. Price action. Then I sometimes will look at the footprints and profiles. But the only thing I really look for in profiles is like like, okay, let's say if we have a bunch of stacked high volume nodes and it's just kind of like very low volume. After that, I'd be like, okay, on these kind of days, I'm going to be a little bit more liberal with my trades. Let them run longer because I'm expecting the market's going to rush. Yeah. And if I see a day where there's like a really big high volume node, like the big peak, I'm like, "Okay, I'm probably gonna be like more aggressive, move my stop up, but I don't really use it to like execute or nothing." Okay. You know what I mean? Ah, that's So, man, you just go raw. No indication. Doging it. Wow. Cuz I I have mad [\h__\h] up. I got like all the EMAs and I have uh two RSIs because I have I have the regular RSI and then the RSI 2. Yo, that that for me it's been real helpful cuz the RSI 2 when it's real oversold like all right, that's when I I feel more confident about a short because I'm doing retracements. Right. Right. So if it's oversold into a retracement, I mean overbought into a retracement and I'm going short like, okay, it gives me more confidence. But damn, you just going raw out here. Yeah, I used to trade I've traded with everything. I've traded with like I used to trade with ALGO called Omni and it was like an algo that would print like these crazy ass levels. Yeah, I used to trade with like VWAP, um, T-W. Dude, I've tried everything. Like harmonic patterns if you don't know what crazy patterns like they're like crazy. It's like Fibonacci patterns. I trade everything, bro. Bought all the course. Jeremy I think Jeremy trades raw, too. Yeah, he trades similar now. I do like super similar. Yeah, I actually go over I'm going go over there tomorrow and kind of figure out exactly what he did cuz like he's told me and it kind of sounds like what I just explained really when one liquidity level fails, move to the next. I don't know if he said I'm not going to say it because he didn't say it on I've heard him say it publicly, but he made he's made out of everyone I know, he's made the most money and maybe you made more, right, in a year. Yes. Over the years. I mean, I will say what he did was like impressive. It was wild. He made like a crazy amount because like it's funny. That's just the standards like thing, right? Like so he came in and I was talking about he said I want to be in the top 1% of everything I do. Yeah. Right. So when you come to that mindset and you're not in like around a bunch of people, you're not setting your standard as like what's crazy, you just go off what's crazy to you. And like Jeremy, you know, Jimmy's getting money, bro. You know what I mean? Like so it's like to him anything less than that is like the [\h__\h] are we doing here? But that's so powerful. That's why he killed it. You know what I mean? Cuz that's like when a lot of other people come in here, like I I've talked to people and been like, you know, how much do you want to make in a day? How much would you comfortably make in a day? It's a weird question. Yeah. But everybody else like like they're like, well, how much do I want to make? I'm like, and how much would you be comfortable? Yeah. Like if you got right now, would you feel like not crazy? Most people say like 5 10K. Yeah. And I'm like that's Well, there you go. You'll probably that's probably your ceiling where you might get really lucky and make that. And when you do, you're probably going to get nervous and [\h__\h] it up. You know what I mean? So like Jerems was way Yeah. Jeremy's like, not to put too much of his business out there, but he wouldn't he that wouldn't make a big difference in his life. No. So he had to go like way bigger. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that that it's important too, whatever that is for for you, like when you're starting out, you always want to start small and like, you know, learn or whatever, right? Like don't do something that's going to bankrupt you, but also don't do something that's so small that you don't give a [\h__\h] Like I talked to some people, they're training these Apex accounts. They've just got one 25K account. Yeah. And I'm like, okay, if you're just learning and you just started and you literally are like know nothing and you're like training like a video game. That's fine. Cuz I like some people, they're like like in shambles over account, they're paying like a $100 and I'm asking these people, it's not like they're broke. They're not broke. Yeah. So I'm like, bro, like do you go to steak houses? Yeah. You probably spend [\h__\h] more on a steak. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. People be like It's a ego thing though. It's it well it's a carrot dangling thing. Like it's not necessarily losing money. It's like losing opportunity. Yeah. You know what I mean? Jeremy didn't give a [\h__\h] bro. I seen him blow 20 accounts twice in a day and just reup reset his accounts and then and then blow blow two sets of 20 accounts. Yeah. In one day go back and be trading again by the end of the day. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? But I mean like some people in the trading industry, they don't want to talk about it. But like any of these people that are getting crazy crazy payouts, that's what they're doing. Yeah. But but the thing is though, people say that's gambling. He's just a gambler. It's like, man, what the [\h__\h] are you talking about? Like if you have a certain amount of money and you can risk it. Like that's what that's the point. Like obviously you don't want to just It's not like people act like you're just closing your eyes and pushing buy or sell. Like for example, I did like a bunch of Apex challenges with my group just to to show them. Yeah. My bad. just to uh to show him, you know what I mean, that it's like, oh, this is possible. Right. When I did that, it was like last summer, I literally traded him like and basically risked like the whole risk on one trade in one. Yeah. And you got you got the account proof like one trade. Instantly. Instantly. Holy [\h__\h] Yeah. No, you know what I mean? Like I But it's like, okay, let's say if for for like the 50ks, right? So like back then that was when 50k you only need like five five You got to make 5K to get that. No, no, it's uh 3K. 3K. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah, man. like [\h__\h] today I made 3K on one one contract. Yeah. You know what I mean? That was my personal but um you know like at that time the payout threshold the minimum payout threshold was 40k. Ah so if and at that time it was a little cheaper. Now it's like 3k but it was like 2k then we'll just we'll use 3k to buy 20k 20 accounts and activate them and activate them. So let's say if you have 3k okay you've got to [\h__\h] [\h__\h] that up almost seven times. Yeah. to to be like in the red now. Like if you're brand new, that's not that hard to do. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? But if you know what you're doing and you know like that's like I built a software for this too. Like I have a whole SAS that's like I don't sell it like in the public or anything, but it's like a um it's just like for the people I work with, but it's basically it'll tell you what risk to take based on the account you're trading and the trailing draw down the account has and your win rate and all your trading metrics. And most people don't realize they're not risking enough. Oh, so it's some it's something like trade of eight or trade of it's like uh it's called I call it enigma but it's like um but it's it's for prop trading. Yeah. Okay. Because to be clear like so some of y'all may not know this. You know his your audience knows I forget. Yeah. But like these guys they don't know what um prop trading is. Prop trading. Can you explain prop trading because I didn't learn about that till like a year and a half ago. My I was trading with my own money. Yeah. You know. Yeah. And you know that's more you feel it more right. But it was um it's a it's a different thing. But I was profitable. You know what I'm saying? But now now I'm [\h__\h] with Apex. But can you explain it to him? Yeah. So like imagine if there was a company where you could take a test and if you can prove on a paper account that you can make X amount of money without losing X amount of money, then you could get funded with more money. However, they're actually casinos. Yeah, they're casinos. There's no money ever being traded. Yeah. No real money ever. It's not even real. People think that they like copy your trades and win. No, it's just some may. They might. Certain traders probably not. I mean, think about from the business side of things. I mean, you saw where Apex what numbers are doing, right? Yeah. Like per month they because they they had some like legal [\h__\h] So, their numbers came out. It was like 17 18 mil a month. Yeah. Yeah. They just paid out my boy Kai like 2.5 mil like two days ago. Yeah. Crazy. So, you know, they're just handing out 2.5 mil. Like Yeah. Wild. But um the essentially the way it works is like let's say if a thousand people buy a challenge. Mhm. And then a challenge is what the test you buy the right you buy the right to take the test. They charge you for it and if you fail you don't get [\h__\h] Yeah. So like that's how they make money is and if you win you get funded. You can you can trade with a certain amount of money depending on what what what size you bought. Like Right. I like I got I got 125k. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And you you could trade what what got me is you could trade with 20 at a time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's the kicker. The thing is too though, it's such an interesting model they have, man. It's a crazy model, bro. Like it's it's like some like fine-tuned to the last decimal of everything. They know exactly what they can get. You know, they're it's a good business. But, uh, you know, essentially you could buy the 20 accounts and you could have up to like you could buy 20 of the 300k accounts of 6 million if you wanted. But the thing is, the higher the accounts you go, the worse the ratio to trailing draw down. They're harder. Yeah. They're more difficult. Yeah. But um yeah, essentially it's just it's a casino, man. Yeah. Cuz I got the 25K and it's it's a $4,000 uh trailing Daryl down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And uh Yeah, that's cool. But it's that's better. It's better than trading with my own money, you know, cuz how much money with the 20 125 times 20? 125k time 20. Nema's agent. How much? What's that? 12. What was it? 100 like how much of my own money would I need to equal that? You say how much is it? It's 125k counts. Oh, 125k counts. 125k counts. 20 of them. Yeah. 20 of those. So it' be like 2.5. Yeah. 2.5 million, I think, right? Is that something like that? That's [\h__\h] [\h__\h] that. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Well, how much is you you trade with your own money? I'm doing right now I'm doing a challenge. I'm doing 50 to a million. I got like 121 actually today like 124. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. So I started in February. You started with with 50K. Yeah. I want to take it to a million. I was just say I did it. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Cuz it's going to be like a crazy thing to say. If you weren't doing the challenge, how how much would you trade with? I would never So I don't look at it like the account size cuz like for example, like some people say risk 1% of your account. Like what the [\h__\h] That's just some like arbitrary thing. Like let's say if I had a million that I wanted to allocate towards trading. I'm not putting the whole million in an account. Yeah. There's no reason to, right? I'll put 100K in account and I might take 5K risk, 10K risk per trade. Yeah. You can make a lot of money doing that. Yeah. Like a lot of money. You know what I mean? So like it really comes down to like how much are you willing to lose? Like what's your trailing draw down? But like you know I've been doing this for so long that like I know I'm not going to just like blow this [\h__\h] Yeah. I mean I guess you never know. You never anything can happen, right? Right. But like cuz if you didn't know then it's like my brain it's like I'm like sticking it to myself like oh if you didn't know go [\h__\h] put a million in. That's what I so but but you know within reason I know that I'm not going to just like lose everything right. So that's the way I go at it. But it's honestly been cool to do this challenge because it did that same thing. It removed cuz 50k. Yeah. Like I mean I'm not going to lose it all but if I did it's just really doesn't matter. You know what I mean? So it's like then it's you removed all the importance. Yeah. And I'm trading it. Like when I was doing the 50, I was risking like $1,000 a trade. Today some I usually risk like 1 to 3,000 a trade. Okay. Um but it's like, you know, like today I only risk a,000, made like 4K, which is like it's not a bunch of money. Yeah. It's like 20 minutes, but it's the compounding into this account. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz it's going to be cool, too, to be able to look back and say, I turned 50K to a minute. I'll come back and watch this. How long you think it's going to take you? I don't know. I ain't put a label on it. If I put a label on, I'll [\h__\h] it up. Yeah. Yeah. Because then it's too much pressure. There's a different north star. Yeah. Everything has got a north star, right? Like if your north star when you start trading is to make money, you probably won't make money. You got a north star be got to be learn how to trade. Yeah. Yeah. So I always think like that like with everything everything at all like every like the business everything's got it you got a north star. You really only got one. You could tell yourself you got like three or four. You really got one. You know what I mean? And that's the same thing in life too. Like you're usually for me it's like I'm either going to be super locked in on money and then like family and other things might falter a little bit the short term or you you know what I mean? So, it's the same thing with the with this account. I just look at it like the million dollar is the only thing. I'm not looking at it like the time it's going to take or how I'm going to get there. I just know I'm going to get there. You just know. So, you don't care if it's this year or next year. No. Okay. I don't think in my head's like man I'm going to try to do it this year. You feel me? But like we'll see. I mean, I've got it already. I've already cuz you look at compounding. I mean, I've already more than doubled it. Almost tripled it already. How long? Since like February. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Like the end of January. Like right January. Yeah. So, it's like I mean I but again I don't want I'm The thing is too I've had a really good performance, right? That's pretty good performance like only risking not going crazy on risk. Um so I also am wise enough to know there will be a downturn at some point. Uh you know what I mean? Maybe it's tomorrow. Maybe it's maybe it starts now. Who knows? It don't matter though because it'll get there. Gotcha. And so you trade with your money. What broker you use? Interactive Brokers. You as Why, man? Honestly, I don't know. They've been [\h__\h] pissing me off recently. The reason I did use them though is because they had high yield uh cash accounts. I used to use them for buying stocks. Got it. I started using M1. You ever use M1? No. Oh, it's sick, bro. It's like a automated stock buying. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, you could Oh, I've heard of it. It's [\h__\h] fire, bro. I honestly I I was a hater on it cuz like for for you you automatic stock buying for like your investment account. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, like you can basically build a pie chart and you can put on that pie chart the percentages of what you want your money to go to and it balances it for you. Yeah. So, like I do I have one account that's like the classic intelligent investor. 50% V, 50% VND. Yeah. So, it's like half bonds, half S&P. The other one I got is like long-term blue chips, but I can like allocate differently and put different amounts towards each every two weeks. Got it. Yeah. I was about to do I was about to use one of them robo investors for my like I have account for my son where I put money in since he was a baby, right? Uh but then what I what I did instead is I got I stopped doing that because I got um I forget the name of you know that life insurance T or IL. Yeah. That kind of life insurance. So you know you can take loans against it or all that [\h__\h] right you know uh later on. So I and they use this they it's it goes by in with the index funds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I started doing that for him. Yeah. Yeah. That's that is the play for kids. I have one for my daughter too. Yeah. But it's like for us it's not the play. It's not the play for me. People be doing it and I like man I I be some people be like acting like they [\h__\h] unlocked the cheat code. You know what I'm saying? You already know what I mean. People be like this you got to do this. This is how you're going to get rich. I'm like rich you ain't get rich from like it's the same thing as but for a kid though he gets to move 100%. Because he my my I don't know how how's your daughter? She's seven. Oh my son is seven. Yeah. Hell yeah. Yeah, man. So it's like, you know, if he wants to [\h__\h] if he's older and he wants to start a business, we I could give him the money, take the loan or you take it from the [\h__\h] life, right? Yeah. And just borrow and it's like non-t taxable. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Or or you know, god forbid something happened to me. You know what I'm saying? Right. He gets he gets a few mill. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? The longer it goes, the more it is. Yeah. The longer it goes, the more it is. Yeah. Yeah. Especially how how young was when you started it? I started that at the end of last year. Nice. Because I didn't know about it. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't really know about I I just was putting money in a a brokerage for him since he was born. Like 2,000 a month, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But that's that's awesome. That's still young as [\h__\h] bro. Yeah, man. All right. Cool. Listen, if somebody Why you feel like people should when they're starting, they should use prop form firms instead of their own money like I did first? Absolutely. Absolutely. Like for sure. Like, and I always tell people too, like just start out with a 25K account just because like when even when you're just learning, like I I put it like this. If you can't afford to do that, you're wasting your time. You're trying to learn. That's not We're talking like a [\h__\h] you people spend less on dumbass subscriptions that they forget about every month. You know what I mean? People somewhere on Hulu and Netflix, you know? So, do that. Learn and try to always The thing people mess up, I think, is they always want to learn a bunch before ever applying it. Oh. and they like prep like they're prepping for the [\h__\h] Olympics or something and they think that, you know, they're going to it's like it's like swimming. Like imagine if like Michael Phelps had wrote a book on swimming. Yeah. If you read the book, but you couldn't swim. Yeah. Are you going to jump in the water and No, you're going to jump be like, "Oh, [\h__\h] I don't know what the [\h__\h] I'm doing." You know, I mean, you got same thing with trading. People like watch all these YouTube videos, buy all these courses, they're like, "I've prepared for six months and now I'll take my first trade and now you begin today." You got to start immediately. Yeah. You know, I even though Jeremy made all that money, we can't say how much it, but it was I think he's going to reveal it tomorrow. Oh, if he reveals we'll see. Yeah. No, but I know that he [\h__\h] spent a year blowing accounts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz he he was even he showed me the emails like exactly how much he spent and how much he returned. Like a crazy amount. Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't as I mean it's it is a crazy amount. Yeah. I mean, but it came up. It came up like crazy, you know. But yeah, you got to get in there. You know, I I I I did when Jeremy was blowing all them accounts, I was like, you know, instead of doing this, I'm just going to paper. That's why I said, "Okay, I'm AI'm a paper trade for two hours." You know, I blew accounts, too, but not as many as Jeremy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But at the same time, I ain't made as much money as Jeremy. You know what I'm saying? Yet, you know, you got to risk it, bro. But yeah. No, I mean it's it is still crazy to go to that many as when you're in it because you don't know if it's going to come out. That's the thing, you know, like you told me you was looking at this [\h__\h] like, "Yo, should I do this shit?" Oh, you know what? You got a super chat. Somebody wanted to ask you a question. Oh [\h__\h] We have Leo. Yo, Casper, big respect to you. What do you advise someone do if they are getting better at this skill to lower expenses? I'm thinking about living in a cheap in a cheap city country. Any other thoughts? Hey, first off, thank you, man. I appreciate you. So, I would say this, like if I understand the question right, like if you're getting better at it to lower expenses, you know, that was shout out to Leonardo, man. He do his thing. I think he want to, you know what I'm saying? Listen, sometimes we got to decode the questions, man. Sometimes sometimes it's like the Riddler is asking us questions, man. But I think I think he means he wants to get better at trading, but he also wants to lower expenses, right? Is that how you interpret it? Yeah. No, so I would say like I mean if you want to like lower expenses in trading like in business or life I think he I think he must learn to trade while he's lowering expenses in life cuz I I be talking about that for people. Yeah, I talk about that. Perfect thing to do. Yeah, cuz like at that point, I mean, like the best way to get good at anything, man, is stop going out and waste somebody on dumb [\h__\h] Yeah. Stop going out to the clubs and like going out to eat all the [\h__\h] time. Like that's the biggest thing, too. So, this dude's a G. He got another cuz I'll be telling people if you broke, man, get get a second job with the third job all the time. And he started driving Uber and [\h__\h] you know? Like, this dude is cool. He show up every That's what I did. I drove Door Dash whenever all that [\h__\h] happened. I had happened. I drove Door Dash. Yeah, we gonna get into that in a minute. But like, yeah, I wish I wish Georgia ass existed when I was broke cuz I when I was broke it was in ' 08. None of that we MySpace. Yeah, for real. My none of this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] ain't had smartphones yet. Yeah. No, but I I would say, man, like I would I would say just stay locked in. Commit yourself to like putting your phone away for like two hours a day and, you know, don't even buy anything to try to just learn on trading. Just just watch it. Like you could watch enough on YouTube to at least get your feet wet. Don't spend a bunch of money on proper account. just go buy a 25K Apex account while you're watching. Take notes on everything you learn. Try to write down what you don't know and go out and try to apply it and see what you can do and just kind of take it day by day. Man, that's what I I would say is the the biggest piece of advice for that to balance out the lowering expenses. He wants to know if he should move to a cheap country or a cheap city or I give you man I look I look like this man. I think when you like I'll give you an example like this. Let's say if a business is having a downturn, what's the worst thing it can do? Cut off. Cut off marketing. Stop spending money on marketing. Exactly. You know, people. So, it's the same thing I think with life to a point. Yeah. You know, I mean, like I understand though at the other end of that, I'm not saying you should go move to like Dubai or you know, but like I wouldn't change everything just to that like I don't know your situation, you know? Yeah. Like while lowering expenses. I mean, you could do that, you know, just just just trade with like a smaller amount. But I would say, you know, like if you're in a big city, do you know where Leonardo lives? I don't know where Leonardo lives. If you're in a big city, I would say this, like if I'm if anybody's like in New York City, I hear like or in Miami even in certain areas and you're not there yet, you got to go somewhere a little cheaper. Yeah. You know what I mean? You don't want to go like out to nowhere. Yeah. But like somewhere a little cheaper for sure. Yeah. As long as it's not a struggle. Yeah. I was living in New York City, but it was in Queens though. deep in coins initially. So it wasn't like it wasn't Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, I offset it because I didn't have a car. I got rid of my car, so I was I just needed a metro card, man. It was like $100 for the month. Get all around the city, man. Wherever I needed to go. And uh that was helpful, you know. Um and also I know you drive Uber, Leonardo. Yo, driving Uber in some of these other city in in a [\h__\h] city not going to be as lucrative. That's true. You should look it up. You should What cities do Uber drivers make the most money? If you live in the big cities, I'm I'm assuming endless work. Yeah. Yeah. Spend I what I I I think I read that the average New York City uh Uber driver who does it fulltime making like 80k. Yeah, I'm sure. I'm sure, bro. Yeah. Yo yo yo yo. Uh me know you uh [\h__\h] chat GPT that [\h__\h] and let me know if I'm right. All right. All right. All right. Yo, that's what's up. Shout out to you, Leonardo. Um, now you know, man, when I was researching for this interview, I was like, "Oh, this is my boy Jesse." Cuz we know each other from Jeremy. We both spoke at his mastermind and stuff the homie and uh and then oh, also Amber. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? And um so we got mutual friends, mutual colleagues, business partners and [\h__\h] And uh I was I was like, "Man, let me find out some more information about the homie." And then uh what I what I saw was Yeah. Okay. Uber drivers make between in New York City between Okay. 48 and 50 grand doing it full-time. That's like the average price though, right? That's the average. Yeah. It's like the higher Yeah. Yeah. And that's that's 40 hours though, right? So if you 40 you [\h__\h] you you ain't hustling if you working 40 hours. Yeah. Yeah, that don't even happen in the movies. [\h__\h] don't come up working 40 hours, you know. That [\h__\h] don't even happen in Hollywood, you know. All right, but anyway, I was researching this, man. And I come mug shots. Yeah. Came up, man. Can you tell us about that, man? What' you get arrested for, man? What's a nice such a nice guy like you? Long story short, I caught what? A state level RICO case for marijuana and cocaine and moneyaundering. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. But I beat most of the charges. You beat the charges? And I didn't beat all of them, but I beat the levels, like the amounts, cuz the way they charge it. So, it's a state case. I won't get too crazy in this part, especially don't say nothing. Yeah. And I'm good. Like, I already talked to my lawyer about this cuz I went on Fresh and Fit and talked about crazy. Um, long story short, they did not put together a case that was like undeniable, right? So, there were some things that were more allegedly than they could, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. So that and then there were a lot of different like I could talk for like an hour like about all the little details of it. I went through one lawyer, I fired him, had to hire a new lawyer, a team of lawyers, right? Fought the case for three years and I ended up Yeah. beating most of it, right? I got I mean I got a felony and I got put on probation. Yeah. Yeah. So but if it would have went federal, I'd have been [\h__\h] Okay. Long story short though, I'll kind of go real high level kind of journey here. Mhm. So when I I grew up um my parents were well off right whenever I was very young but then in 2008 lost everything cuz my dad was in corporate sales. Oh yeah. So we went from like I had a similar story. My dad I was poor growing up and then by the time I went to high school by the time I graduated high school well in high school my dad my dad started making money. Like we were struggling south side of Chicago we was like just struggling and I got sent away to military school. And by the time I graduated his business started working. He was making $3 million a year. Damn. In 2000. That's crazy. So that's like $8 million a year in today's money, right? And then I went to college and by the time I got out of college, he lost it all and then he killed himself uh right before the recession. Oh, you know what I'm saying? Cuz he had he was in [\h__\h] crazy debt, you know? So it's like we was broke, then we was rich, then we was broke, and then we was super broke. Like in debt, like then we was in the negative, right? You know what I'm saying? Uh so I I I I I feel that. Yeah. Yeah. That's That's crazy. I didn't know cuz coming from being rich is is is like a It's one thing to be poor at life. You get accustomed to it, but then you get rich. You can't go broke. Yeah. I didn't really luckily I didn't really experience it. But I think that's why my dad killed himself because he experienced it. Yeah. I was away at high school, military school, then in college. So, I knew what happened, but I wasn't getting none of the benefits of it. I wasn't experiencing it, but he [\h__\h] lived it and then lost it. And I think that was too much. But anyway, that's crazy. I didn't know. I'm sorry to hear that, man. Yeah, but still. Yeah. But anyways, like the the the we weren't rich by any means. It was like middle class, upper middle class. Had a nice house, lived in like a, you know, nice neighborhood. Then that [\h__\h] happened. Lost the house, lost all the cars, everything. Yeah. Cuz they were overleveraged, too. Like, you know, they they weren't in a good position to have anything bad happen. Uh, moved to another area that wasn't the best area. They started My mom had to get a job, too, cuz she didn't have to work most of my life. And at this point, you know, I was uh like 12, right? So, I started smoking weed. I was 11, actually. I was about to turn 12. I started smoking weed at the neighbors, these older kids. Kind of crazy looking back. These [\h__\h] like, "Why are they smoking weed with an 11-year-old neighbor?" You know what I'm saying? Like, like, how old were they? They're like 16, 15. Smoking weed with the kids. Like, man, whenever I was 16, I was, you know, in that life and stuff, but like if 11-year-old walked up like, "Get the [\h__\h] out of here. Get the [\h__\h] out of here." I always I always think about that. I'm like, "What? What were they doing?" Insane. But yeah, they they smoke weed me like get me drinking and [\h__\h] So, I got I got into that life. Um, and then like real quick though, like I realized cuz I used to ask I'd be like, "Why why does this happen? Like what what's going on?" Like, "Where the [\h__\h] all this stuff?" I was playing travel ball. I'm like, "What's going on?" Like, "Why? Why is this happening?" And then like my dad would just be like, "You don't understand. Like, don't ask me again. It has to do with money." I remember him saying, "Don't ask me again. You don't understand it. You're too young." So, in my mind, I'm like, "I want to make a bunch of money." Like whenever I was that age, I remember they'd be like, "What do you want to be when you grow up at school?" Kids would be like some random [\h__\h] I'm sitting here. I'm like I felt bad because I was like, "I don't know, but I just want to be rich." Yeah. It's all I knew. I didn't give AI was like, "Do y'all actually give a fuck?" Like astronaut. How much that pay? That sounds [\h__\h] You know what I mean? You know what I mean? Like that's all I thought about this [\h__\h] paper, man. Literally. So like that [\h__\h] was ingrained in me from a very deep deep level, right? So, like not even like a desire to do it to be glamorous, but like a desire to not go through what I saw my dad go through cuz my dad, my mom, you know, you know how that [\h__\h] goes, right? Yeah. Did they stay together? Yeah, man. It's still together now. Oh, man. That's wild. That's awesome, man. Yeah. Hell yeah, man. Yeah. No, they uh they uh they they pushed it through. But whenever that happened, I got into that life and then I started thinking like, okay, you know, I saw people trapping and stuff and I was like, you know, at that time too, this is like that [\h__\h] was like really glamorized. What year was this? This was 200 when I was like 13, so like 2009, 2010. Oh yeah. Yeah. 2010. Like 2010. Um, and at that point I started like I had kids that I used to box with. So I boxed for like seven years and I boxed at the the only boxing was for the projects. M so I went to the city and like they would pick me up from the Boys and Girls Club because my parents worked. I go there, they pick me up and I would go to the city and this is like more in the city and I went to a school that was in more in the country. So like these kids were like paying tax assass weed prices. They didn't have no good weed, right? And when I went to the city, I was boxing with like a bunch of older kids. They were all like as the projects like all of them were trapping at the gym, in the car. I mean the older kids. So I would get weed from that and then I would go and sell it for like way higher. Ah yeah. So that was immediately like I was like, "Oh, I can smoke weed for free and maybe make a little bit." And to save like a long journey from there, that escalated like crazy. Okay. You know, throughout high school, I was getting in trouble in high school. I was balling in high school, bro. Balling. Balling. And like I was going to Cali, making trips. I was like 16. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. I was like, you know, doing all that. And then that all escalated, right? I moved to Cali when I turned 18 because I wanted to get legit. I wanted to get out. I also got hooked on like drugs and [\h__\h] like pills, like Xanaxes. Okay. Not like cra like I was like injecting something. I was just all [\h__\h] up, you know? Um, partying and [\h__\h] So, I was like, I got to get out of here. Went to Cali, started my own weed company. Okay. Like a farm like that. Like a legit some legit. Yeah. But I mean, every legit coning Cali is not. I'd say like most of them. But essentially, I did that for a while and was legit. And then I had a daughter when I was out there. So I was like, I don't want to be out here with my daughter, you know, cuz like there's all sorts of [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] that happens in that game. Like you get robbed. Yeah. If you got to grow and everybody knows you're the dude that people get robbed, people get killed for that [\h__\h] So I was like, you know, I had a kid in the house, so I was like, I don't want to do this no more. Not out here. I was like, you're going to you clean your life up. Also, right around this time, like a year before that was when I started when I got rich off crypto. Oh, okay. Good. So I got So this So tying this back in. Okay. So in 2016, my daughter was born in 2017. 2016 was whenever I kind of like came up in that. So I came up So you you made like a few hundred grand. Yeah. And I'm like I'm I'm the man, you know what I mean? I got it. Like I'm I'm a trader now. I don't have to do this [\h__\h] no more. Yeah. I can do I can trade, right? So I thought I'm going to move home. I'm going to be able to trade. I can get out of the game. But man, like that's why we say getting caught was the best thing that ever happened to me because if it wasn't for that, I wouldn't be sitting right here. uh like I would and I wouldn't have made any of the amount of like like I mean I end up losing everything that I made in that game which I'll get to in a second but I make way more [\h__\h] money now like not even close like you used to think like it's funny a lot of the people that are in that like think they're getting money it's like no you're not you know what I mean so um I move back home but you're not really ever out of the game man like it's a now it's like a power addiction and you're the dude you're going to the club ass money it's funny I'll show you a picture my old self bro like I'd be wearing and like the Bape hoodie with the big ass Cuban chain, bust down AP, Balenciaga shoes, complete different vibe. It's like I look at I'm like, who was this kid, dude? I was a complete different person, man. So, I was like going to the clubs. I was the dude, you know, going like shutting the club down like 30 deep, all that. So, I was addicted to that, you know what I mean? So, um I came home, tried to say I was not going to be in it. Got out it for a while, right? But then got back into it, got into some trouble and I was losing all my money in crypto, right? So when I got into trouble, I tried I was like, "All right, [\h__\h] You say you're going to come home and get out. You've now came home, [\h__\h] up your money, gotten into trouble again. Like, what are you doing?" So then I was like, "I'm going to get into sales." My dad was into sales. I'm going to get out of this [\h__\h] Get into sales. So I literally went from doing all that to being a doortodoor appointment setter. Yeah. For a solar company. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. And I was like, "This shit's easy." Cuz I was slick with it. Like I mean, at first it was kind of hard. Then I started like making up a new pitch. I had the slickest pitch, man. It was funny. Like they had this dumbass pitch. It was like, "Hey, have you heard about the solar energy initiative?" Like, it's door slam. I would I I went and bought a uh construction vest and a clipboard. Oh. And I bought a construction hat. And I would go and I would knock on the door and I'd step back and look at the house. I'm just looking at it. And people would be like, "What the [\h__\h] this dude doing? They're going to open the door." Yeah. So, I'd open the door and I'd be like, "How you doing? You the homeowner?" Yeah. And they're like, "Yeah, I am." Like, cuz that's that was a qualifying question. I'm like, "Okay, okay." Um Yeah. I'm just taking a look. We got some trucks in the neighborhood doing some surveys going around uh seeing we got some houses eligible for this program. Um what are you paying power per month? Oh, but like dude it worked like crazy cuz people are like they're hooked. It's curiosity, right? So then I started crushing it with that ascended up became a closer was like the top three closers in the whole company the whole like nation for a long time and then I became a sales manager ended up quitting and uh started my own solar company. Okay. But then I failed. Uh completely failed. Sales people are not always good at business. Yeah, man. Yeah. No, at that time at that time sometimes it's the [\h__\h] the opposite. It's the opposite. Yeah. And like at that time like I mean I we did good for a little while but then it failed, right? I mean that's a lot of businesses, right? But then I said and at this time also too uh the mother and me mother my child and I split up. Okay. So I felt like I was like dude, holy [\h__\h] You've came full circle from all this [\h__\h] You made a bunch of money. Lost it all. Mhm. You So you've made money and lost it a bunch of times at this point. Yeah. I've gone I've gone from Okay, so from seven figures of broke once before and from six figures to broke once before that. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. Now it feels good cuz I know I ain't never going broke again. You know what I mean? But the the uh the last time so so whenever I that company failed, right? And the mother of my child and I just split up. Didn't work out. And at that point I'm like, "Damn, you done [\h__\h] up. You done [\h__\h] up your family." I was like, "You piece of shit." Like I was depressed. And I said, "Man, [\h__\h] this shit." How was your daughter at this time? Um, this was 2019. Okay. So, she was two. Yeah. You know what I mean? And, um, this like late 2019, but so then I was like, I'm going, you know, actually, no, no, that's Yeah. No, it was like early 2019. So, I was like, I'm going full back into the game, right? So, I said, [\h__\h] everything. I'm going full in. That's when [\h__\h] got really crazy. Yeah. Really, really crazy. Right. And I went into that like till like right around like early 2020. And then there was like a lot of stuff going on. Um, I mean because it was like I, you know, I caught a big case. We'll see. There was emotion, right? So, and then there was like, uh, rumors and [\h__\h] of people, there was things happening like where people were saying like people were getting raided and then they're saying like, yo, they're asking about you. So, I'm like, I got to get the [\h__\h] out of here. I went back to Cali. Yeah. So, this is like early 2020. This is when I went like full into trading. So, I bought into that. It was crazy, bro. I remember I was So, there was actually a guy in the Cali plug. He's like a big trapper. Okay. In Cali, right? super like famous in that world. Um, and I saw on his Snapchat a ad for a Discord about trading. And I'm like, bro, this is like godscent [\h__\h] Yeah. It was the craziest moment. I was like, I like this is your son. Cuz I was like, I was trying to I was getting my idea. I was going to buy exotic cars and rent them. What a [\h__\h] dumbass business. You know what I mean? Like just I was just finding anything that I thought I could do to get out of it because at that time I was like, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So, um, essentially I found I got I was like, "Okay, I got this Discord. I joined it." That's where I really started to take trading serious. And that's where we kind of get to that part of the story earlier. I started taking trading serious. But as I was getting into trading and taking it serious, come 2021, after all this shit's been like dead for a while and I thought I was good. Raid. Oh, yeah. And then they raided 26 other people or 25. 26 total. They went and found you in Cali. Yeah. Oh, they hit me all in Cali. Oh, it was the feds. Yeah. No, it's Tennessee. Oh, really? Is that crazy? Yeah. Yeah. So, but they wanted the feds to pick it up, but the feds looked at the case and were like, "It's not strong enough. We don't want to We don't That's where my life saved." Oh, yeah. Cuz the Oh, I'd be done. I'd be in prison right now, for sure. Yeah. But, um, it's a kind of young thugs thing. The thugs The feds didn't pick up young Thugs either. He Right. But, um, yeah. So, essentially um, when that happened, I get I lost everything in in multitudes of ways as you can imagine what was happening, right? Yeah. Um got I had to stay in Cali jail for um like and this where like my life changed. Jail or prison? Jail. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it was Riverside County. Um and Riverside County. You ever county? No. Yeah. It's not It's not very It's not a friendly, you know, jail. Like it's not a good county to go to jail in. Yeah. The best jail I've been in is uh Man, I think Austin Austin, Texas has a nice jail. You know what I'm saying? I'm not a big fan of any New York jails, you know? And then really Central Bookings is like probably one of my least favorite places on earth. But uh Austin has a nice jail. I'm sorry. Go on. I see I see Hay Hayek in the chat. I see him somewhere. Somebody said hi. Hi. He's the homie, man. Oh, that's what's up. Yeah, he's cool. No, but um essentially I had to since I was like a they they labeled me as a fugitive from Justice because I was out of state. So then I had to go to like a high security unit. M but it was almost comical cuz when I went in there they were like like it was a bunch of gang members. Yeah. But it was like so funny that I was in there that they didn't even [\h__\h] with me. They were more like what the [\h__\h] is this dude doing here? Like they like thought it was funny, you know? But they were cool as [\h__\h] man. I always joke like people are like, "Man, I bet that'd be so sketchy." I'm like, "Bro, they were like the nicest people ever." How long did you stay in it? 40 days. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. So like 40 days waiting. They never knew when I was going to come back. Yeah. You know what I mean? And like that's like 23 in, one out. And you know, it's like [\h__\h] Cali jail, bro. It's not like not a good I mean, jail's jail, but but anyways, came home. Um I hired one lawyer and basically fought the case for quite a long time with him. Uh and then ended up firing him because he was just full of [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Like he literally filed like two motions the entire time and told me he filed more motions. Also, the motions he filed, it was some politics [\h__\h] bro. For sure. Because it was the biggest case in that countyy's history. Oh, wow. Against you. Yeah. Oh [\h__\h] So that was like and it's not a big area either, but it's a city, you know, Johnson City, Tennessee. But uh the um essentially uh he just wasn't doing [\h__\h] So I fired him after I figured this out and I hired You ever seen the movie Masterminds by Zack G with Zack Galvanas in it? No. It's like a the bank robber. That's like the the You'll have to I think you were Yeah. Yeah. But it's based on the dude who was like the second largest bank robber in America. Okay. I got his lawyer. Oh wow. Yeah. Not because of that, but it was just like by chance. That's how I always But null, shout out to null, man. [\h__\h] saved my life. But uh your big No, man. Yeah. Him and his whole like team of lawyers, right? Because it's like a six lawyers total. So like it was a craziest movie. It was like a movie. I was in the court when I had to fire the lawyer. And I because they told me, "This is your last court date. If you don't plead, you go plead, you get eight years. If you don't plead, you're going to trial. The minimum you'll get 15." And I was like, "I can't [\h__\h] plead to eight years, dude." like cuz they didn't I was like I knew in my head and my heart like I and also by this time I'm like coming up on YouTube and nobody really knows it because I didn't come out with it. I didn't talk about it. You know what I mean? As I'm sure you saw like there's like people trying to make hit pieces on me and [\h__\h] which like now I just you know it is what it is. But I didn't lead with it because I didn't want to be described as that. Never hit it. Like there were a lot of my friends that knew about it. All the people in the play bit community which is the discord everybody knew about it because when that happened I was a coach. They're like damn free Casper. You know what I like a whole movement. So, it wasn't like a secret, but it wasn't like, you know, not something you want to [\h__\h] lead with. Yeah. Right. Yeah. But I look back put your [\h__\h] worst foot forward. Yeah. For no reason. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly, man. And like even now, like talking about like by no means do I mean it's glamorizing. Yeah. You just No, I actually No. Yeah. Yeah. No, I know. I always be clear with that too cuz like I want people to know like [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] you know? I'm so glad I'm out of that. Best thing that ever happened to me getting caught. But um essentially I had to go in the the court and then they were like this is your last date before you uh go to trial. Mhm. And on that day I had to go in front of the judge like when they you know it's your turn they stand up. Yeah. In the middle of everyone talking I say excuse me your honor and now they look at you they're like what did you just [\h__\h] say [\h__\h] peasant? You know what I mean? They're like you're speaking you know but uh and I was like I have to make it notice known to the court that I'm relieving Mr. Bowen to my council. Oh, and everyone's like, "Bro, people are like moving." It's like some movies. People are moving books like, you know, like the murmuring and [\h__\h] It was literally like that. And they're like, "What the fuck?" And then the the judge looks at me and like smiles almost like it's like, "Okay, who who's representing you?" And at that moment, like all six lawyers stand up and they're like, "Oh, behind you." Yeah. They're in the the the like the seats. Yeah. They're like, "We'll take it from here." Yeah. They're like, "We'll take it from here." You're on. They walk up and they like start open their suitcases. Yeah. And the judge looked at me and was like, "Okay." Like she was And it was like almost like a form of respect. She used to be a big criminal defense lawyer. I think she's like, "He ain't he's not [\h__\h] playing." Yeah. But he's he's a psycho cuz like that was a crazy move, you know? Like at that point, like, but I looked at I was like this. Like to me, I was like 8 years and 15. In my head, the same thing was a death sentence. [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] It was a death sentence, you know? And I was like had blown up on YouTube. My trading at this point, I did like 600k trading. M I was like life was amazing other than this and it was this crazy like reality where everybody that didn't know my past was so happy for me but everyone that did know my past was so worried for me at that time were you trading with Apex or your own money? No I was trading with my forex funds before futures firms were like as big. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. So um but yeah man it was the craziest [\h__\h] thing man. And then then you went to trial with the new lawyers. No I didn't go to trial. Oh really? No no no. So I didn't go to trial. So they ended up uh dropping it the last So then I fought the case for another year. Right. But then with the new lawyers, they filed so many motions that the last lawyer didn't do that by the time that it was like what was permissible, the different like all the mechanics of the case, there wasn't really a case wasn't strong enough. Yeah. Yeah. And and really cuz like I never got caught with nothing. Like not anything. I got $1,200, bro. $1,200. Yeah. Yeah. Like but you're going to say that I was like a [\h__\h] king. And then then also like a witness uh retracted their statement last minute. So there was a lot of complicated things that happened, you know what I mean? But um yeah, so essentially they basically finally at the and it was pushing all the way to the next time where they saying they were like this is the last court date before we go to trial. And I was like well I'm not pleading. Yeah. And then this is the last court date before I go to trial. I'm not pleading. Then they kept like pushing it off. And also too my uh lawyer leveraged like my business and my success to them. They're like, "Look, like this guy isn't like just out here like some, you know, he ain't going to be out here like causing problems. He doesn't even live here anymore." Yeah. Like he's not going to be And then like he was like trying to negotiate with them. Kept say playing that card, kept playing like we'll pay any fines. They didn't even like want to do any crazy fines. Um, but yeah, eventually it got to the point they filed like 27 motions and there was so much evidence that was either suppressed or non-admissible or uh a witness that was not credible or a witness that like made up stuff or that they we they found like inconsistencies in one thing they said cuz then they would interview them cuz like really when a lawyer goes to to work for you very few things they actually can't do. That's one thing I learned is it's really just about how much do you pay your lawyer and how much do they actually care because there's almost always something in a case that's that complex. Yeah. Almost always. So he found something and then I ended up I still got a felony. Um and I got six years probation. Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. But I mean dude what was the felony for? Uh cocaine possession to re with intent to resell or conspiracy to conspiracy to possess and resell cocaine. Ah so you couldn't vote. Nah, you can't. You know, every time people ask me, "Man, who you who you vote for?" I was like, "Man, I can't vote." Oh, you you got to No, I just Oh, oh, [\h__\h] They say, "Why? Why you can't vote?" I say, "Man, Lenise." And then I don't tell them what. It's just like a little fun thing I've been doing ever since ever since I turned 18. That's funny. That's funny as [\h__\h] bro. That's funny. But, uh, yo, that's what's up, though, man. Hey, thank you, man. Yeah, I'm grateful every day. That's a success story right there, man. Yeah, man. I appreciate it, bro. I was just talking to my boy Jordan. You know Jordan Welch? Oh yeah, I know. Yeah, I was talking to Jordan. He said that's what he I was talking I told him I was going to come on here and he was just like, "Man, that's just like you're so you should be so grateful." And I was told him I was like, "Bro, look, I remember thinking about like being grateful and like you talk about all that [\h__\h] Bro, I swear to God, every day I wake up, every [\h__\h] day I literally It's not even about money or anything. I'm just like you almost were [\h__\h] Yeah. And it motivates me. So I'm like I almost feel like if I don't give some like if I don't really like go next level, I'm like that's a waste of life. I'm glad you don't glamorize this [\h__\h] too. No. Hell no. It's terrible. When you stopped, let me let me ask you a question. When you stopped, didn't it didn't it feel like like a huge weight when you stopped even before the before you got the the fed before the the law came, right? When the night I was in jail, I felt the biggest relief in my life. I swear to God. Like the first night I was in jail, even though I knew, I didn't even know what I'd been charged with really. They just told me because like when they read me as a guy, they're like, "You're on an unsealed indictment for I was like, "Fuck." Yeah. What is it? But I still felt this relief because in my mind when you're in that life, no matter how much money you make, you can't enjoy a second of your life because you either have to worry about somebody coming after you, you have to worry about the cops, you have to worry about somebody trying to rob you, kill you. And you never really live. living like from the time I was 13 until that point, I never experienced what like a normal life at all even was. It feels like what I when I describe it to people, it feels like you're going, you know, when you're going that first drop on a roller coaster. You know that feeling you feel before it goes down. It feels like that 24 hours, right? Feels like that. 24 hours and it's like I don't want to get into my [\h__\h] right? But like it's like when you when you you know I was I was involved in a lot of things you know what people who know me know the story and then what happened one of my boys uh my boys got sent to prison double homicide you know uh and then my other boy Esco got murdered right you know ops and then then my dad killed himself and I was like damn you know what man let me make sure everything I'm doing is legit at this point you I just turn turn [\h__\h] around cuz and anyway without going into too much detail, right? And u I mean this, you know, statute limitations a long time ago, but you know, whatever. I don't want people to go looking and [\h__\h] And anyway, uh I just remember when I when I made that decision, it just feel like, you know what I'm saying? When like when you dude, it's like it's like almost like you're thankful that it's forced because you know deep down you're never going to stop. like you'll never stop if if something doesn't force you because you're addicted not only to the money because it's not even the money. It's the power and the fame or the notoriety and like the the bad boy [\h__\h] Like that's really what it what I realized. I didn't think that when I was active. People want to lie and say that it's not that. But like if you're going to be that level at that, dude, you could kill it in business. Yeah. If you just had the balls to quit and take that like six months hiatus of not making money to learn. But yeah, man. It was like the craziest relief. But then, but to be clear though, once I [\h__\h] realize I was charged with each other, it was not really. Then I was like, oh my god, I was like, I got never. Yeah. I was I was like, man, I got to I was like, now I got to just [\h__\h] make as much I mean, I looked at it like as a death sentence and at the early stage, you know what I mean? I was like, now I got to make a bunch of money to put away for my daughter. That's how I went in this crazy like state of mind. I was like, I'm dead pretty much, you know? But um that also like made me not give a [\h__\h] about nothing. I just went hard, you know? Uh but I also got like there's there's a whole lot of I I sold I started a trucking company while I was uh not started I I got into a trucking company with my boy. Yeah. You invested in automation [\h__\h] No. Hell no. That [\h__\h] was all a scam. It's automation. You left it there. Yeah. All this. No. But um the uh I remember there was that one that was Anyway, I don't even drop the name. But it's so [\h__\h] [\h__\h] But uh man, essentially like I had a friend who he already had a dump truck business and I knew people that wanted to invest from that discord from my discord. They wanted they they had paper that wanted to invest. So I linked it up and we started a trucking company. We ran it up to like 10 trucks but then we got completely [\h__\h] by an investor and then that caused like a liquidity problem and ended up blowing up. But it was kind of crazy. We actually were pretty successful with it for a short time. But after that happened, this is while I'm fighting the case. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. because they told me they said you have to get a job or some kind of legal sustainable something to stay out on bond. Ah, and I trading didn't count. You came like, "Oh, I'm trading crypto on Binance, dude." Yeah. Like Yeah. Yeah. You know, but um Yeah. But but uh Yeah. So that was why I did that. But then when that failed, I got super [\h__\h] depressed, bro. I got fat as [\h__\h] You know how I was 200. So right now I'm like 185, 186. Yeah. I was 260 lbs. Oh [\h__\h] at the end of 2022. Oh wow. Yeah. I was a fat [\h__\h] bro. How'd you lose weight? Dude, psycho [\h__\h] Like I used to box, so I I unhealth like bro, I went from eating I was being like, bro, I'm not [\h__\h] with it's like disgust even saying that. I was ordering like Door Dashing like Sonic like Sonic Sonic Blast and like double cheeseburgers and [\h__\h] on some real [\h__\h] I didn't think Sonic was a real place like cuz ain't none in New York. And I was like, "Yo, man, this [\h__\h] what are all these commercials? Is this [\h__\h] this [\h__\h] can't be [\h__\h] real?" cuz I had never seen the Sonic in New York. I like this [\h__\h] is not [\h__\h] real, man. This is elaborate scam. No, it's real, bro. I used to eat that [\h__\h] I used to eat that [\h__\h] I was drinking. I drink like those wines with my girl. Uh it's crazy, too. The the my fiance I met her when I was like before that happened, like before the trucking company. I met her when I was like down bad. Yeah. So, like that's the only girl I ever got with that when I was like broke. Oh, your current fiance. Oh, that's what's up. Shout shout out to her, man. Shout out. Yeah, I know, bro. But um I I basically after all that [\h__\h] happened, I got super depressed. I was like drinking we were drinking like $7 bottles of wine from like the [\h__\h] Food City, bro. I swear down smoking vapes. I was smoking those nicotine vapes like like crazy, bro. Like I was smoking like one of them a day. You [\h__\h] stressed out, man. Yeah, bro. Literally. And and then I remember I got to a point where I realized I was like, "Dude, there's no chance you're going to beat this." cuz I got to a point also too where I I remember but it's like it sounds corny but I I remember I listened to David Gogggin's book and it wasn't the first time I read it can't hurt me can't hurt me and I remember I was just so disgusted with myself I was like you're being such a [\h__\h] ass [\h__\h] this isn't you've never cuz I've always preached the opposite of that like go hard be the you know like no tolerance for like any kind of [\h__\h] mediocrity my dad was like that my dad was crazy about that [\h__\h] like sports or anything like there was no room for like you know anything but the best which is like the I used to hate when I was AI'm so grateful for it now. It makes you crazy, you know? But I And then I started realizing I was like, "Bro, who have you become? You become this weak ass [\h__\h] sack of skin. You fat [\h__\h] [\h__\h] dominoes and Sonic." I was like, "Man, I swear to God." I listened to that book, bro. I literally went I ordered a sauna suit on Amazon. It's what I used to do to cut weight in boxing. Started running my fat ass down the road. I was running. I was so crazy, bro. The gym. I would run to the gym like like and I'm in Tennessee, too. You got to remember here it's probably like, you know, that's not like, you know, you're running to you're running down the [\h__\h] highway, bro. I'm out here. My fat ass is in a trash bag. You can't just there not you can't like walk around. Yeah. So, I'm running to the gym. I couldn't even run a half mile, dude. I would run a half my ankles. Felt like I had sprained them. Yeah. And I I just kept doing I kept I'd run I'd stop and I knew I mean I I had been in shape before in my life, so I knew how to work out. But I was running to the gym. I'd work out every day. I was eating like a thousand calories a day. Oh [\h__\h] Like I I lost like 40 50 pounds in like four months. Yeah, you did. But it was a lot of it was water weight and like you know just being a fat [\h__\h] it hard to lose weight. Um but I cut down a lot of it and then really since then I just been like on more of a normal style. You keto now cuz we talked about you said it was keto and we was talking about keto. Um how's that been? I've lost so since I've done keto I've lost like seven pounds. Yeah. Congrats. So it's like Right. Good. It's a little on the high end. Yeah. Some of it might some of it's water because when you when you cut carbs, you immediately lose a lot of water. Right. Exactly. You know, so some of it's water, right? I've been doing it right though. I don't like I didn't get the keto food cuz I did the I was using a lot of electrolytes. Make sure I got all my potassium, all my magnesium, sodium. Make sure you're tracking your calories, right? Yeah. Hell yeah. Yeah. Cuz I remember you talking about I was like, make sure you get cuz I never got the [\h__\h] keto flu because I [\h__\h] track my make a lot of times people don't eat enough calories. Yeah. Absolutely. I'm Dude, I'm only like 1500. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Cuz you're not hungry. It's No, I'm starving. Oh, really? I'm [\h__\h] bro. Listen, I could I earlier I went to Kasatua. I ate a [\h__\h] 14 oz New York strip. I was like, "Fuck it. I want to eat three of these [\h__\h] things right now, man. I'm I love eating." But the electrolytes are really helping you. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that that's the one thing, you know, we didn't have all when I first started keto, it wasn't no LMT or none of that [\h__\h] so I would just put salt in some water or drink some [\h__\h] chicken broth when I felt like wheezy or something. The chicken bone broth and [\h__\h] is like Yeah. Yeah. That's a That's the play. Like, but uh man, by the way, that [\h__\h] ketone aid [\h__\h] You got me, bro. That [\h__\h] is like [\h__\h] crack, bro. Yeah. In a good way, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like like aderall. Come on, man. Let's go, bro. I drink I drank I It was crazy. I drank that uh I was on like an empty stomach. Yeah. You That That's what That's That's when it really works on empty stomach. Like fasted probably about 16 hours. Yeah. And I I remembered I'd ordered them and I was like, "I'm going to drink these before I work." I drank it and I kind of forgot. I drank some coffee, too. Yeah. Oh, with the caffeine. Yeah. And Theonine. Yeah. Theanine is like a good snack with the caffeine, too. It kind of like makes you But, dude, I was [\h__\h] locked. And I feel like I was on Limitless, bro. That's how it feels, man. The ketone aid, the [\h__\h] tastes like [\h__\h] garbage, right? Yes. You said gorilla piss. I was like, I see where you got that. Yeah. But if you mix it with when I mix it with the LMT, it's more palatable. Yeah. It's still But you you you feel that energy. Yeah, man. No, it was it was crucial, man. But it was it was wild. But but yeah, no, it's it's been good, man. Like I I like for example, I got I'm going to go out to eat tonight at Osaka. Okay. And I'm going to eat just straight steak. It's easy to say keto here. It's easy, bro. Back home, you can't even eat out, but it's fine. I don't really eat out. I don't know, man. I go down south some and I'm You You can go to steakhouse, you Longhorn steakhouse. That's what I'm saying. You like, but it's Yeah, but it's like, you know, or like barbecue places. Yeah, barbecue is very don't just don't get like the sauce or or in and just um so like I I'll order Uber Eats when I'm down south cuz my son lives in Georgia, right? So I'm there all the time and I just order barbecue, you know what I'm saying? Don't put no sauce on my ribs. It's all good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can make it happen here. I've just been eating straight steak, avocado, eggs. That's the [\h__\h] That's it. What made you go keto? Honestly, because I hit a plateau and like I got to like this area I was like 195. M and I just like bro I was eating like 1,300 calories a day sometimes and I wasn't losing much weight. I don't know what it was. Maybe it was like I think also too other big shift I made and this is like kind of nasty but I started just boiling chicken instead of like I know right instead of eating butter or anything on it. Oh wow. Gross. It's disgust. I mean it's not it's actually I I douse that [\h__\h] with Sriracha. Like my meals will be like I'll do like 150 gram of boiled chicken, Sriracha, 100 gram of spinach, 100 grams of rice cauliflower. Oh [\h__\h] you're not. I hate that [\h__\h] like four or five times. You're the only white person here. Y'all can't see. He's the only white person here. Everybody's like You should see everyone's face, bro. That's a That's a white people [\h__\h] Oh, the boiled chicken. That's the whitest [\h__\h] you ever seen, bro. The whitest [\h__\h] I ever heard. No, man. But dude, look, I'm telling you, it it works, man. It works cuz like I realized, too, I felt and is my head maybe. But I was like, there's no [\h__\h] way I'm tracking my calories, right? Because there's got to be some extra shin in the oil cuz I was eating so little. But I realized now what it really was is probably I just hit a my metabolism slow down. So now I've gotten better at like doing some refeeding days but still staying in keto. You know what I mean? Um and just focus on getting proteins. But even then I'll still get like so I'll do like 1400 1500 calories and I'll get like 180 190 grams of protein. Yeah. Cuz a boiled chicken, bro. It's like Yeah. Yeah. It's like [\h__\h] dog food, bro. You're like [\h__\h] eating for fuel. It's like you're like a uh you're like per for for performance or some [\h__\h] bro. How do you feel on being on keto? feel [\h__\h] amazing. Is it better than when you were doing like Absolutely. I feel lighter. The best way to put it like mentally, uh, physically, like I wake up and I feel like I can move differently. Like when I run, like for example, bro, when I'm running now, which I don't really run a lot, like I'm doing I do sprints. Okay. Bro, it's like I feel just way more like lean and ready to like move like you know what I mean? Like less inflammation. Exactly what you mean. Less inflammation. Yeah. Yeah. Like the inflammation is a big part, too. That's another thing cuz I had some crazy injuries. So, I fell off of a 30ft balcony and broke my femur. Oh [\h__\h] So, like I'll have some crazy if I eat the wrong foods or if I like sleep the wrong way or like do certain workouts I'll have like crazy inflammation, but doing keto I've noticed way less. I'm saying, man. Yeah. You know, you said you've been doing it for how long? This is makes almost a month. Makes us all a month. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Have you How How many colds do you get a year on? Colds. I never get sick, bro. Yeah. Me neither. I never get sick. I haven't got sick. Listen, bro. I swear to God, I don't know the last time I got sick. I got But I I got CO every time because my my fiance got it whenever, but I literally tested for it and I was just like, "Yeah, this Listen, I I have some funny beliefs." You I guarantee you probably think the same. I'm like, "Man, half the time people say they're sick." I'm like, "You're just bullshit." Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I'm like I don't even believe it. Like I'm like like I don't know. I'm a big thing of like what you believe is your reality. Like if you think you're somebody who's like susceptible to getting sick, you're probably going to get sick more than most people for sure. Like I just don't believe in that. For sure. I haven't been sick in eight years. Yeah. But there's studies that show that keto the ketogenic diet improves your immune system. Oh yeah. Improves a lot of [\h__\h] too. That was the thing. The reason I did it really um cuz well I was already I was already doing it for weight loss. But now the reason that I want to stay on it is more because like the statue of my dad. Oh yeah. Because like he got he's not like like you know he got he got diagnosed with dementia. It's very early but he's fine right now. But like you know we the doctor he has a good doctor too. He's like, "Look, I could give you a bunch of drugs, but instead what I recommend is you do the ketogenic diet and take NAD plus and NM NM NMN. There's like a resveratl and there's a couple stacks, but anyways, I think you should share this with the people. The stacks, didn't the doctor tell what else did Oh, yeah, that's right. That's right. He he said that was the craziest [\h__\h] He was like, "Yeah, there's some really good people you could you could learn from." And he listed uh you. He's like, "You know, King Keto." I was like, but then I it was funny too cuz I was like, "Oh yeah, that's my boy." And he was like, "King Keto is your boy." And I was like, "Yeah." He was like it was like he was like, "Okay." You know, he this is a [\h__\h] lie cuz like you know he just seen you on YouTube and I was like I didn't really say anything. Shout out to the doctor though. But he was he was with it, bro. Cuz he's like this he's this like older Japanese dude, which you know most doctors are going to put you on like all sorts of [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] He was like, you know, do keto. I could give you a bunch of [\h__\h] but like I recommend you do keto instead. Yeah, bro. I I went I I started doing keto because I was already in good shape. Like it's not even for body composition reasons. Uh my cholesterol was kind of high. It runs in my family, right? Yeah. Genetic predisposition. And uh they they prescribed me statin medications and I was like, man, [\h__\h] this [\h__\h] you know? I I don't want to be on this [\h__\h] forever, right? And I had remember I had read some studies about how for some people keto can really help normalize cholesterol levels. Absolutely. And then I did that [\h__\h] for a month instead of the drugs. I went back and he's like, "Yo, your [\h__\h] is perfect now." And I was like, he's like, "You take the drugs?" Like, "Nah." You know, I was just I just did keto. But then I felt better like the cognitive the cognitive benefits, the energy, and I was like, "I'm just keep doing this [\h__\h] you know?" Yeah, man. No, it's it's the mo it's the move for sure. I mean, I just feel like it's like it just feels more natural, bro. It was invented by doctors in 1920. Yeah. It was like a spin-off the Atkins, right? No, no, no. It was It was invented epilepsy, right? cuz it cuz the drugs for epilepsy were harsh and it was too harsh to give kids. So, but they they developed the ketogenic diet and it cured their epilepsy, right? You know what I'm saying? The kids probably got ripped, too. Yeah. Hell yeah. Got [\h__\h] shredded. Hell yeah, man. Hell yeah, man. I a sick in eight years. My girl had CO three times. Yeah. Right. You know, she eat carbs. It's cool. Whatever. I still We still love her, you know. It's no big deal. And um and she had CO three times, man. I ain't take no precautions. kissing her in the mouth, eating off her plate, having unprotected all [\h__\h] you know, and like and like no, the only time I tested positive I I didn't have no symptoms. I did test positive cuz my son had it and he sneezed in my mouth. We were laughing about something and then he sneezed right in my mouth. And then uh he she his his mom tested him for COVID and she said, "Oh, he's got COVID." You know, and I tested myself. Oh, I'm testing positive. I ain't had no symptoms. Yeah. Same. I tested positive two times, but I didn't have any symptoms. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, man. For sure, man. Listen, listen. We We ran out of time. Where can people find out more about you, bro? Casp on YouTube. If you want I always say like this. If you want to just like kind of see my digital whatever, go to Instagram. If you want to learn how to trade, go to YouTube. Oh, I actually put it in. Oh, it's in the description. There's another There's another super chat. Was there or am I tripping? Oh, he wants to hear the strategy where he wants the sauce, you know? Like it it feels [\h__\h] lame spinning my boring my weird ass strategy in front of you. You know what I'm saying? No, I think it's like I mean at the end of the day, simple is better. Like everybody my rules like so I don't keep this chart up, right? You know what I'm saying? I I have um this is I'm just showing them this. I have the the the chart from Ninja Trader, right? So I keep I keep two charts up. I keep the two minute up and the and the 15. And the rule is if I'm going long, they both have to be over the 200. If I'm going short, they both have to be under. And if they're in between, I won't do it. Right. I just feel like for me it's a confirmation. It's mechanical. Yeah. It's very if then. Yeah. You don't have to mentally argue with yourself whether it's happening. And then so if I if I know where the trend is, either long or short, then I just go for I just go for uh bounces off this moving these one of these moving averages. So like for right here, like this is where I would went long, you know, right? you know, and uh and then the other rule is I keep the RSI two up and like for example if I I want to see this one oversold. I want to see that candle oversold before I go long as well. Right. Right. Right. So I'm looking for like a few different confirmations. Yeah. Yeah. It's just different things pointing to the same thing. Yeah. And that's and that's Oh, but if it's too far away from if it's too far away from the the 200 on the 15, then I I stay away from it because I don't know what's going to happen because I just noticed in my in all of my I remember I did 200 hours of uh paper trading first and I just noticed when it gets super far away from the 200, that's when you see like wild [\h__\h] happen like like this this may not just be a bounce off it. might just [\h__\h] plummet there. I feel like it's more likely in my experience. Yeah. No, absolutely. Yeah. And then once you figure those things out and you have conviction in them, Yeah. you easily will stick to that because you believe in it. That's the most important thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's really just following those rules. I got to make sure everything lines up and then the hardest part is waiting for those exact circumstances. Absolutely. always it always is cuz it's the assumption is like one or two of the things might be there and I like ah it feels right but what I what's super important for me is to never take that trade like I I be proud of myself if I don't take it even if it it would have been profitable like I don't take it just because I don't want to train myself to break my rules. Yeah. You can't reward it. Yeah. You don't I don't want to reward myself for breaking my rules. I rather you know. Hell yeah, bro. Dude, I appreciate you having me on, bro. Hey, man. My pleasure, man. I'm glad we got to we got to talk about I'm glad you sharing all the the a lot of the sauce. Hell yeah. And talking about your life story, you know, it's a good story. It is a crazy one. It's a good story. Yeah, man. Guys, before we get up out of here, uh again, I'm doing the training with the homie Money, my boy Derek Moneyberg on investing, not trading, but investing in stock market, investing in real estate, and building business. Money B is my richest friend, you know, and uh we I'm flying to Chicago. We doing it live at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. You do not want to miss Huh. It's the first link in the description. Check that out. Also, make sure you follow the homie Casper or Jesse, whatever, on uh Yeah, Casper is on the social media for sure. And we do this every Tuesday and Thursday at 700 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. All right, see you on Tuesday. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat.