Are you not entertained? Is this not why you are here? Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. Right now, I'm going give you the easiest diet to follow. The easiest diet or plan to follow if you want to get ripped and if you want to get ripped fast. Like this. This actually works fast. This is simplest [\h__\h] in the world. All you have to do is eat green leafy vegetables, meat, and protein throughout the day. And after resistance training, like, you know, uh lifting weights or calisthenics or anything that's like resistance, you can eat you can eat protein and carbs. Those are the only rules you need. That's all you need. And and drink and drink at least a gallon of water a day at least. You will lose weight fast. I'm telling you. Like this. That's how I ate the whole time. Like for years when I was just uh when I was uh doing fitness modeling and underwear modeling, like I was doing that professionally. That was the diet I was on. People think, "Oh, you're just naturally ripped." Nah, man. I was on that diet. Not only does not only did it keep me lean, it kept me lean and muscular, but it also kept my skin crazy clear. like during those those that whole time I don't know if I had a pimple the whole time you know and it was it was so funny I would do like photo shoots or whatever and uh I remember I was doing a photo shoot man I was uh it was in some [\h__\h] Cosmopolitan magazine you know where they have a [\h__\h] guy in and they forgot to put makeup on me right they forgot to put makeup on my skin was so clear they thought that I already had the makeup on you know what I'm saying and like to this day I still try to eat a lot of spinach in order to keep my skin clean and drink a lot of water but yo that's All you need to do, these are the only things you need to do. Drink a gallon of water a day. Eat as much green vegetables as you want. In fact, the more the better. The more the better and and eat eat protein. Don't go too overboard with that, but like eat protein and you know because you want to sustain yourself. And it's not a good diet for actually building muscle, right? But it's a great diet to get ripped in order to stay ripped. And you can eat carbohydrates after after working out, after resistance training. That's cuz that's the only time you need it. The reason you need carbohydrates then because carbohydrates spike your insulin levels. insulin is a hormone that's secreted by the pancreas when you digest uh mostly carbohydrates. I mean some releases when you when you eat protein but mostly carbohydrates gets uh increases insulin production. It's a catalyst. What insulin does insulin is a very anabolic hormone. Okay. But the thing is this indiscriminately anabolic, meaning it'll make your muscles bigger, but also make fat cells bigger. You know what I'm saying? It also or andor cause fat cells to split. Now you got more fat cells, which is even worse. But if you're eating low carbs throughout the day, now your insulin levels are staying low. And when insulin levels are low, your body's going to use its fat reserves for energy. I mean, that's why there's so many low carb diets out, right? You know, like uh Atkins diets, uh zone diet, southeast diet, mediterranean diet, uh slow carb diet, there's a [\h__\h] million of them. They're all saying b variations of the same [\h__\h] man. Eat green leaf le leafy vegetables and protein. And I'm saying after you work out, after you do resistance training, you can eat some um carbohydrates because that's when you need that's when it's good to spike your insulin levels. Some of you might be saying, "Oh, man, you need uh you need uh carbohydrates for your for your workout, for the energy." And I'm like, "Nah, man. Like, you don't you don't I mean, you may want carbohydrates before your workout. It might make you feel better, right? But it's not going to help you uh with fat loss." So, like I've been a trainer for like over 10 years, man. And everybody when I put people on this diet, they're reluctant to go on it. But when they go on this diet, everybody loses weight. And I think it's so simple. It's not easy, but it's simple. It's just so simple. You don't have to think. It's just green vegetables and protein. Everybody loses weight now. And they lose it fast. A lot of people don't like when I put fast in the title or when I say you can lose weight fast, but this [\h__\h] is fast. You will lose weight fast. And the reason is twofold. Once you one, you're keeping your insulin levels low. And that that's already one one part of of burning fat. And number two, calories in, calories out. Man, if you want to burn fat fast, you need to be burning significantly more calories than you consume. And the easiest way to do that is to consume less calories. And this diet is perfect for that. Like a cup of rice, a cup of rice has about, let's say, 200 calories, about around 200 calories, right? A cup of spinach has seven calories, right? Just to put that in perspective. Just to put that in perspective. Like green leafy vegetables are not calorically dense. All right? They're just not calorically dense. So you can eat basically as much within reason. You can eat almost as much as you want and still be in a caloric deficit. That coupled with your insulin levels being low for the for the majority of the day, you almost can't help but lose weight and now you're eating less, right? You're eating you're consuming less calories. Consuming less calories is more important than exercise when it comes to burning fat, right? Because you have to burn more calories than you consume. Listen, two a cup of rice, you know, a cup of rice ain't [\h__\h] We already said that's like 200 calories. running a mile on average only burns about 100 calories. So, but a cup a cup of rice is about this size. This is this is twice as many calories as you you would have to run two miles to burn off a cup of rice this size. Do you see why a low carb diet might be effective? A cup of spinach, that's only seven calories. That's what I'm saying, man. Like, this [\h__\h] worse. And this is still I still use bas I still basically use this diet when I'm cutting. Like every time I go on to cut, it's basically all spinach. Yeah, basically all spinach or or any other uh green leafy vegetable and and and meat. You know what I'm saying? Meat and or you know, protein, eggs, [\h__\h] of that nature. and and I eat carbs after after I I work out. So, this is what I do every time I want to get ripped. Every time I want to get ripped for if if I'm coming up for a photo shoot, I go I do this. When I'm doing this, if I don't lift weights that day or calisthenics or any kind of resistance training, then I don't eat any carbs that day. And that's called carb cycling. So, basically, I'm only eating carb. I'm only eating carbs after resistance training. And everybody, every time I put people on this diet, they all lose weight. They all lose weight. Happens every time. So anyway, uh you know, I I wrote about this in my book, Ultimate Cuts, Seven Secrets to Burn Fat Fast as Hell. Is a bestselling book on Amazon uh for all for over a year. It's been on Amazon's bestselling list. So, I appreciate that everybody who helped with that. You can check that out if you want more detail and other strategies on how to burn fat, but I basically told you the main thing you need to know, man. No [\h__\h] Uh, no [\h__\h] I just gave you the main thing you need to know for free. You're welcome. I'd like to take a quick second to thank everybody who bought the limited edition highife workout t-shirts. Yo, we sold like, yo, hundreds of them. Me and White Boy Brian was mailing off hundreds of them the other day. Uh, I'm seeing I'm seeing your post on Instagram. I really appreciate that. Everybody showing love. Uh, we still have some left if you want to get some. Some sizes are sold out. Uh, so you know, we but we still have some other sides. So, uh, there's a link in the description. Thanks a lot, everyone. I really appreciate it, man.