Yo, what up? What up? This is Brandon Con. I'm here with my man Factory, you know, the founder of NXT Sports Nutrition. Uh, today we want to talk about preworkouts. I know a lot of you have questions and I don't know everything about every pre-workout, but my man [\h__\h] he has experience in bodybuilding. He trains pros. He is a pro bodybuilder, so he can tell you a lot about uh pre-workouts more than I can. Well, with the pre-work workouts, you have a couple of um different categories within the pre-workout category. You have your stronger pre-work workouts uh that have stronger stimulants. You know, some of them um the stimulants that everybody stimul that most people are familiar of is is 13 methylene. Um they started taking out of the products because it was too strong. It's actually an aetamine base. Oh, really? Um, so it's like a that that's what was in like a Jack 3. Can't get that no more. Uh, we have it, but very few companies carry it. Um, we, you know, the companies that do carry it have to have a higher liability insurance. Um, it works. I mean, Jack 3D became popular. It works. Jack 3D became popular. You know, C4 had it in there and that's why C4, the name C4 blew up. But then they took it out. They took it out though. They took out they took it out of the major companies. the bigger companies took it out because of the the you know the insurance adapting that um the next category you have is usually you know it's still strong stimulant based you have caffeine in there um you know you have you have stimulants that that are going to work but they're not a fetamine based stimulants and then um then you have your your pump products you know um one of my favorite products you know is um we have a couple of them um Razor 8 works very Well, yeah, that's the WMAC product right over here. It's highly concentrated. Um, agnotine's in there. It's a really good product. The reason why I like this product is not only because it's a similar base, but it's it's a pump base like as far as like it has like NO2 or what? Yeah, it's an Oxy based product. Um, but it has, you know, it has it has arginine in there. You know, it has a Hydroax, which is a glycerol powder. glyce what glyce does is it it grabs all the water pushes to the into the body which many glycol products I take before my last shoot I like before every photo shoot like I I take a bunch of uh glycerol I I didn't know you get it form or liquid liquid I just drink it man that yo you got to get it online you got to get it on you got to get online I haven't seen it in a while yeah but I I took it right before and I got it works it works I show you I can show you this uh this magazine shoot I did that and I was looking crazy pumped. Like I looked a lot bigger. It's not Photoshop. It's nice. I don't know. It works. It works. It really works. Not too many products. Um big shout out to Jason Bell for Allax for creating this product for all you know. And then you have you have your non stimulant based products that have you know some type of you know vasalade in there. You know most products either going to have very strong stimulants or they're going to have a strong vasid validate in there. Um but explain to them what a vasod dilator is. The vaso dilator is like the like glycerol partine agmatine. Um it's vasod dilator is what makes you you know become vascular make you fuller more pump push more water into your body like Viagra right? Yeah. You know it's funny you say that because I sell this product right over here this product and I call this the Viagra muscles you know so it works very well. It's exactly what it is. All right, man. It works like Viagra, too. Not just the muscles. So, uh All right. So, like what do you think? So, so the non-stimulant ones would be uh for someone who just doesn't like that like me. I don't really like a jittery jittery. I don't like to get too crazy. So that's so the non simulates would be for like you know chumps like me since he's like so but so the so which ones have like u that that that crazy stuff that you saying that is banned there's not there's not too many of them there's not too there's very few of them most most companies have taken it out is this have it no this does not have it this is a pump and this work no this is both this is a similar product but this is a very very good product they actually just came out with this product and is based out of Canada, you know, um they're the only the whole entire manufacturer is GMP approved. Uh they're one of the top companies, you know, in in the industry. Everything they put out, it's very good quality. Um you know, and you have, you know, your citruline, which is an amino acid, you know, again, it helps with the nitric oxide, no, you know, Nol um levels. um helps you know muscle uh detoxification which means that you know while your body is working out you're breaking down muscle. So what that does is it helps the muscle from stop breaking it down. So instead of taking two steps forward, one step back you just keep going forward. But with citrine you could add it on to one of the pre-workouts also. You add it. You can add I mean you can stop it up. You can make your own you can make your own um pre-workout which a lot of people do. You do the agentine, you do the citruline um and added it to like um uh an Holy put in some I can take something like that like but I sometimes I just take some arginine uh some BCAAs and some caffeine like some coffee like that kind of thing too you know right so you sell you sell these these mixers right but you also sell the individual products too yeah we have we have raw materials um we have you know again the citrine we have, you know, we have the betaine, which a lot of pre-workouts have, right? They all have this. This is the stuff. It makes your your skin tingle a little bit. Skin tingle a little bit. You have the arginine right over here. So, we carry rins. Um, some people prefer to make their own pre-workouts. Yeah. I mean, is pre-workout like like like I started working out in in the '90s. Is is pre-workout necessary? I don't remember there being a a thing called pre-workout in the '90s. You feel like it's it's better now or I think I think the pre-work workouts in the 90s were fat burners. Refuel, right? Refuel. I took that level. Yo, I took that bedroom base. Um, it wasn't I think the pre-workouts became big over the like the last I would say like the last 8 years. Right. Right. Right. That's what I'm saying. That's pretty new. Like kids always ask me about it and I'm just like, yo, it's new. I don't know that much about it. Like you probably know more about the meat cuz it's marketed to them more than Right. Right. But it's it's important. I mean, people people, you know, people take it before they go to work. People take it before they go out partying. People think they know they work out. I'm so It's a big market. A few pre-workouts are perfect. All right. All right. Cool, man. So, there you go, man. All right. There it is, man. NXT. That's why you get the most that's why we go you come to NXT Sports Nutrition, man. You get the most knowledgeable advice you can get from a pro. Not only is he a pro, he trains pros, you know. So, when you come here, make sure you use the code highlight. I'll put the links below. I'll put the addresses and um yeah, it'll match any price, any product online or in person. Beatric.