If you want to make money as an online fitness coach, I want to show you exactly what to post on Instagram so you grow your following, boost your engagement, and most importantly, get more online training clients so you can start making more money than a dot with a only fans link in her bio. If you watch this video to the end, you will learn what to post, how often you should post, and I'll also break down my proven money-making Instagram posting formula that I've used to help over 15,000 people start their online fitness business. If you can't watch this video to the end, then you are destined to keep wasting time posting cringe [\h__\h] that will make you no money. And the only good thing about that is that only a few people will laugh at your goofy ass because most people won't even see the I see trainers all the time complaining about, "Oh, I can't get any engagement. My following won't grow. I can't get no online clients. The market is saturated. It's all bullshit." My students and I are getting new online clients all the time. If you watch this video to the end and actually follow the steps, you won't have to worry about it. I'm going to show you what to post, how often to post, and I'm going to show you why you don't even need a big following to get a ton of views on your reals and [\h__\h] So, you're going to need all that and more in the last tip going to be the most important. First thing we need to understand is how often should you post on Instagram? Well, I want to show you a video from the CEO of Instagram, the man in charge. Lot of questions in the last couple days about how much to post on Instagram. And so I did want to make sure you know that you should prioritize quality over quantity. But in general, posting more will help. The more you post, the more people you're going to reach and the more your follower count is going to grow over time. The more you reach and the more your following is going to grow over time. That is the [\h__\h] in charge of the gram. He is the CEO of Instagram. He's saying the more you post, the more people you reach, more your following is going to grow over time. So having that said, how much should you post? If you're not posting at least once a day, then you're not even trying. I have some students making 50 grand a month or more. I have one student, I'll show you some of her videos later in this, who made $1.5 million as a online trainer last year. My top students are posting three, four times a day. Why? Because like the CEO of Instagram said, the more you post, the more your following is going to grow over time. And you don't have to worry about posting too much is because the algorithm changed over the years. This is how the algorithm works. And this is why it's not important to even have a big following anymore. Check this out. Let's say you post a real. This is very important. We want to focus on reals. Reals get the most reach on Instagram. You can post pictures and all, but reals get the most reach. When you first post a real, what's going to happen is Instagram is going to show it to a small segment of your followers. So, we'll call this test one. So, they won't even show it to everybody, right? They're going to show it to a small segment of your followers. If these people watch it and or engage with it, then Instagram know, oh, these people are really [\h__\h] with the video and they'll show it to a larger portion of your audience. So, this is will be the second test. Test two, you can't post too much because it's never going to show it to all your audience. You get what I'm saying? You can't post too much. Maybe like five, six years ago, you could, but this is the way the algorithm works now. So, you're going to get one test one. Boom. You're going to show it to a small segment. If those people watch a certain amount of it, watch time is the most important metric. If they engage with your content, that that's helpful, right? If they save it, that's helpful. But the most important thing Instagram cares about is actually watch time. If those people watch it, boom, then it send it to a second test. If those people engage with it, comment, say, but most importantly watch a high percentage of it, right? Watch time is the most important metric. If those people watch it, they don't just skip through it. Boom. Then it's going to go to test number three where they'll show it to a larger segment of your audience, but also it'll start showing it to new people. They'll show it to some new people. Some people you don't even know. This is how you grow your following. You have to make it out of your test, out of these tests. Boom. Then it's going to test it again. But the next test is going to be more people you follow, but also don't follow you. This is why the CEO of Instagram said, "Hey, the more often you post, the more people you reach, the more your follow will grow over time, right? It's going to show to a bigger audience." And then boom, if it passed that test, that's when you start to go viral where they start showing it to mostly people who never [\h__\h] with you before, never saw you before. The blue represents new people and it still show people in your audience as well. This is how the algorithm works, right? So, you got to make it out of each test. This is why it doesn't matter if you post too much cuz the they're going to test it on a small group of yard to see if they even like it. If they like it, then it'll show it to a larger group of your audience. If it if you pass the second test, then it's start showing it to more your audience and new [\h__\h] If you pass that test, then it's going to show it to even more new [\h__\h] And then if you pass that test, boom, then you start to go viral. You can't post too much. And the thing is, you want more shots at bat. You know what I'm saying? So eventually, the more you post, the more chances you have of passing these tests. So now, what do you post? So, before I show you the different content styles, especially for fitness influencers, you need to know the structure of the content. And it's something I call the epic formula. I teach this to my students. I've helped over 15,000 people grow online fitness businesses. I call this the epic formula. Right? So, the beginning of the epic formula, it stands for engage, meaning you have to grab attention. And this is going to be the first 5 seconds of the video, the first 3 to 5 seconds of video. We're focused on videos because videos get the most reach and the most engagement on Instagram. Ever since Tik Tok came out, they started prioritizing reals and videos. You need to understand that. So, boom. First 5 seconds. You want to make sure you're grabbing attention within the first 5 seconds. Okay? We we'll show you some methodologies how that later in the video. The P of the Epic formula stands for premise, right? After you grab attention, you got to tell them what the [\h__\h] is about. They need to know why they should pay attention. Why should they give a [\h__\h] to your dumbass videos, man? Why should they pay attention? And this is going to be after the first three to five seconds. Sometimes think the the first five seconds is called the hook. How do you hook people in? If you hear me refer to a hook, that's what we're talking about, right? So this is after the first 5 seconds. After this is after hook. And then the I is info. This is very important. If you want to make money as an online trainer, you have to post helpful information. Don't nobody want to see you [\h__\h] dance? Don't nobody want to see you do that [\h__\h] where people point? Yep. Nope. No. No, no. You got to tell them like the [\h__\h] good [\h__\h] You got to give them information that's helpful. Guess what? I'm doing this [\h__\h] right now. Right now in this video is following Epic for me. This is the eye portion of the video, the info. And you're [\h__\h] watching it. That's how I'm telling you this [\h__\h] works. But we're going to condense this down into one one minute or so. This is where you teach. And this is should be the main part of your video. You're really teaching. Don't worry about teaching too much. The main part. And then C stands for CTA. And CTA stands for call to action. That's a marketing term. You [\h__\h] ain't go to college, but it's a marketing term, which means this is when you tell them what to do next. For example, here's here's a CTA. Hey, if you want to learn more about being an online trainer, I have a free ebook called the Ten Commandments of Online Training. It show you how to grow your online fitness business. Even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, it's a free ebook. Link in the description. Boom. That was a CTA and it's real. It's in the description right now. You should click it if you want to make money as an online trainer. In that ebook, I go into all these concepts in more detail, but that's that's a CTA. You see what I did now? I'm a marketing genius. I did this in the [\h__\h] beginning of the video. You typically want to do it at the end. A lot of times is you can give away something free. Tell them to download something free you have. Uh you could say, "Hit the link in my bio for this free shit." Or if you want to work with me, comment something below. All the people comment that word, DM them, and you can start a conversation with them. get them on a sales call and close them for online training. I I don't have time to go into how to close people in online training or how to train them. That's covered in the free ebook, The Ten Commandments of Online Training. If you want that, the link's in description. Boom. Another CTA right there. I'm the man. All right, let's keep going. This is the foundation of all online content that I do, right? The epic formula. Now, there's different styles of videos you can post. You What I do never want to see is you just putting your [\h__\h] phone on the floor filming you working out. That's not helping nobody. He's just [\h__\h] showing off. You have to post information that helps people accomplish your goals. And a good way to do that is a a video format we call talking head, right? Talking head. This is when you are just talking in front of the camera. You may use some B-roll on top of it. Here's an example. This is example from one of my students, Corey Armstrong. Cory made $400,000 last year as an online trainer. He's one of my star students. Let me show you uh a talking head video where he's going to give a lot of advice. Ways to lose body fat. Watch what you do. All right. All right. So, boom. the the hook or the the E in engagement ways to lose body fat. Boom. Now he's gonna go into the premise drink. And there's three drinks that keep your stomach big as hell. All right. So, he's about to tell you the three drinks that keep your stomach big as hell, right? That's like the premise, right? So, now he's going to go into the info. Alcohol. Alcoholic beverages kill your body's ability to repair from workouts and metabolize fat. The second drink is sugary sweet drinks like fruit juice soda. It has no nutritional value and if you ain't running the marathon as soon as you drink it, that [\h__\h] is going to sit on you and keep your stomach big. Zero calorie beverages. A lot of you guys fill your day with this, but don't recognize that this actually triggers your body to think that it's getting sugar and make your sugar cravings go crazy. Instead, just keep it simple. Do these three. Water. Water is going to help your body. You see, the bulk of the video is him teaching the I I'm telling you, the eye, the info has to be the most important. It's the most important part, but you still have to get their attention and you still have to tell them why they should pay attention. Okay? Metabolize fat better and keep your cravings low. Coffee, black coffee to be exact. Don't be adding them [\h__\h] sugars and creamers and sweeteners to it, jacking the calories up. It's going to curb that appetite and the caffeine in it is actually going to help you burn more calories at rest. Unsweetened tea, tons of antioxidants, mild caffeine to help with calorie burning as well. Now, he didn't do the CTA on this one. I don't know why he's [\h__\h] up. I teach my students to write. basically write out good captions. You can just [\h__\h] take your audio, put it in chat to write you a caption. But people read this [\h__\h] Let me show you another example. This is one of my students, Karen Sutton. Three years in a row, he's made over $200,000. Last year, he made a4 million as an online trainer. He's a vegan, right? But he's still cool. All right, so check this. Don't hold that against him. All right, let's go into it. Here's the best cardio for heart health. When it come All right, so boom. That was the hook or the e engagement. He's jogging to the camera. He said, "Here's the best cardio, right? Boom. for heart health. All right. Now, now we know what's up. And now he's about to go into the premise. Comes to your heart. The heart is the most important muscle in the body. It's what keeps you alive. So, you want to make sure you're exercising that as well. You don't want to. All right. So, that was the premise, right? Boom. So, he came in, he ran at the camera. That stops the scroll. Some Sometimes it's called a pattern interrupt where you do something kind of wacky or zany. It doesn't have to be wacky or zany. Just something that's going to catch attention on Instagram and stop people from scrolling. Here's the uh the best exercise of heart health. All right, that's the hook. Then he said the premise. He told you why [\h__\h] heart health is important. Keeps you alive, [\h__\h] Right now, he's going to go into the information to do steady state because this is a low impact cardio. You want to do something that's a little bit more high intense. Try to stick with stage four, stage five. Switch between the two and when you have to take a little rest, go to that stage three. That's what's going to really keep that heart strong. If you just stay in stage two and stage three for a very long time, then you're not really testing the heart. You need to challenge it just as you challenge your other muscle. So, if you want a workout plan that's going to help you get all right, here's the CTA. If you want a workout plan, right? Boom. That's here's the call to action. Strong heart, go ahead and comment down below vegan heart and I'll go ahead and reach out to you so you can be nice and strong and live a long life. Peace. All right. Cool. Boom. So you see it followed the structure exactly, right? That's why he's making so much quart million dollars. He just does what I say, man. You can do the same. All right. This is what we call epic caption. So you do the same thing with the caption, right? Boom. That's how the hook. Boom. Make no mistakes. Heart is about health. That's the premise. What this is what keeps you alive. Boom. Then he writes the eye in here, the info. Boom. Then he has comment vegan heart, right? Boom. The caption follows epic post, too. People read the captions, but people are are typing vegan heart in there. Boom. Boom. Boom. And then what's happened is he's DMing those people, sending them the free thing he said, and then he's working on getting them on sales calls to close them as online clients. That's what I teach. This is why my students make so much money. We got a formula. This is not the [\h__\h] you was posting, right? You put your [\h__\h] phone on the floor in the gym. Nobody wants to see that dumb [\h__\h] Nobody wants to see you just do a exercise, right? They want to learn something, man. They're showing their physique. They their shirts off showing their physique. Let me give you another example. This is from my student who made the most money last year, Kelly Nicole. You made $1.5 million. Goal is to lose body fat and gain muscle at the same time. I'm going to save you so much time and effort and give you the perfect macro split. Yeah. All right. So, that was the hook. Now, she's going to premise like she did it kind of creatively. Check this out. Yeah, that doesn't exist. Cuz losing body fat and gaining muscle at the same time is often just a dream or a marketing scam. Yes, it can happen if you're newer to lifting weights. But if you're not newer to lifting and you just stay at maintenance and expect massive change to happen, that'd be like staying at a job that pays minimum wage and expecting massive change to happen to your bank account. While change might now she's going into the the info happen. It's going to take many years for that to actually happen. So what should you do then? If you want to see massive changes, pick a goal, either fat loss or muscle growth and focus on that first. Generally speaking, if your body fat percent is below 22%, then muscle growth is probably a good place for you to start. If your body fat percent is 22% or higher, you might want to first focus on fat loss before you get to muscle growth. Once you decide your goal, then you can set your macros. And if you don't know how to do that, just comment macros down below for the absolute best method to find custom macros for your goal, your body, and your lifestyle. Seamless transition into the CTA. You see what I'm saying? That it was seamless. She gave she did the whole thing. Boom. Engagement. She set the premise. She gave a bunch of info. And then she said, "Yo, if you want more help with that," boom. A lot of my students, what we do is we we teach them to give away a free ebook or a free tool and we show them how to put that together in a way that actually leads to sales. Kelly made $1.5 million and as you can see she again she wrote epic caption too. Boom. But she started with the cap. I don't really love when people do that but that's fine, right? Um macros and she wrote like I'm telling you people read the captions. Look how many people typing macros. Boom. She's hitting all these people up in the DMs getting them on sales calls closing. That's why this is how she made $1.5 million last year as online trainer. So, those are talking head videos where you're talking and giving advice. Another key you need to understand with these kind of videos, you want to use a microphone. There's tons of different microphones. You can get the road makes a good microphone. DJI makes a good microphone that you can just plug straight into your iPhone. All those videos were shot with iPhones, right? You don't need a fancy camera. [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] Just use your iPhone. Here's the next video he post. I call this voiceover tips. These are easier than talking heads. I'll give you example of one. Check this out. This is one that I posted. Earn fat and keep it off. First, you have to track how many calories you burn each day, both from exercise or just from walking around. You can track it with your Apple Watch, Fitbit, or an Aura Ring. Then, you have to track how many calories you consume each day. I'm a psycho, so I keep a scale with me, even at restaurants, and I track everything I eat with My Fitness Pal. And then, it's really just math. For every pound of fat you want to lose, you have to burn 3500 calories. So, if you want to burn a pound of fat a week, you just have to make sure that every day you're in a deficit of 500 calories, meaning you are burning 500 calories more than you consume each day. And if you want to burn 2 lbs of fat per week, then you have to be in a 1,000 calorie deficit each day. This is guaranteed to work for everyone, all men, women, children, all mammals. It'll probably even work for all reptiles and amphibians. However, I never train one of them, so I'm not 100% sure. If you are a mammal and you want some help getting ripped and calculating your calories burned and consumed each day, I have a free template you can download. Just comment the word goals and I'll send it to you right away. So, you can see right, boom. Here's how you can burn fat, keep it off. That's engagement. Sometimes the premise and the engagement or hook, sometimes they're baked into each other and I feel like it was enough right there. I didn't have to go into more of the premise. It was kind of in there, right? So, sometimes they're mixed. Most of it was the actual info. Then at the end, hey, if you want some more help with that, I got a free guy. Boom. And if you see look at the um caption, I basically had the same [\h__\h] in my caption. Boom. And then people are writing. Goes right so they can get it. Blah blah blah blah. And check this out. This is easier than talking video cuz I It's just AI just compiled a bunch of what's called B-roll. Just me just showing different actions, me doing [\h__\h] looking ripped. I I put those together and I just spoke over it. I just spoke it as a voice over and I but I still followed the epic formula. Let me show you another example. This is from one of my students. Man, she made over $100,000 her first month in my program, High Ticket Trainer. She's one of our star students. Guys, you have to make these protein bagels. They were so good. So, you're going to add flour, salt, and baking soda to a dish. You're going to stir all of your dry ingredients together. And then, you're going to add your yogurt. Stir that up really good. Then, you're going to get your hands dirty. Knead that into a ball. Mine was still a little sticky, so I added some more flour until it looked like this. Wash number blocks for like five minutes. Now, this is optional, but I added an egg wash. And of course, I had to get out my Trader Joe's Everything But the Bagel seasoning and sprinkle that on top. Look how good they look. They were so crunchy on the outside and so gooey inside. Hers was a little more difficult than mine to film. She didn't just use B-roll. She actually filmed herself making this recipe, but then she did a voice over on top of it. You can see she's in shape, right? Her target market is helping moms get in shape. Her target market is moms. And that's why you can see if you watch the video like there was there was like a kid running around in the back. You saw a little kid and she stopped and talked to the kids about number blocks. If you got kids, young kids, you know that they really [\h__\h] with number blocks, man. My son, he be on his number block [\h__\h] Really resonates with the target market, right? She put the CTA right in her caption. DMing me bot. Remember I said she didn't say it in the video. I wish she would have said it in the video. People, if you scroll down, people are DMing her bot. So, people read the captions, man. Don't get it [\h__\h] up. People read the captions. I mean, people are commenting bot and she hits them up. Get some more sales calls. All right, let me show you another example of this. This is uh Kelly again, my student who made 1.5 million last year. This is her doing the voiceover. You never saw any progress from it. Listen up, because this is why a lot of people think they just need one macro calculation and eat at that forever and they'll make progress. But that's simply not the case. A lot of people need to go through a lot of macro adjustments to get to that end goal that they have. For some people, that means 15 to 30 different adjustments to their macros as their body changes. If you don't know when to adjust your macros or how to adjust them, comment macros down below and I'll send you my free macro adjustment cheat sheet. All right. You see, man, that was super simple, right? You've counted macros before, but you never saw any progress from it. If you've counted macros before, you never saw progress from it, check this out. Boom. That's the hook. That's the intro. And she's just talking, right? She's giving a bunch of advice. And listen up because this is why a lot of people and the whole thing is like just, you know, a montage basically a montage of B-roll. She's just talking over. She comment macros. Um but but people are commenting macros. Boom. And she's hitting these people up in in the DMs, giving them whatever free [\h__\h] she has, get them on calls, and then she's uh selling them. And I teach my students how to sell. I teach them I give them scripts of what to say in the DMs. More than I can go over right now, but if you want to learn more about that, download the free ebook, The Ten Commandments of Online Training. It put you in the right track. But this is the strategy that works, right? Another style video that you can post text only tips. So this is the easiest kind of content to make. Here's an example from Kelly, right? She didn't say nothing. She just used the epic formula and just wrote it on the screen. You get what I'm saying? Let's run. Let me show you what I mean. Just one more time. Just watch it. Here's the hook. Boom. Here's the premise. Here are the things you need to add. But here's the thing that she did do. She didn't she she didn't do it all here. I don't really love this style, but it works, right? The CTA of the video was to read the caption and then she wrote a epic formula in the caption. Boom. All right. She went down there. I'm not going to go through all of it. Boom. Hey, comment the word plan. Let's look at how many people comment plan. Right. She hit these people up using my DM scripts, got them on sales calls, using my sales scripts that I teach on students. Boom. Now she, you know, she made $1.5 million. That's it. This is the easiest content to make. Let me show you another example of this. Text only tips. I think it's better because she's actually giving the tips, putting the text on the video instead of telling them to read uh the caption. I think that's a little better. But both work. All right. You get what I'm saying? You see this, right? She didn't have to write as much in the caption because it was so much writing in the video, right? But boom. Macros, macros, macros, macros. Again, she hits these people up in the DM. Use our DM scripts. Get some on calls. Use our sales scripts to close them. This is one of the easiest methods. This is probably the easiest content to make. You just have to [\h__\h] film yourself doing [\h__\h] You see how this is better than what most people are posting, right? This [\h__\h] is more compelling. If you want to sell coaching, you have to teach in your content so they know you're the real deal. It's not just about how you look, it's about how much you teach, how much game you can give them. Another solid video. This is transformation. You can use your transformation and turn it into a real. There's another example from Kelly. Just B-roll of her looking fat. Now she's in this kind of shape, right? She's fit. That that's compelling content. But that was a textonly transformation. Here's another way she did her same transformation. You can post the same kind of video with a different format. You'll see three things I would do differently to get from here to here. Right? So now she's showing her her transformation twice as fast. Number one, instead of training six days a week, I would only train four days a week. Training too much inhibits recovery and progress and was doing me more harm than good. Number two, I would stop trying to focus on eating as clean as possible and instead start counting macros so I could eat what I want and still see progress. This would also keep me on track longer because I wouldn't end up binge eating or going off the rails because I was trying to eat as clean as possible. And the most important one, instead of just sitting at maintenance and hoping changes would come, I would go through cycles of cutting and building. This way I could lose the body fat I want to lose, build muscle and see changes a lot faster than sitting at maintenance. This is called nutritional periodization and it's how I've helped thousands of women get results like this. If you don't know if you should start with a cut or build a CTA beautifully done. This is why this is why she's one of my best student man. This this is perfect CTA seamless. First just comment quiz below for my free quiz. It started as a talking head but it it was really just a like a voiceover as well, right? But it's cool. It's like good intro started then she went into the thing and then she wrote all this comment quiz. Look how many people commenting quiz. Endless. Right. Again, she's hitting these, she's DMing these people, using my DM scripts, getting them on a call, using our sales scripts, closing them. Boom. I don't have no examples of me doing it, man. Cuz by the time Digital cameras was out, man, I was already looking better than everybody, right? So, I'm old. I'm 42. Those type of videos are the styles. Now, what kind of content can you use with those styles? So, transformation is one of the types of content. You see, you saw one that was text only, one that was voice over. You can also do what foods do you eat? Here's another example from Cory Armstrong. Again, Cory made $400,000 last year. Here's the top protein sources to help you get ripped. Boneless, skinless chicken breasts. It's lean and it goes with everything. Lean ground turkey. Uncured turkey bacon, less inflammatory, more protein. Beef top sirloin. Lean ground beef, make sure it's 9010. Salmon, get wild caught. Same with the shrimp. Get that wild caught. Or you can get some hatock organic shredded beef that's already fully cooked. Or the salmon is in a pouch. Keeping it fishy, pouched tuna or canned tuna or sardines if you want it salty. You're going to get these meat sticks, bison, chicken, respectively, protein shakes, either premixed or powdered, whichever one's more convenient. Greek yogurt, hardboiled eggs, ready to go. Grass-fed jerky and the organic cold cuts. Not that processed [\h__\h] All right. He didn't do a CTA in the video. Who knows why? There's a lot of good information, right? Boom. But you see that video that was a what a talking head video and it was like what kind of foods you eat? What kind of foods you eat to accomplish your goal? Let me show you another example. That was a talking head example. Here's another one from Jen. All right. So, this what's very important is in all the videos I'm showing, the trainers are showing their physiques. I hate when trainers say, "Why am I not getting any traction?" You're not showing your physique. She start what what do I eat every day? That's that's the hook. But it's also she's showing her physique off the rip. And remember, keep this in mind, she targets moms. That's her target market. She shows her kids, right? That's very important. Like you got to throw in things that make your target market know that they can relate to you. Here's another example from me. Keto for 8 years. And here's what my pantry looks like. Come on. Know I got to keep some sparkling water. You know, you know, tons of sparkling water up here. Then I got a whole surplus at the bottom. Whole reservoir. I buy it in both cuz I drink like two or three of these per day. Uh I like Diet Coke. Coke Zero. I'm a big aspartane fan. These my girls sodas. She likes these. She likes real sugar. You know, it's whatever. It's cool. Hey man, you know. Then we got regular water. Those are good. Sometimes you want regular water. Matcha shots. I like green tea. Matcha. I drink those. Thanks, Christian. Logan Paul. They send me this like every month. Primes. They're cool. Yeah. The people who edit this video, they edit it out when I said the frosted flakes are not for me. So like half the videos are not for me, but then you you put your CTA. You can, you know, this was another talking head style what I eat video. All right. Next style of video you can post. Make money as online trainer. Testimonials. So you can have testimonials of your clients. Here's another one from from Jen. Only 4 lbs down and a six-pack gained. Let me show you what we did. Here's my client, a busy mom of two who thought she had to lose a ton of weight to see results until we started working together. Between school drop offs and pickups, we prioritize strength training and proper nutrition, not extreme dieting. So that mommy pouch gone, abs showing, all without starving herself or spending hours working out at home. So if you're looking to lose fat and build muscle, DM me goals and let's see if we're a good fit to work together. Well done. Right. She showed her clients who got in shape but drop goals. Boom. People start dropping goals in there. She's DMing people, hitting them up. I'm going show you example. This is not a fitness example. You can also do it like this. I didn't do it with a real. So, I had I had this video, but then I show it. But sometimes you can do videos with a carousel. And this is just me with some testimonies from my students who I teach how to grow online fitness businesses. What you finished the year at? Last year was a record year, man. We finished at $470,000. I owe a lot of this to you and the team. Just being able to continue to provide the value and consistently being there to help. So, I I'm eternally grateful, man. Let's give Cory a round of applause. I made 9K in 28 days. Your your first 28 days in the program. Come on. Right out the gate. Let's go. Is that the most money you've ever made from your fitness business? Yes. Let's give Alejandra a round of applause. I made Last month was about 10. And then for the year it was 245,000. Let's give Karen a round of applause. last last month wound up with $26,51 finishing the year at $260,546.70. Come on, Chris. That's from your online training business. Yes, sir. It'd be one thing if that's all Chris did. But Chris, shout out to Chris, man. That's the best. Last month, we finished at 13K and we got 220K for last year. I'm so grateful because I doubled my income since last year. I don't know the currency exchange. Last week I hit 10. 10 what? Justin? 10,000. I made 10,000 last week. Last month I brought in 34. Come on, man. You made $10,000 last week. Come on. So for September, it's been super excited, guys. I finally hit my first 20k month. I did 20.1K last month. And um I'm hyped. I'm not doing nothing special, guys. I'm doing exactly everything that Brandon teaches. So you can do a testimonial like that, too. You can just have if you have a bunch of testimonials like me. Obviously, that was for online training, but like if I was selling fitness stuff, I could have did it with my clients. If if you have like video testimonials from them or if you don't have video testimonials like them, you could just tell the story of them with their before and afters the way Jyn did. And she blocked out their face because some people like aminity. That's cool. But like these are real testimonials, man. If you guys want to learn how to do this, download the free ebook, the ten commandments of online training, and start learning what my clients are doing, right? To actually grow their business, start getting some of this money. Uh, another one you could do is the best supplements. Here's a talking head version from K Cor Karen. You saw he made $275,000 last year. Best sleeping supplements you can get right here in Publix. So, when it comes to sleeping supplements, uh I usually stay away from melatonin because when it comes to melatonin, you can get very dependent on it. And if you get dependent, that means that you have to always use it just to go to sleep, right? So, something that you could take on and off, especially if you have a racing mind, is this GABA. All right. I highly recommend taking this. It's something that I take personally as well. I recommend a lot of my students. One thing about this video is like you ain't seen no fancy editing here. You don't need no fancy editing. No [\h__\h] crazy. You don't need it. I don't want that to be a hindrance to you. Sometimes my videos have fancy editing, but I got Nema. I got AI got a guy on staff who's really nice with this [\h__\h] right? I'm telling you, my students are doing this [\h__\h] by themselves, right? Check this out. To take it and with GABA, it helps relax the body and the mind. There's no cuts in this video. just helps boost up testosterone as well. So, if you're trying to build some muscle mass while you're sleeping, okay, that's where all the magic happens, take GABA. My second best is going to be uh 5HTP. So, when it comes to 5HTP, this is really good because it helps with serotonin production. Okay. Now, if you try either or the GABA or the 5HTP, you can actually watch this go. He's just talking about the [\h__\h] the videos, right? Then you boom, he wrote an epic caption. Boom. This is working really well, right? It's just a talking head. But you could do this again. You could do this voice over style, too. You could just you showing each content, each supplement you take. Or you can do it text only style. Show the the supplements you take, right? Different ways to do it. You make the same video three times with three different styles. Talking head, voice over, text only. You see, none of these are [\h__\h] [\h__\h] in the gym videos, right? You can do videos in the gym where you show exercise, but you still want to do it like this talking head. or you don't you don't want to just be in there lifting and think that's going to get you some [\h__\h] clients without teaching them something. You can also do hacks. Every time I post something that's like a hack, somebody said there are no hacks. It's just [\h__\h] calories and calories out. Yeah, dumb ass. But you know there's some different ways to get the calories burnt. Extreme way to burn fat. First, take your body weight in pounds times 10 and that's how many calories you should get each day. You're going to track it on your phone with My Fitness Pal. You're going to walk 20,000 steps every day. How are you going to do that? Well, if you're like me, when you're at your desk, while you're working, you're going to have a treadmill. If you can't afford that, then go outside. Outside is free. While you're doing that walking, you're going to be listening to some podcast on how to get money so you can get some money and afford yourself a treadmill desk. Do that every day till you hit your ideal weight. That is a hack. [\h__\h] what the nerds say. That is a hack, man. Tony, you get a treadmill desk is a [\h__\h] hack. [\h__\h] what the nerds say. That was a talking head hack. One thing you should know, all these videos, again, I'm showing my physique. Even if I got a shirt on, it's a [\h__\h] tank top or something. You got to show your physique. Only drink pre-made protein shakes. I'm drinking protein shakes multiple times a day. So, I'm not going to be out here mixing [\h__\h] up or shaking [\h__\h] up and then have to do a dish. Have to clean it. That I shake this up, drink it, throw it away. Then I'm back to getting this money. Every time I say something like this or the fact that I don't use silverware, I only use paper and plastic. People say, "Why don't you just get a maid? If you got so much money, why don't you just get a mate?" Listen, my housekeeper comes once or twice a week, but I eat multiple times a day. I'd have to have a living maid or like a nanny or some [\h__\h] It's a lot easier. Just throw this [\h__\h] away. This way I save time, energy. I can devote that time to the acquisition of capital. My favorite brand is Quest. I think these taste the best. Good amount of protein, 30 g. I'm pound it down a few of these per day. And this is an easy, convenient way to get more protein. Sometimes I just want to drink this instead of eating a steak. It's got to be pre-made cuz one thing I'm not doing is dishes. Like I remember when my I had I got a nanny for my son and I was like this is dope. She comes and she does everything for him, man. She makes him a little lunch. She cleans up everything. She makes him breakfast and lunch. I was like, man, I need a nanny. So, those are like hacks you can use. I I'll show you one more of these games to lose fat. Get yourself a Nintendo Switch while you're on the exercise bike. So, I'll play a game Smash Bros. or Splatoon while I'm burning fat. Or you can get yourself an iPad mini and play a game called Call of Duty Mobile and you can play that while you're on the exercise bike dropping nukes on the haters and burning fat simultaneously. Or you can get yourself one of these nerve masks, Oculus. And what I do is I strap this to my [\h__\h] face. And I play boxing game, Creed, or my favorite is Super Hot VR. You're in the matrix shooting agents. And I notice I burn the most calories with this cuz I track it with my Aura ring. And these are fun ways to burn fat, right? If you got some hacks or some [\h__\h] that you do that's different or something you recommend that's different than other people, some something unique, make a video about I'm telling you, man, that's hacks. Another style of video you can do is day in the life content. People love voyerism. They love reality TV. That's why the [\h__\h] Kardashians became billionaires off this [\h__\h] right? You can intertwine some knowledge in there to help them accomplish their goals. And how I do it is all voiceover style. Take videos throughout the day what I'm doing with my phone. Throw that [\h__\h] in cap cut. Talk over it to another day in the life of a baller shot caller in Miami, Florida. Start my day with a quick workout in the gym. Right. I'm showing that I'm working out and I'm showing that I'm ri I'm ripped. Right. This is very important. Then right before I go live on Instagram and Tik Tok simultaneously cuz I got two phones. Then my girl and I went to her photo shoot for her new bikini line. Some of her friends showed up for the shoot. I'm hoping she can turn this into a billion-dollar business so I can be a stayathome boyfriend. The girls continued to frolic in the water, but I had to leave to meet up with my boy Eli on his boat where he was having an event. He had some food on the boat. Obviously, I had my skill, right? I'm showing that I walk the walk, right? You can throw [\h__\h] in there that speaks to your target market. I'm talking to trainers. That's extreme for training. Not all trainers are doing that, but if they see it, they like, you know, they know what's up. If Jen was doing it to mom, she would like her taking her picking her dropping her kids off at the car line making, you know, mom [\h__\h] right? I'm doing baller [\h__\h] you know what I'm saying? But she would do mom [\h__\h] with me to weigh the food because if you not tracking, you slacking. The homie Robbie pulled up to the boat in another boat. Then me and the homie Eric went to the Heat game later that night. The Heat lost, but the only thing that could cure my sadness was watching these old people dance at the timeout. Now, I could have threw a CTA on there, right? But I don't always do that on the day in the life videos, but it would have worked too, right? You know, I really like this content and people like it too. It brings them into your life. Welcome to another day in the life of a baller shot caller in Miami, Florida. Started off with sunrise oceanfront cardio followed by a light body weight workout. Nothing crazy, just light work. Did more cardio while taking my first meeting. I'm showing I'm working out doing this cardio. You know what I'm saying? I'm showing that I live this [\h__\h] It took some more meetings with the camera facing the ocean to flex on the other attendees. Got a free water delivery from this local company called No Days Off. While on one of my other balconies, we realized that Jeremy just moved into a condo next door. So, I stopped what I was doing to go check out the homiey's new place, and he has the biggest balcony I've ever seen on a penthouse. Yo, Jeremy lost almost 30 pounds since this. You know what I'm saying? Shout out to him. Then it was time for dinner in my favorite restaurant. Of course, I got my scale with me. My girl and my boy Tom and his girl came through. Tom came through dressed like he was about to drop the hardest mixtape of the year. I don't drink, but my girl had maybe too much to drink, and that's always works out well for me. And it's like these people become recurring characters in your reality show, right? And people start to get emotionally invested with it. It's dope. And somebody asked, "How do I record hands-free?" I had the Meta the Meta Shades. Then you could just record [\h__\h] all the time real easy. But a lot of [\h__\h] was done on my phone. I'm going show you day in the life of a baller shot caller. I had my driver pick up me and my son to take us on our adventure. He drew a picture of me and it's super accurate. We pull up to Build-A-Bear Workshop to make our own toys like bosses. He made a Simpsons colored Sonic and dressed them like Harry Potter. Then we hit up Lego Discovery World, played with Legos, build Legos, play Lego games, and then bought some Legos to take home. We jumped back in the whip and tell the driver to take us to this slime place. I forget the name of the slime place, but it's a place we can play with slime and do slime stuff. Then we put on the ponchos and got slimed. I used to watch Nickelodeon Double Dare as a kid, and I always thought, man, one day there's going to be me. I'll get slimed. And it happened, man. Dreams come true if you work hard. Message. You know, the Carter boys had to play in the slime, rolling the slime, and running the slime. Then we hit up Dave and Busters. We started playing games, winning games, winning tickets, getting merchandise. Seemed like he had a pretty good day. I went to the gym to get another workout. So, I'm just showing my life and I'm bring I'm showing them different parts of me, right? These videos are important because people want to buy from you, they have to know you, like you, and trust you. And if you bring them into your life, it helps build that no- like and trust. I'm going to show just one more. A day in the life of a baller shot caller in Miami, Florida. My day starts super early with oceanfront cardio and body weight exercises followed by desoia. She was eating waffles with some big titties. I took my morning meetings while exercising doing cardio on my desk bike or dyke. This allows me to work on my fitness and my body simultaneously. Food. Like I'm showing that I'm literally living this [\h__\h] you You know, it's not a game, you feel me? Like I'm done had two, three workouts already. Like, I'm showing that I live this [\h__\h] For lunch, we hit up this spot called Joe Beach. They had a lot of keto options for me. My girl clearly has some sort of deal with the devil that allows her to eat whatever she wants and look like this. Then I spoke at my boy Jeremy's mastermind where everyone said I was the best speaker as usual. Got another quick workout in before we hit up another spot for dinner. People don't believe this, but I take my scale with me everywhere I go. I walk the walk. I'm showing you I walk the walk so I can weigh my food and hit my macros. Then it was time to watch the Mavericks lose, right? And to show that I'm a real guy, man. I watch the Mavericks lose like everyone else. These videos are really well done. Really good. Maybe maybe this is self-indulgent. Aller shot caller in Miami, Florida. I start my day off every day with a walk on the ocean. I see this lizard every day. I named him Lorenzo. Yo, straight up. So, I'm telling you, these people become characters if you do this enough, right? And if people really like to like you and trust you, people be hitting me up, yo, what's up with Lorenzo? Where's Lorenzo at? Right after they saw him in some of these videos. We have not seen Lorenzo in about a year. We think, we suspect he got eaten by a bird or something. It's a circle of life. After I catch up with Lorenzo, I hit my first workout. Then it's time for sales team meetings over breakfast. I hit the gym again like a G. Then start getting ready with my girl. She got big titties and butt. You ain't got to pick. You can have both. We met up with Tiffany at a Korean barbecue spot cuz she Asian. Of course, I got to bring my scale with me. If you're not tracking, you slacking. We said bye to Tiffany cuz she was about to go get birthday drunk. Then we hit up Cardier to check out the new watches. I could not decide between the steel and the gold. I'mma get both. Then my niece came through. I changed clothes and took her to the arcade. We played every game twice. Then I took her to the mall. Once we got to the mall, I ran into one of my subscribers. I guess he grows puppies and sells them. That's cool. Then we met up with everybody for dinner and that was my day, right? That kind of [\h__\h] really works, man. You you they don't have to be as wild as mine. You can also post just like mindset [\h__\h] Talking headstyle really works for these. I prefer it. Like, so here's an example. Going to the gym or you hate dieting or you hate anything you have to do to accomplish your goals. I want you to change your mindset. The fact that you don't enjoy it and do it anyway is something to be proud of. Cuz any [\h__\h] can do [\h__\h] that's fun and exciting, but because you're putting yourself through something that you don't enjoy in service of a goal or service of something greater that sets you apart and it makes you literally better than them. Throw out some mindset. You know what I'm saying? Now, I could have said, "Hey, if you want some help with what to do in the gym, comment the word boom boom." You know, and that would have been a good CTA. Let me give you another example of this. Four things that mentally strong men do. First thing you got to do is stop saying you're going to try to do things or I'm trying to do this. You can't be a try baby. That almost implies that failure is an option. You need to attack your goals with a sense of urgency that looks like madness to regular people. Second thing you need to do, stop complaining. You always need to be looking forward. The third thing you need to do, monitor the way you talk about yourself because your words are just your thoughts verbalized. So you never want to say stuff like, "Man, I just can't figure out how to do this." You need to reframe that to, man, I got to figure out how to do this. And the last thing you need to do is to reframe all of your setbacks as positive because they actually do make you stronger if you move past them. I've lost money. I've lost businesses. I've lost everything before and I came back stronger now. I don't have as much fear because I already know if I lose it, I know how to get back here. And when you have that kind of mentality, that makes you one of the most dangerous mother. So that's that's mindset. You can do that either one, the talking head, voice over, or text only. I prefer talking head for those kind of videos. Those are those are just just some of the many ideas of things you can post on Instagram that will make you more money. Especially if you follow the Epic Formula, it's going to really work for you. And how do I know this? Cuz I've helped over 15,000 people build successful online fitness businesses. I made my first million as an online trainer before I started teaching people this [\h__\h] If you want to learn how to do it, too. We got a free ebook called the ten commandments of online training that will will break down this and more really how to build your business even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a lot of experience. Hit the link in the description. All right.