How many cameras you guys got? What's up, S Army? Here at the gym. Got a special guest for you guys. Big man Carter. So, we're going to get be getting a workout in today. We did push yesterday, but we're going to do we do upper, right? That's what we're doing upper body. Oh my. Yeah. So, we got legs tomorrow. So, we're going to hit an upper body workout today. Um, we're going to film as much as we can here, but majority of the footage will be on his channel. Check it out. Workout's going to be epic. Epic workout. We're going to try some of his stuff. Yeah. Dump that out. Try this out. Brand new. Brand new, man. This is huge. Have y'all seen him making like games like like that? Like if you finally you finally put on some size. You like that's quality right there. Okay. Okay. Okay. Make it easy. Easy, man. Oh, and it's right on top on top. You planned that, right? Right on top, bro. This is quality control. Quality. All right. So, there's a piece of pre-workout, bro. Scoop. All right. Throw that up there. There we go. There we go. There we go. There we go. All right. So, we got the pre-workout everywhere. We got to get Oh, he's put in there cuz he knows what he's doing. That's how you got to do it. Brain's fault. It's always always that matters. That was actually Frank's fault. Throw these on top. What flavor is this? That is hypnotic watermelon. Hypnotic watermelon. This is popping cherry. Popping cherry. I like that. I like that. I knew you would, man. All right. Now we're ready to work out. Yeah. Make some game. You got to drink it first. No, I want to take yours already. Oh yeah, man. I took I took my uh his like Oh, the Satan army. Satan say no. Shout out to the Satan Army. I want y'all to know I'm not as strong as your boy, nor do I plan on pretending that I am or trying to be. He's being honest. I'm just No, no, no. I'm old man now, man. Old man car. It's delicious and nutritious. I like cherry, man. I like popping cherry. My kind of guy. Is that really good cherry? # team cherry poppers. We're going to have the the the the protein hopefully later this year. The isolate and caffeine isolate way after mix. Uh cookies and cream pie flavor. Bam. Serious. Cookies and cream pie. Chocolate. Chocolate. Cookies and cream pie. Are you serious? Really? Yeah, man. drinking that green pie from a brain idea to Don't start Don't start searching Brandon Carter cream cookies and cream pie. They start making memes of you with the brother at the bottom. He doesn't measure them every day like you. I'm not obsessed with you around like me, man. I think it's more of a mental thing. I've always wanted to 18, so I know I'm probably not going to get there for a really long time. Are you Are you not 18 now? No, not 18, man. M you're like close to 18, but you're you have longer arms than me. Ah, so it's like just it's like an illusion. You're still strong, though. probably still arms are like 9 18 probably like I don't know coming out of the cut cuz when I cut down they definitely shrank like I just did um probably around like 17 maybe 17 half I I don't think I've ever got past 17 half. Uh yeah, only when I think 17 already, man. The back of my head right here, man. Popper. You got big eye right there. I like the tingles. Upper body. Upper body. Upper body. That's all I really do. Chicken legs. Chicken. Actually, I like we did we did a like a year ago, a little over year. We we just we ran a squat every day. We squat. We do squat every day for 90 days. And like yo, my legs got so big that like I barely like like too big. Like I had to buy old jeans and my legs are like big. Huh? No. No man. I was in such I was looking like I didn't get a lot stronger though. I didn't get the same way. You got a lot stronger. Yeah, I was. But you got a lot stronger. But like I didn't I mean I gained some but it's like mostly was just like size man like my glutes and my hamstrings got that's what I think like legs like since you use them all the time I feel like you just they're one of the muscles where you got to destroy them to grow especially if you don't got the genetics for them you know just cuz it's like calves you're always walking around you know on your calves I feel you got to beat the [\h__\h] out of your calves you want to grow your calves three four times a week you know even calves every day I guarantee your calves will grow yo I've been doing that lately like like every day every day like doing 100 calves and I hold like my my like some weights and I've been doing like a that's like my only body. So like every day I can't cast. Yeah. Like when people say like their cows can't grow, man, just you're not trying hard enough. Yeah. See like I think I was trying to train up like other body parts and I don't think it's like that. The legs didn't really surprise you. Caps is the most work muscle on your body anyway, you know, just standing there walking around, you know. That's why you see all these like fat guys with huge calves cuz they're walking around, you know, 300 lb all the time, you know, and they're literally doing calves every day, you know, with all the extra weight they're all jealous development. They start working their calves. Their calves are going to be ridic. I just do when I think about it, I'll just do like some one leg. I swear to God like all day. Like this is like all day thing. I think about it and I start their calves. One leg cuz one leg is like it's kind of a lot, you know. Anyway, as you can tell, my pre-workout kicked in. The thing about the BCA, it has 5 g I mean 50 g of caffeine. Well, 25 25 g. All right. How much caffeine does every workout? 300 300. black beside all people from Chicago got that wearing red and black me or that's your thing. That's your thing. Yeah. Maybe to the pool. I want a bull's game tonight. Oh yeah. Knicks any game this season. Did you take your pre-workout though? Yes. Did you film it? Did you Snapchat it? Come on. Promotion. Promotion. We're here. the business. I promoted I promoted the subway all morning. So, you kind of discover you since you're I don't care. No, it's not. Nice. That footwork. That's some fancy footwork. Back at it again with the red sneakers. All right, so Goku's the best jump rope. Goku jumps. Goku skip. You want to change your name? Goku skip. Go, go, go for it, brother. Go. Do your thing. Do your thing. Bro, just keep just making it. Just go. We can. Don't lose focus. Don't lose focus. Don't lose focus. So hard to remember. Guess who we working out with. Yo yo yo Goku. Yo Snap back at the gym with Goku. What's up Snap? Follow me. Goku flex. Yo who you working out with today. real quick. I'm dyslexic, man. I I'll split that [\h__\h] with two Rs and a and a J. I I couldn't put on any size until I started doing full body, man. I think everybody's different, right? But I didn't really put on size, man. I tried all type of splits. You know what? When I when I was real younger, I had so success with one part a day. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I feel like bros are good because it helps build that like mind connection. Yeah, I think a lot of people when they like if they were like a brand new person, they full like only one exercise bicep, you know, they might not feel the bicep, know how it works, you know, learn a lot like I can do it. I can handle the best camera starting. Bro, that's like the majority of my thoughts were about like, "Okay, I'll give you another their wife. But see how big we can get like we can train her like she's she gain you gain like 30 lbs. Uh like 25 and I moved here in November. Yeah, dude. Kind of December cuz I was I moved here in November 18th. So and I started working like from December. So with with maintaining a six-pack the whole time. That's all I was like. Oh, your turn brother. Just do a little warm up. Warm up. It's like it's not even like so much like a like a sexual thing. I'm just like amazed. It's like holy [\h__\h] I feel like I'm responsible for that a little bit. I like to take a little I feel like I should get some credit. If you like Bella's butt, you can thank me, man, cuz I helped build that. Yeah. Yeah, I'm being that one almost took it down. [\h__\h] Watch out for that, [\h__\h] It's you. What kind of like animation like what kind of like carto like a fat I'm like I'm like a fat man. I'm like a cos they they know they know I'm doing this because you're like like I'm doing 100 like almost like 80% just because I was inferior and that is 100% the truth not you but some guys on the bench. You see this [\h__\h] [\h__\h] All right. I feel like I feel like dumb your whole body. It's a hypothesis, bro. I might be wrong, you know, but I think honestly I'm I might be wrong, but I don't know. I feel like that's why I still feel like there's only a fly right there as well. You feel that exhaust just burn right like it's easy. It's kind of heavy. It's not heavy, but I feel like you show their like stabiliz right now. Yeah. Some people think that's [\h__\h] when they see it, but it's definitely not [\h__\h] It's not. Nothing about I think it is a good accessory work like the end of your workout. Rotator is funny like seems like armrest doesn't like Yeah, I think so. Yeah, but it doesn't hurt it for whatever reason. It's my thing. gun show with Brandon Carter. That form though, it's not about the guns. It's about poor facial expressions. Expressions. There you go. Yep. That's what it's about right there. That kaji though, he's part Japanese on his forearm. What is it? Money over fish. Are you serious? No. Okay. Or am I or am I might have been a drunk tattoo tattoo. You always hear the stories about people like getting clowned and thrown cuz they don't know what it is. You know what I mean? It could have been like money, power, wealth, and they put like I love dick. That's what I have. And they would never know. You know, that's what Bella has. Sorry. Sorry. I do have one of them on my back. Tattoo. Yeah, also Chinese letter. Oh, okay. Is that Chinese? That is Chinese, right? Or is that Japanese? Chinese. I'm just joking. I'm joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. I'm just joking. This is when we cut you one black. I get one black. I have plenty. you so tight on the internet, man. It's like one thing like I the PC is being like the worst. Everyone's so PC these days. Yeah, man. It's like like you know we we get crying, you know. So some people get really upset about that. What like this is pretty heavy. Oh yeah, it's a heavy stack, man. I can't get that whole stack. What were you doing? Hey man, these Manhattan weights and weighs more Manhattan drop by juice. Oh, man. Whatever feels good, man. You don't want to tell me I'm dropping like drop like one, you know? I do like 20. My camera angle. This is making me feel inferior, man. This is like This is like making me feel real uh inferior. I'm tired from the big heavy pop. You know what I mean? That's I got distracted. But yeah, you don't know. I feel you. You know, I think I feel like PM is AM and PM like if you can uh I I I try to work out twice a day. Like I really do like that's that's always my goal. I think that I do. I just for one one thing. First off, I'm lazy. Lazy, so I'm not going to do it. Second thing is most people can't copy that. Yeah. Most people it's like is this the four? Yeah. Oh, I was Look at that. I actually have a filter on it though. Oh, I forgot what filter it is. You okay? Yeah, I mine is raw, but yo, that looks looking good. Yeah. Makes the pants pop.