We out looking at the view from the top. Get into the don't stop. Get to the don't stop. Better catch up cuz we playing with me. Know you playing yourself. Yo, what up? What up? What up? Welcome to another day in the life. Starting this day at 700 a.m. I usually get up earlier than this, but it's the NBA playoffs. I'm black, so I got to stay up and watch the NBA playoffs. Usually I wake up at 4:30 or 5:30, but I feel like that's not even bad ass no more. But now Ash Hall waking up at 3:30. I seen Wes Watson talking about how he wakes up at 2:30. Next year cuz ain't even going to be sleeping. All right, so I got a busy day today. I'm going to be doing a my my two favorite things, making money and spending time with my friends and family. First thing I'm going to do today is these two injections. This is testosterone. Some of you know I've been on testosterone replacement therapy for melone. Then we have Tessa Morlin. It's a peptide I'm taking now. Supposed to help me burn fat and build muscle. We'll see. It's only the first week I'm going to take it. All right. So, this how much testosterone I inject twice a week. Here's the Tessa Morlin. How much this is every morning. All right. Now, I'm about to head to the gym workout with the homie uh Austin Dunk. Y'all may have seen him from the internet when he first started his fitness business. The dude who was running the show behind the the scenes, dude named Miguel. That's a dude who I mentored and used to work for me. When Austin first launched his online training, he was running some ads. And Miguel called me panicking cuz he was only getting commission. And uh Austin ain't know. I was actually running the ads behind the scenes. And that was back when he was in college. Now he's doing really good, man. We still consult with him. We still help him out. And I'm just super proud. We about to link up with him, get a workout in, get some updates. He just moved to Miami, so that' be interesting, too. Yo, met up with the homie, man, Austin. Yo, what's up, guys? You just moved to Miami, right? I did. Finally. Long time coming. Yeah. I I don't know what took me so long, but I finally did it. You was in Orlando. Orlando. Yeah. What's the difference between Orlando and Miami? So, Orlando's the biggest city I've ever lived in in my life. So, at the time it felt like a tier one city, but so far the biggest difference is the diversity of people. Orlando has a bit of a more suburb sort of life versus Miami is a lot of city. That's over. I'm still getting used to it. Like, just driving and having to pay to park everywhere. Uh drivers here are crazy, too. I mean, that's a huge difference. I saw him doing this wacky [\h__\h] I was like, "Yo, [\h__\h] is this, bro?" It's a scapular pull-up. It's the warm up before we do what we're about to do. So, struck. Okay. Warm up his calf, the muscles. There you go. Perfect. Yo, and that's it. Do about 10. Four. So, usually I have my chain belt, but I didn't bring it with me. So, we're going to sort of just put the weight between our legs and try to do weighted pull-ups that way. I aim for higher reps this time. losses. I'm handing them out. Yeah. Feel like I'm floating. I'm lost in the moment. I swear I could. So, we're going to do Brandon's favorite. This is one I actually learned from him back in 2017. Elevate. Ele. All right. Just got back from that workout with Austin. I met Austin back when he was in college. Right now he's a [\h__\h] millionaire in his 20s. And the thing that really helped him do that was building his social media around, you know, online fitness. Really building up his YouTube and his Instagram. At the time, Tik Tok didn't exist. and it helped make him a millionaire. It made me a multi-millionaire. And the thing is now it's easier than ever to actually build a following as an online fitness influencer. I know people think it's oversaturated or there's too many people doing it, but now it's easier now cuz more people are into it. The market is bigger now than it was back then. So now I'm about to eat breakfast. My girl Movia, she prepared this breakfast for me. Six eggs. I have a six bacons, blueberries. You can eat berries on keto. I drink Coke Zero. I know a lot of y'all know what this is scared of. Artificial sweetener. Artificial sweetener may be bad for you, but not for me. Green tea. Boom. And then she wrote everything down. She weighed the [\h__\h] for me. So, I'm put in my macros. Let's eat Trisha the breakfast. So, not everybody knows this about me, but I've been trading every morning for the last 5 years. I trade NASDAQ futures and today I made $11,000. I trade with a prop firm and I have a bunch of funded accounts and each one profited about $5 and $600. You add that up times 20, it's about 11 grand. You can see these are 150k accounts and each one is up over about 10 grand, $200,000 over the last few months. Profited about $200,000. They won't pay me. They won't let me take it all out at once, but they did send me money. Let me show you. So, I'm going to cover up the account numbers for security reasons. But you can see the other day I requested this much for each account. And one of them got denied for some reason, but all the other ones got approved. So, they gave me 50K. I'm trading with their money. I'm not even trading with my money. When I first started, I had to trade with my money. It was more made me more nervous and I was kind of trading [\h__\h] But now, I'm trading with their money. I'm just throwing it around, man. Give it. But I I've gotten pretty good at it. If you want to learn how to do this, I'm doing a live training where I show you exactly how to trade futures, how to get a funded account so you don't have to use your own money. This is perfect for people who don't have a lot of cash, right? My when I was trading with my own money, I had to have like 100k in Think or Swim to make it happen. But now I'm using their money and I got my money doing other stuff. If you want to learn all about this, I'm doing a free training on it. Click the link in the description. Now, I'm about to do this thing where I work with my students in HTT, high ticket trainer, where I teach them how to grow their online fitness businesses and I have a live call with them every week and I start the calls off saying, "Hey, how much money you made this week?" You'll see, man, it's always amazing. It's my favorite part of the week. Right now, we're at 9K. I'm probably going to hit like 50k this month. So, right now we're at nine. Probably gonna get 15 this month, you think? I'm going to hit 15. You're going to? All right. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz we still got a lot of month left. I'm all man. Yo, congratulations, man. Let's give my man Jonathan a round of applause. $9,536 in the last 7 days. In the last 7 days. Shout out to you. Let's give Jeremy a round of applause, man. ACT alumnus. 3250 last five days. 3,250 the last five days. Come on. Let's go. 5750 last week. Last seven days. We're sitting at 12,000 for the month. So, we need to get to 15. Come on, man. There's a lot of months left. Let's give Adam a round of applause. Let's go. Last week was uh pretty good. $8,200. Last week. $8,200. Uh yeah, pretty good week. We got $3500 for the week. And uh right now we are sitting just over 19K. My goal is to get to 25. Come on, man. Let's get crystal round of All right. So, what's happening now is I'm about to go and shoot two podcasts with at this podcast studio. I never been here before and I don't even know the people who I'm doing the interview with. All right. So, I got to the podcast studio talking to the homie Abraham. You first thing I said, man, what focal length is that? He said it was 50. And that's what I wanted. That's what I like to to shoot on, you know, cuz make us look good. It [\h__\h] makes you look different. uh the millimeters that make you look the most authentic to you is going to be anywhere between 35 to 50. Uh but 50 is just what makes everything look aesthetic makes you look good thing, man. So that's a good pro tip for you [\h__\h] man. When I found out where this podcast was getting shot at, they sent me the address and I looked at it and it said this and I thought it was the trap. You know what I'm saying? I thought this was like the hood, you know? So like I got two different guns on me, you know? Some [\h__\h] bring extra magazines. I just bring extra pistols. You know what I'm saying? I ain't got time to reload. I just grab the I just dig it. I just I just pull another gun off my waist. But it actually ain't bad here. It just I think this is a old photograph. It don't look like this no more. But I came I came like Black John wake up in this [\h__\h] man. Jamal W. So, what's happening now is we're going to go apartment hunt. You know, the condo might be growing out of it, you know. So, now we got to we got to look at some bigger places. Now, we can't downgrade. We got here private elevator. Four balconies, five bedrooms, three bedrooms. I can't be out here downgrading this [\h__\h] Six bedrooms. Six bedrooms. We got six bedrooms wrapped around balcony. Well, you that's what you're looking for. That's what she looking for. Oh, that's what she looking for. I was saying what we already had. We We got to go up to that. So now she's looking for six bedrooms to see what's up. Video guy Nema is filming it, but he's also driving us there. I'm running at ease with the soldiers. Never did it for myself. I did it for the culture. I had to come up with a plan for you. Got the upper hand where I rock. I need a sculpture way. You know what it is. I hold it. They see that we could be great. I bet they pull up. All right. So, we just checked out the first place. Man, you know this building is real fancy. you know, fancier than our building, but our unit is better, you know, like our it's not it's not an upgrade. And check out another place that may be more our style here. There was something weird about this building. Nobody who worked in here, none of the residents, no one smiled like the whole time. I didn't see no one I didn't see one smile in there. And everybody was acting weird like like the beginning of a horror movie, you know, and they go to like a town and everybody's acting strange. That's what it felt like in there, man. I ain't like it at all. It's just the vibes were off when I land again. I'm winning. It's harder to watch. I'm setting the stage. You should give me my soul. You lacking the spirit. You talk your neck, I'mma show you I'm with it. I would really hate for you to sit and watch me win again and win again and win again. I know it's probably getting on me and win a synonym. So if I ever win again, it's nobody at the minimum. my dig. Three years I never been in a pool in my building. I can swim really good, too. I know you don't think I can because I'm black, but I can swim. I can't play it safe. I like the pool. I like this place a lot. The gym was kind of I like the unit a lot. again. Even though it's I don't know, still smaller than our unit, we got more balconies. This my man Blake, man. Number one real estate agent in Miami, man. What's your Instagram again? Um, the bachelor. That's how I found him. His Instagram is like really cool real estate content. I never seen no real estate content like that, right? It was amazing. And then I found out we both uh got a lot of mutual friends, man. I had to make sure it wasn't a imposterator when I or an imposttor when I see you DM me. Oh, yeah. No, it should be. and I check him like it's really heavy. Cool that for sure, man. Thank you for showing us around, brother. All right, so I'm back at the crib. What's about to happen now is I'm about to go live on YouTube where I do my podcast. I do it live. We give people advice and [\h__\h] It's pretty awesome. You should be tuning in Victory Talk. A lot of people can't do their podcast live. They be editing and [\h__\h] We just do it live together. They going to make a mistake. I know I'm gonna make some mistakes and I just don't give a [\h__\h] Let me show y'all the podcast studio right quick. Yo, first of all, I got a lot of [\h__\h] here. First thing I got is a Nema. You got to have a Nema in your podcast studio. Yo, what's going on, man? Good. Good. What's good? We're good. Look at Look at his setup. It look like NASA. Feeling what this [\h__\h] is, man. So, we got the video switcher over here. We got like right now we are using three cameras. We can increase to five, six based on the guest. We got the roadcaster for monitoring the audio. We got the SSD to record. We got this monitor for switching live between the camera, making sure audio is great. Use a stream for streaming on YouTube. And over here, we just monitor everything, making sure the system goes perfectly and smoothly. This is how you switch all the cameras. Yes, this is how we switch between cameras, make mute people using the roadcaster and yeah, that's about it. And and wait, you got you got this mic to show. This is a good mic. This is a fantastic mic. This is a really easy to use mic, but great quality with XLR cable and that's how kind of I continuously monitor to make sure the audio of the guest U is always perfect. So, we got a fantastic and high quality show. Yo, we use shore mics. We don't use road mics. I don't like road mics, you know, cuz so people, you know, road I has the podcaster pro and every time I hear somebody speaking in that, it's like the high-end sound harsh to me. I used to be I used to run have a my own studio in Queens when I was in there. So I got I know a lot about audio engineering and I didn't I don't like the sound of those mics. But the shore mics like that one that's like a baby version of this one. Yeah. And that one used to be my office and that one's for guests, right? Yeah. Well, this is this mic right here. This is the SM7B. People don't know this. Nemo, you heard of Michael Jackson? I think so. Okay. Brings it up. Michael Jackson recorded the whole Thriller album on one of these. You know why? Because this mic, it brings out the bass a little bit. It has like and then the the highs aren't harsh. Like the Ro this high the high ends are harsh, the treble, but this is like it makes it your voice fuller and and bassier almost. And he needed that cuz he was alto. He had a real high voice. So, and then we got these lights. Lights is the most important part for sure. Rolex clock. And then of course the cameras. Yo, we only use Sony cameras except for right now. This is a GoPro. But we uh make sure we use Sony, right? Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Then I got a bunch of [\h__\h] over here. This is a computer I forgot I had. Oh, we got SP thy repellent. Obviously sponsor of the show. This is real product. Real product really coming out. Easy to apply spray to keep the thighs away. I like this [\h__\h] He got this [\h__\h] rotating. That's dope. Then we got these foam. So this makes the sound better. And then you you carpet. And we got the books. My girl put the books. Yes. She put the books and color coded them. It makes it that makes it easier to find cuz before I ain't have no system. I just had my books in New York just any kind of way. It would be forever to find a book I looking for, right? But now it's like somebody ask me, "Yo, man, where's Profit First?" Profit First is Blue. Boom. Got it. You know what I'm saying? And then another balcony. This where I have the dyke that's bike. I'll be out here doing my lies on this. Sometimes I'm out there chilling, reading. Sometimes I bring a guitar out here and start playing, you know, serenating the people, the good people of Biscane Boulevard. Oh, so this computer, this is not a computer. It's a laptop. And this is so I can see what's going on. It's like it mirrors yours. Yeah, it mirrors this one. So you can we can message you live and we can you can also read the comments. So I can't control this. I'm just seeing what's going on. Sometime he can talk to me. He brings up a doc where my girl and him, they have access to the docs, a share doc, and they can say stuff to me. Then I have my computer here. This is one of my computers, not this is like my podcast computer and my travel computer, but when I need to share something or talk about something and then I'll hook I'll hook my iPad up to this to start drawing. And then I'm drinking water. Awa. Keep a calculator here. My son gave me this Iron Man Lego cuz he he knows I love Iron Man. But uh let's let's start the show. Think about your dream girl. What does she look like? What does she smell like? What does she do for a living? What's her personality like? Now imagine, do you think that she's sitting around finger banging herself to a [\h__\h] talking [\h__\h] to strangers on the internet? Do you think that that's her ideal mate? You think she got a poster of that [\h__\h] when she was growing up. She had a she envisioned meeting a [\h__\h] like that. No, [\h__\h] And that's a wrap. And that's a wrap, man. Another podcast. I didn't get to any of the [\h__\h] that I had planned because it was so many questions. You know, sometimes I just answer the questions. It'll be that kind of thing, man. What you think of the pet crown? I think that was a fantastic episode. Even although you didn't get a chance to do the videos you prepared, but we still got the really cool video out of this. Yeah. You know what we do is so this the thing we do the live podcast and I prep stuff I'm going to say talk about and then Nema takes that Nema and his team they take it some Nema his team or Harry and his team they take that footage and then they make the long form YouTube videos sometimes short. So the podcast is like the nucleus of our content engine, you know. It's a pretty cool system, but not everybody can do a podcast live and make it good.