Heat. Hey, heat. Hey, heat. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You ready to get ripped, shredded, and you don't care about the ramifications and you don't care how it happens? This is this the perfect podcast for you to watch. I'm throwing caution to the wind today. Not about the years in your life. It's about the life in your years. We gonna show y'all some stream some extreme ways to get ripped and to build muscle, maybe even simultaneously. So, you know what that means. Let's start the show. Hell yeah. Mhm. I'm super excited about today's episode. Welcome, Victory Talk. Episode 207. Damn, we've been doing this [\h__\h] You know, this is the only podcast where we show you how to build your money, muscle, and mindset. I am your host, Big Brandon Carter, King Keto, Gymnasium Jesus, the Southside Savior, and I'm I'm not alone. I'm joined by I'm joined by the best podcast producer in the game. You know who it is. The homie Nema straight out of Iran. You know what it is. Come on, man. Wow. You know what I'm saying? You're the king. You're the king. Listen, man. You're the best producer in the game. There's been a lot of producers. Movies. When it comes to movies, best producer who? Harvey Weinstein. Music. Best producer. P. Diddy. Now, Nema following in the in the footsteps of those great men as the as the greatest podcast. Come on, man. Hey, man. He's the head that holds the crown. And we're also joined by Movia. She is managing the super chats, kicking out all the haters. You come in here talking [\h__\h] you going to get banished, banned, exiled indefinitely, right? So, don't do that. Don't Don't make it happen. Listen, we got a lot we want to cover today. I got a special guest who I'll introduce in a second. But before we do that, oh, it's the webinar. You know, before we do that, I want to we got to go through our sponsors. Like these other podcast, you know, they talking about you see these other podcasts, man. They got sponsors of saltwater mattresses, [\h__\h] um green drinks and [\h__\h] Nah, man. I'm sponsoring I'm sponsoring my own podcast. All right. So, the spot the sponsor for this episode is going to be a free training we're doing next Wednesday. Next Wednesday, 7 p.m. I'm going to live. I'm going to show you exactly how to grow your online fitness business from scratch. Even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have a lot of experience, I'm going to show you how to build your personal brand. I'm going to show you how to get clients online. And I'mma show you how to actually train your clients online so they get great results. All right, it's a free training I'm doing live. I I'll be on there. I'll answer all your questions. We're going to have a good time. We're going to have fun. I'm going to give away some stuff. It's going to be It's going to be amazing. All right, it's the first link in the description. Go ahead, click that right now. The next sponsor we have, The next sponsor we have is uh a product that Nema and I, we've been working on this for quite some time. We've been working on this for a while. And uh it's called Thot Repellent. Thought Repellent is the easy to apply spray to keep the hoes away, right? Because once you start watching the Victory Talk podcast, we gonna show you how to build your money, your muscle, and your mindset. Now, the only thing that can stop you is some is these hoes. A lot of great men that fell victim to some random thought, man. So what we did was we had Iranian scientists formulate this so it only affects the DNA of dots, hoes, [\h__\h] skanks, skezes, jezebels, scallwags, and hood rats. Regular women, they'll be like, "Oh man, you smell delicious. What's that? What's that aroma? What's that fragrance?" It'll be like, "Baby, that's thy repellent." Right? But if one of these stars try to get it next to you, she might. It's going to be like raid to them, right? They'll be impenetrable. They won't be able to get close to you. The thing is, we wanted to have it out by summer. But we didn't get enough super chats. We didn't get We didn't get enough super chats. Oh, we didn't get enough super chats. Yeah. So, the plan is to have it out by the back to school season, right? Back to school season. Cuz I know if you're like me, you going to be spraying this on your children before they go back to school. My son, my son is about to start third grade. Last thing I need, he on honor [\h__\h] Last thing I need is some thought to knock him off his game. All right. So, I'm going to be spraying him down this man before you before these little thoughts get to him. You know, you think they You think you think they don't know his daddy is Brandon Carter? Thoughts? No, man. They can pick that [\h__\h] up. So, anyway, you going to need this for your children? Maybe maybe even for your fathers. Like it it makes a it make a good Father's Day gift. You know what I'm saying? Keep you. But then some of y'all some of your moms is secret hoes. Well, whatever. It's not going to be out until the back to school season. As long as we get enough super chats. All right. So, all your super chats go towards the villain. Before introducing my guest, we have one. We have a hero who already who already contributed to the fund. I think he needs to be acknowledged immediately. You have JBN. Yeah. I just started my six month savings account. I got one key in it. How much would you recommend to save up before I can put my money into investments? I mean, bro, I I mean, I I really think you need to figure out what your monthly expenses is. It's like how many how much money do you need to live each month? Times that by six and that's the number, right? So, you got to start tracking your expenses so you can really understand that you can use monarch.com, hook up all your accounts, see how much you actually spending each month and what do you need to live and then multiply that by six, have that as savings, then you can start getting it in. All right. And then we got another one. Hey Brandon, what cologn would you recommend for daily everyday use? thigh repellent because this it doesn't just smell good. It's also useful. It has a medicinal use where it will keep it will keep these hoes away. Now, until th repellent comes out, you can go get afternoon swim by uh Louis Vuitton, right? Until until then. But that's going to attract all women, right? It doesn't exclude thoughts the way thought repellent does, right? So, good luck to you. All right. Hey guys, we got a special guest this episode. All right, I know some of y'all I know a lot of y'all following y'all want to get ripped. You want to get shredded, put on muscle, burn fat, maybe even simultaneously. And you know, I told y'all over the last 10 years or so, regular ways to do it. You know, some of stuff I said people think is extreme, but I was like, what if we turn it up a notch? Well, I had to bring on an expert. And that's why, but he's not going to just turn it up a notch. He's going to turn the knob up to 11 and rip the knob off. Kick it down the street. All right. Let me introduce the big homie, Dr. Russ, the peptide king. Let's go. What's going on, man? Yo, he just got a new watch, man. Show them the new RM. Come on, man. Let's go. I'm humble, bro. Like, hide that [\h__\h] No, you can't have that. No, man. We applaud victory here, man. We applaud victory here. All right. Um, listen, man. You specialize in You're the peptide king. Why they call you the peptide king, Dr. Russ? Peptide king. Cuz I've been in hormones since I was about 2018. Obviously, more, you know, anti-aging, more medical oriented. So, you know, we do testosterone replacement therapy for men and women. We have natural protocols for that. Obviously, we do stem cells. Every peptide out there known to man, we do. So, yeah, that's why they call me the peptide king, though, because I know about all that [\h__\h] What is a peptide before we get into what is what the [\h__\h] is a peptide? So, if you want to keep it really short and sweet in layman's terms, it's just a short chain of amino acids. Okay? So, kind of like, you know, when you take your glutamine, glutamine in a sense, or you know, leucine, isolucine, balene, your branch chain amino acids, they're just amino acids. So they break down and they help they're like building blocks of protein. Okay. So in a sense a you know a peptide is just a short chain amino acids they put together and when you inject it into the body it basically turns on other things. So for instance like a growth hormone peptide. It's not like real growth hormone but it's a secret. So it's going to turn on your pituitary gland in your brain where your growth hormone is produced and it's going to start surging and spiking that so you produce more of it which is going to lead to you know anti-aging, tighter skin. Mhm. Fat loss, muscle building, I mean you name it, it's, you know, sleep, recovery, all those are big benefits of like growth hormone peptides. Uh, okay. So, that's one of them. There's all types of different peptides. New one every month. Yeah, there's a peptide for every application out there. I mean, you got GHK, copper, which is helps you with your skin, kills free radicals, can help fight cancer. We got a pitholon. Apolon is huge. It literally lengthens your tieamir. So, it lengthens your actual lifespan. You can get a test done for that. You can get a tie test, go, "Oh [\h__\h] mine's this long. I'm going to die at 65." You can take a pitholon for say a set amount of time and then you could go back and get that test done and go, "Oh [\h__\h] now it says I'm going to live to 75. I just put 10 years on my life." You got peptides like that. You got M C. M is one that helps increase insulin sensitivity. And for all you guys out there in layman's terms, what that means is, you know, you eat carbohydrates. If you're already kind of fat and overweight, your body doesn't react to the food and it just stores it directly on the gut. Well, if your insulin sensitivity is elevated, then you'll actually utilize those carbohydrates. insulin will release into the bloodstream and then use that for fuel and building muscle and burning fat and it enhances your metabolism. So, Mi is kind of it's like a lowgrade GLP-1 and a GLP-1 that most people don't know out there. The GIPS those are all the rage right now. Ozimpic, Mangaro, the ones that all these people are using for this crazy fat loss, you know. So, Matsi is like the baby brother of that that's not quite as unhealthy. Amazing, amazing peptide. Let's start there. Let's start there. Tell me about Ozimpic. What are the pros, the cons, the benefits, you know, because people ask me about Ozic all the time, but I don't have I'm not familiar with it, but you are. Yeah. And let's keep it simple. A lot of the people out there just look at one thing. They want to lose weight. they listen to anybody and it's all the rage. Look, everybody's taking it now. But you got you got negative side effects to everything you do. So again, in my personal opinion, the Olympic um you know, let's say me as a bodybuilder, big guy, I did want to get cut up. It's not going to be my first choice of drug to lose weight. But I would say if I was going to do another competition and I'm the last 6, eight weeks and I'm just eating my damn hands off. Like I can't control it cuz I'm getting super low calories, no carbs. Oh, Zimpit could be that drug for me where I could micro dose it daily and it would just help me curb my appetite so I can actually sleep at night. It actually does have good benefits that it reduces kind of inflammation and swelling in the body. Um, so it is kind of in a sense it has good benefits and obviously it helps with weight loss too. Yeah. How does So from what I understand the only way it really helps with weight loss it just makes you less hungry. Is that the only thing it does in in layman's terms? Yeah. I mean the biggest thing is that it just suppresses the appetite big time based on your dosage obviously things like that. Now again there are that 1% of the population out there too that like a GLP-1 or the GLP-1 mixed with a GIP which GLP-1. So the GLP-1 is like the OIMIC. That's what Oz exactly. And then you have like its big brother which they call it their zepatide which is a GLP-1 and a GIP. So they just hit different receptors and different things. We won't get into like the scientific portion. No one's going to really understand that, but it's like just think of like it being as twice as strong as yellow. And then there's like retride, which is like a three in one. So it's super super powerful. So is not even the strongest [\h__\h] Yeah. Like like your simlutide, which is kind of the street name layman's terms that most people understand or oympic. Yeah, that's your most basic one, you know. Then you got terzepatide and then you have like retride. So they got three different ones now. Um but yeah, the main things it's going to do is suppress appetite. that 1% of the population, a lot of people don't know, won't react to it at all. Oh, really? Yeah. Like we've had patients, obviously I can't say who, whatever, etc., but we've had patients come in and they do great on the simlutide or oympic. They'll lose 15, 20 pounds and however long and then they'll want to switch and get something strong, try their zeptide does nothing for them. So just so you guys out there know again, it's just like anything else, some people react well, some people don't react. Now, I heard that people also lose a lot of muscle when they take oz. Exactly. So that's that's kind of that, you know, thing that people don't want to talk about. So I guess the stud, you know, a lot of the studies out there, and I know we'll put one up later. Um, you know, they say that if you, you know, the true studies, either one of those drugs, you take it for 52 weeks, you can lose about 15% body mass, and that's how they word it, body mass. So you're looking at overall weight is what your body mass is. But they're not saying, okay, you're going to lose, you know, let's say you're 300 lb and you want to lose 60 lb. You probably lose 60 pounds in a year. But how much of that was muscle? How much of that was fat? And how much of that was water? With Ozimpic, that's the one back, you know, the, you know, the thing they don't tell you about. It's it's it's it's the negative side. You're going to really lose mainly muscle. You So when you That's what the study showed. You lose ma mostly muscle when you take Ozic. That's what the study showed. Well, like some people who are on Ozic, they look uh kind of funny almost. I call it I'm call them like they're like shriveled up prunes. Yeah. They say that something called the ompic face because people lose all the muscle in their face. Yeah. Because you're losing you're losing muscle. You're not really losing the fat. So you almost the skin gets saggy and loose and yeah the tone changes. So but again we'll touch on it later. I'll hop into it. There's an awesome drug and a huge study they came out with that looks very promising. They're doing it with rats right now. Um it's a drug called folstatin or I say drug. It's another peptide but it's a proteinbased. you can take that with, you know, these GLP1s, GIPS, and you can actually lose fat with it and put on muscle. So, it's they're synergistic together. Incredible. So, this is this is something new coming out. You know, it's almost like they're creating all these designer drugs, you know, anabolics and stuff. We're going to get into that later. Is almost going out the window. It's like old school [\h__\h] We're starting to just completely get away from that here in the next, I'd say, 2, three years. Anabolics, testo, like if you're bodybuilder, testosterone, master, all the derivatives of testosterone, those are going to be a thing of the past. We're going to have something else. We're not even going to use that [\h__\h] anymore. It's just going to be obsolete because there's too many negative side effects. Yeah, that's that's the direction they're going with all these new designer drugs and peptides. Before we talk about that, let's just stick on Ozic just for a minute. Um, who who is Ozic for and who's it not for? I mean, you know, that's not something I can directly answer. Yeah. Um, as you know, as a doctor, but I mean, in my personal opinion, you know, I mean, I think it can be for everybody, but like you said, it's the application of it. So, like, it's not something I want to take or I've ever thought about taking, but like I said, if I did a bodybuilding show, I would use it to suppress my appetite a little bit, you know, very very a big time calorie deficit. Really more for me not to lose weight or lose fat, just to suppress my appetite. Okay? Because the thing is if I'm bodybuilding, you know, it's a great drug to utilize for its purpose for me. I'm only the muscle even if I use some of the semiglutai. But like public people, they're about their normal life. They're taking this stuff and uh you know, put the camera on him, please. Sorry. Yeah. They're stuff and like I said, they're not exercising. They're using it as a crutch to try to lose weight and they're not eating protein and the proper, you know, macronutrients that they need. So then that's why they're losing this massive amount of Yeah. gonna, you know, anything else without Ozic, but it's like that tfold because the ozics take appetite. You don't want to eat anything. So, you're basically just going into starvation mode, you know, and then obviously when you come off this stuff, it's really bad because then you go back to eating three times as much you were before and you're going to blow back up. Lots of inflammation because these people, what I say is they have a mouth problem. They can't control damn mouths. They have no discipline. You know what I mean? Yeah. You got to have discipline. Oh. So, so, so theoretically, if you took OMIC, but you made sure you hit your protein intake. Exactly. And you make sure you at least hit a minimum amount of calories. Would would you, in my personal opinion, you would keep your muscle mass and those statistics of just 50, you know, the 52 weeks and 15% body mass, I think, would look like a whole different story. Now again, we'd have to they'd have to do a research clinical trial and all that to determine it, which I think would be a good one. But yeah, I believe that, you know, got it. And again, I got a lot of friends that take it, you know what I mean, for bodybuilding shows and they don't lose they don't lose muscle mass because they're micro doing it, very small dose, just enough to control enough to control the appetite because it does help with sleep. Mhm. Helps sleep, inflammation. Now the other negative drawback of osimpic taking it long term it does you know in a sense it can it can weaken your bone cortical bone it can cause osteoporosis. Oh [\h__\h] just like one just like one of the other know about an astrool or a remadeex it's an estrogen blocker same thing over time damages your cortical bone it also has a really negative side effect on your cholesterol levels. So it increases your you know it'll increase your LDL and it'll decrease your HDL. So again if you guys out there don't know HDL is like your good cholesterol. That's the one that protects your heart cholesterol that mainly comes from the foods you eat in a sense in layman's terms. So yeah, an astroolex which blocks estrogen which is used in male testosterone replacement therapy with your testosterone. You know they see all these regular doctors giving two whole pills a week which is 2 milligrams way too much. It's causing a lot of negative side effect oneoff wellness program for each person. That's where TRT can also get a bad rap too because the docs are just here's your 200 milligram testosterone shoot it once a week with a big IM needle and then here take your whole pill of a nashol on Monday and Friday and give the same [\h__\h] to everybody but it doesn't it's that's not how it's supposed to be. Everyone's hormones are different. It depends on how much like let's say for instance your testosterone if you're taking a standard TRT dose 200 milligrams you're breaking it up into two shots a week. Yeah. and your testosterone is right at the maximum of normal, a thousand. And let's say you're doing your your daily workouts, but you're only doing them four days a week. You know, your handstand push-ups, all this [\h__\h] you normally do, brand, but then you up it to you go, I'm ready to up the ante. Let's [\h__\h] train seven days a week. And you start doing that same routine seven days. Your testosterone is not going to be a thousand anymore. You're going to burn through it. Just like if you floor your car, you're going to burn through more gas. really your testosterone total is now going to end up going down to say 650 700 just you know in layman's terms to kind of explain the example that's what'll happen and you're going to have to bump your dose up. Oh so that's why hormones and all these things with these medical doctors it's not a one-sizefits-all. Everything has to be customuilt per patient and you have to keep a hold on it. Like so at our clinic we do labs four times a year. You get labs at the beginning we put you on your program. You get labs, you know, about 10 weeks later, we adjust your dosages to hone it in to what's good because you've been on a you've been on the stuff for, you know, two months, constant nice routine we given you. So, we get a nice baseline, then we make an adjustment to hone it in 100%. And as long as you don't make lifestyle changes or exercise changes, you're good. And we normally kind of check up on that about 6 months later. Uh, and then if you're still good, we keep it there. If you need a little tweak, cuz let's say you started, you came in and said, "Hey, doc, I'm working out two more days a week. I'm feeling freaking awesome. You know, we're going okay, we do your labs, probably going to need to up your dose a little bit. And then say in the winter time, which my there's not one, but it's let's say live somewhere where it's cold happen. You're going to go lazier. You're not going to want to go to the gym. It's you're going to hibernate back your dose down because you're not going to burn through it. And if you keep taking the same dose, that's when you start getting negative side effects. higher cholesterol, higher blood pressure cuz your levels are going to go they're going to exceed where they should be because where we had them perfect at the top at 1,000. Yeah. You're going to stop working out now is going to stay in your blood and your levels are going to rise because you're not burning it off. I never thought about it. Yeah. Yeah. Burn. It's a receptor. It binds to your receptors. You know, the different drugs do different things. We'll get into that, too. There's protein, you know, mediated drugs that get broken down by proteins and then there's receptors where it's almost like a lock and a key. So, you know, every drug's different. Okay. All right. Listen, speaking of drugs, let's say let's say I wanted to burn as Let's say, okay, let's say there's a guy he wants to get as ripped as possible. What like what the ramifications are? You know what? Hold that question. We're talking about Wolver Wolverine movie riff, huh? Like CGI [\h__\h] You know what? I got a different question. Hold on to that one. Right. But check this out. Why are peptides better than anabolic steroids? Or are they? Yeah. So, that's a loaded question. You know what I mean? And there's and you know, we're still doing a lot of research on peptides. They're still newer. You know, I've been in the game. I've known about peptides since probably 2014. So, I've been I've been exposed to them for 10 years. Mhm. I could walk down South Beach right now, even into one of the gyms. Let's say there's a 100 people in there, you know, I could ask all 100 of them, do a survey, hey, do you know what this peptides is? Is 80% of them still don't really know what peptides are. So, they're still, even though they're not new, people, it's just now starting to kind of hit mainstream and it's still only in these big cities like Miami or California where everybody's fit and in shape. You know, a lot of these people up north, New York, you know, Chicago, they don't even know what [\h__\h] pep, they don't even know what peptides are. They're like, "What? Uhhuh." You know, BPC, what is that? So, but yeah, it's starting to catch on though. It's becoming mainstream a lot more. Um, but sorry, I got a little off track. What was the question? You want to get You want to get shredded, right? No, no, no, no. We're going to come back to that. Why are they better? Okay. Why are they better than anabolics or steroids? Yeah. So, so in my personal opinion now and my experience, I've been taking them for probably about 10 years. What I've seen with me is, you know, my blood markers on my redraw my blood works. Vast improvements on the peptides versus anabolics. And yes, guys, you know, I was younger. I've competed in bodybuilding. I've dead, you know, I try to stick to more TRT now, be healthy, and do peptides, things like that because yeah, I mean, it's it's unhealthy off your life for sure. But like you said, some people don't care about that. Back then, I didn't care. I want to stomp the curb and crack the sidewalk, bro. You know what I mean? Now I'm like, "Hey, I'll stay 240, 250, lean, shredded, and I'm happy with that. I don't need to be talking bending over to tie my shoes and I'm out of breath." 15 and it extra weight. Waking up twice at night to eating [\h__\h] Wow. Talking 7,000 calories, you know. Okay. Seven meals each. But now that's when you were on what days. You know, probably stacks um was testosterone. What a lot of guys don't realize is, you know, to get really goods, a lot of these guys think, "Oh, I'm just going to take a thousand milligrams of test." I see it all the time. I'm like, dude, you can't even absorb that much. So, you're just going to get a [\h__\h] ton of side effects and it's really not even going to help you looking to put on. So in less is more but create stacks and program me like hey okay let me just do 300 milligrams of test 200's TRT let's do 100 milligrams more my testosterone is going to be 2,000 which is still double the normal limit that's plenty you know I mean and again I see guys out here taking 1,000400 milligrams of test week I'm like dude that's 6x what I'm taking they'll get their blood work done and I'm like bro your total test level right now is 7,000 Dallas from Carver when he passed away, you know, they they did all his stuff. Um, if people know who he was, huge bodybuilder, he was going to Olympia. Yeah. And yeah, his testosterone level when they when he passed away, it was 50,000 or something like that in his bloodstream. So again, who knows how much he was doing, but again, I'm just like, you know, I'm not going to say that's what killed him, but I mean, I know in my opinion, I mean, that's just sound like it would help. That's what I'm saying. Yeah, that's not going to help you, I don't think. Now again, like we talked about, you you know, sometimes these guys, they're pushing limits. They want to be the best in the world. Yeah. But even that, that's kind of crazy, you know? I mean, you could go five times a normal limit. If you can't pack on 20, 25 pounds in a year doing that, something's wrong. It's it's really more the food. But yeah, peptides to me are better because from what I've seen, there's less side effects. Again, we don't know like fully long term, but I know as far as just looking at statistics, which to me is the data and the blood work, you know, all my markers were much much more improved uh on, you know, taking nine or 10 different peptides at a time, and then just doing my TRT dose, a little over TRT dose, like 250, you know, could up that for sure if I do another show. Yeah. like he test, you know, because I'm getting on stage with these guys that are doing 1,000 milligrams. And if you want to compete, like you said, you want to compete with the big dogs, you got to be taking the [\h__\h] they're taking or you're just not going to win. That's just that's just what that's just what it is. You got to be willing to sacrifice uh if you want to if you want to be these top dogs, you want to be a pro if that's what you want. Exactly. So peptides are they as effective? In my opinion, when you do the right stacks, 100%. So, like, so like, um, right now, let's say I want to get lean, pack muscle on. I mean, I've probably put on six, seven pounds of solid muscle in the last four months. So, literally Oh, wow. Over, you know, about a pound and a half a month, dude. And and that's that's intense, especially cuz you're you're how old are you? 38. I'll be 39 in July. Yeah. I can't even keep up with this [\h__\h] I'm getting old, bro. 39. Yeah. And you've been training for a long time. That's probably the biggest I've been training since I was 17. Seriously, I competed my first show in 2014. Um Oh, wow. All right. So, about, you know, about 11 years ago when I started competing and I did four shows after that. I kind of hung it up. I almost did one about two years ago. Got about four weeks out and I'm like, do I really want to go these last four weeks, like you said, that's where you're getting really freaking hungry. You want to kill everybody. And I'm just like, this is going to start affecting my money and my business. It's not worth it for a plastic trophy. I'm not gonna be, you know, Ronnie Coleman or Jay Cutler or some 300 pound monster and and win the Olympia. I'm like, it's not worth it anymore. But it's super fun for sure. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Because I'm competitive. I'm a Leo, man. I love If anything I do, it's it's a 100 or nothing. I'm balls to the wall. What's the What's the peptide stack that's as good as steroids or anabolics? Yeah. So, but it's also safe. So, if I was going to take a natural, say, athlete that maybe maybe you know, somebody like you, somebody's just on TRT, but they want to up the ante, but they don't want to dabble in anabolics. Yeah. They don't want to mess with all that. Yeah. I'm going to put them on, you know, Tessa Morlin. Okay. Which is, you know, the benefits to me of Tessa Morland, massive, massive pumps in the gym. Everybody we put that on or everyone who takes it says, "Holy [\h__\h] dude." And it's because of a nitrogen retention cuz it's a growth hormone. So nitrogen is obviously what helps with your protein and it it kind of swells the muscle up, fills it out in layman's terms. So you get massive amounts of nitrogen retention. So the tesamor gives you super pumps, you get a ton of circulation and blood flow to the tissues. So again, that means more growth because if you're eating, taking your other submit aminos, you're shuttling all that right to the tissues when you train. So tesiman is massive. And the beauty of testimon stomach fat directly in that trunkal stomach area. So it targets that. Exactly. Okay. So it's not an all over. It does burn fat all over, but it literally shrinks the waist, which is insane. So I do the tessamoron IGF-1 LR3 or DEZ. So I'll explain the difference on those. IGF-1, LR3, LR3s, it's just like a long Esther. So it stays in the system a little bit longer. DEZ spikes, you know, couple of seconds to a couple minutes and it's kind of in and out of your system. Um, and IGF, what people don't realize, it creates hyperplasia. These guys out here don't know what that is. It's almost like, let's say, Brandon, you had a hundred muscle fibers in your bicep. Yeah. Well, it'll cut those 100 muscle fibers all in half. Now you'll have 200, but they're half the size they were. But then you create hypertrophy in the gym when you get your pump and you train, and those 200 now enlarged to the size of the original 100. Now your arms say twice as big as it was. So over time, that's what IGF-1 does. So it's it's sight injectable. You can put it in whatever muscle group you want to actually grow and train and it actually works. Inject it into the muscle you want to train. Exactly. So if you want your biceps bigger, you can put the IGF-1 into the biceps every time you train them or if you want to do it in your legs and it actually will grow that area faster. It still goes systemic all over the whole body, but it will that's one of the drugs out there that in my opinion truly is a sight injectable i.e. drug, peptide, whatever you want to call it, you know. Okay. Um and it works really good. So tessamorand IGF um it's a newer peptide out there called folstatin. We'll probably touch on that but I'll just say for it. Basically what it does is it inhibits your myostatin. So it basically just turns off anything that slows your muscle production down. So it just makes you start instantly in a sense producing muscle. It's pretty cool stuff. Yeah. Very strong. Um again they're doing studies on it still but that's kind of one of these new designer drugs. It's It's almost like, you know, me versus Brandon. Yeah. Brandon's genetics as an African-American versus a white Caucasian, I'm just never going to compete. I mean, even even as a bodybuilder, I mean, you know, he can pack on if I put him on my diet, my workout routine, all that. Brandon would be 270 lbs in no time and make Ashton Hall look tiny. You know what I mean? Dead serious. So, and again, Ashen Hall, like you said, he probably I've seen him train the gym. He trains. I'm not going to sit here and discount that, but he's not a bodybuilder. He's not just his mind focus isn't just like let's get huge. You know what I mean? He just packs muscle on naturally. So you think and that's because he doesn't make as much myostatin. Oh, so you think so you so basic for the record, you think Ashton is is natural. Yeah, I think I think Ash is natural. I mean, he's got a great physique. I've seen him in the gym train. He's a big dude and he's come, you know, he put some pre and post from a couple of years ago. It's not a drastic difference, bro. I've known Ashton for a long time, so maybe I'm biased, but I think he's natural. I've coached a lot of guys in the bodybuilding realm and in the athletic world in general. I mean, I've even had golfers that we put on, you know, hormones and stuff because they just want to get a stronger swing. And people think that steroids just you just automatically you're huge. It's not how it works. You got to put in the work. You got to put in the food. It's all the 1%s add up to get the result that you want. But yeah, Ashen Hall 100%. If he claims natural, I think he's natural, man. I'd love to see him on some gear because he would be a gear. Insane. Some people are just like I I had a a friend who used to train like bodybuilders who people who were in the Olympia and he said, man, there's a real genetic per there's a there's a genetic part of it, right? Like he said that some people he would put on gear and they couldn't even get their pro card on gear. And there was some people who never did gear. They got their pro card now. They didn't win Olympia or nothing, right? But they didn't they they naturally it's a genetic predisposition. It's ethnicity cuz look at look at Asians. Most Asians are just naturally short, small, you know, it's how they live. It's how they've always trained. It's what they eat, you know. So, um, yeah, a lot of that plays a role over the generations. People understand that it's generations. It's not just overnight. You know what I mean? But yeah, you take that into effect and yeah, for sure. I wasn't meant to be big at all. 100%. I'm a white little skinny Caucasian. I mean, you know, at at 19 years old, I was a buck 30 soaking wet at, you know, 5'11, six foot. I mean, zero muscle whatsoever. You know what I mean? I built this body on blood, sweat, tears, and anabolics. I just, you know, it is what it is. You know, if I didn't ever take something to enhance somebody, I wouldn't be the size that I am. I already know that. I trained natural for years and I literally gained almost zero progress. And there's another part of it though, like some people don't understand how important diet is, you know? So a lot of times people will say 200% diet. When people ask me, I say it's 200%. Yeah. Diet's a 200%. All the other shit's a negative. Cuz even before I started taking testosterone, people make videos about me saying that I wasn't I wasn't natural and and I really was natural, but I but I you seem you've been and TRT people out there, TRT, in my opinion, okay, testosterone is a synthetic drug. you're injecting your body, but it's already produced naturally. So, a guy like me, I like to clear that up. When I was when I was 19, 20 years old, my testosterone was like 75. I had no testosterone, so I couldn't get bigger. So, I got put on testosterone at a young age. I tried the natural route. All that didn't really work. So, again, but it just brought me up to an acceptable normal range. So, like every lab's a little different, but like the range is normally 3 to,200. So, again, when I was say 21 years old, they put me at a,000 test level. So then I was actually at least able to, you know, compete and be a normal human being because people don't realize if you don't have testosterone, you're going to get obese. You can get early onset diabetes. You're going to have brain fog. You know, you're not going to be mentally sharp. So it's not just about muscle growth and and things like that. It's your health. It's long-term health. Testosterone is good for you. Even if you're injecting it synthetically from a lab, a lot of people's like legit some sound like you was legit medicine, you know? Yeah, it's medicine. If you're if you don't have it versus having it, there's way more side effects, man. Life was different. Way more side effects if you don't have it. Yeah. What I was saying was before I even went on it, people thought I was on gear, right? And I I really wasn't. But what they didn't know is like I keep a scale with me everywhere. I go to weigh all my food. I make sure my number. I'm like, I thought I was disciplined as a bodybuilder, bro. You're just crazy with it. So, it's like you you couple that like that if anybody did, they're going to get like way better results. Especially if you start doing it for a decade, right? diet is so important. But then there is a genetic piece of it because I remember my brother's like way older than me. He's in his 60s. And he's he started testosterone replacement therapy like really like a while ago. I think I was in my late 20s, maybe early 30s when he started. And he said, "I don't know, man. Maybe you get your your testosterone tested." And I got my testosterone test. I don't remember the number, but I do remember the doctor. They put you on TRT. It's probably right in the middle. Maybe three. No, no. This is before this. This is like this is when I just got it tested. Just had it tested, right? And I was in my late 20s, early 30s. And I don't remember the number they told me, but shorty was like um she she said, "Are you on something?" Your testosterone was like really high. I don't So you were like 12. Yeah. And we've had guys come in the clinic that are even mid30s and yeah, we'll draw their labs. They've definitely never been on anything and their testosterone's 12, 1300. We're like, "Bro, you're you're literally 100 points above the normal." Now again, they might be taking some natural supplements like DHEA. You're taking your minerals and your magnesium and B12. All those things too actually help you produce more testosterone. They're essential micronutrients and minerals that can actually boost your test levels, especially the vitamin D or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. All your vitamins. But imagine you take that guy and have him dialed in his diet like I was for 10 years. Exactly. He's going to he's going to look like he's on roids for 10 years. You know what I'm saying? For sure. You know, like so the diet the diet part of it is what people man I you know people look at me man that's too much to track your calories. I'm like bro if you did that for a significant amount of time people would think you on steroids like they did with me. And I did and I did it like you did for years when I competed every gram was weighed out. But I will say for the guys out there that want to look like you do or they want to look like I do. And let's say they're on stuff they're not on stuff. Doesn't even matter if they just want to be in shape, be lean, doesn't matter the size they are. Yeah, I mean I follow I call it the 8020 rule. It's not even really 8020. I mean all of my meals throughout the day are kind of pre-planned. So, you know, hop up in the morning for breakfast. You know, people aren't going to eat what I eat, but I eat three chicken breasts for breakfast. I eat four four cups of rice. That's my first meal. Second meal is literally about 100 grams of carbs in the Rice Krispies cereal, plain and not one sugar. And I do two scoops protein. Mix it water. Eat that [\h__\h] It's fire. Yeah. Third meal before the gym, three more chicken breasts, four cups of rice. Holy [\h__\h] you know, post-workout, one cup of rice, another protein shake, and then usually I'll either go home and cook like a home-cooked awesome meal, though, like we're talking spaghetti, bunch of beef, whatever I want, something that tastes pretty good. Or, like I said, once a day I'll go out to eat. I might want to go have a burger. I'm going downtown. I'm going to do two triple cheeseburgers wherever I want. And that's that's what I go off of. And I stay pretty damn lean because it keeps your metabolism boosted. You're going to stay nice and tight, but you can still enjoy your life. And like I said, you don't have to carry a scale everywhere, but you can just, you know, and let's say you don't even want to do that with me. Like, let's say you're eating out every meal. Here's the simplest thing. Everywhere you go, don't put seed oils on your food. And don't do butter. You'll stay lean as hell. Order chicken breast and rice or sweet potatoes wherever you go. Try not to cut out the bread. And then just tell them everywhere you go, "Hey, don't do oil or butter on my food." You're going to take out like 600 calories out of every meal. You know what I mean? And the seed oils cause insulin resistance which creates diabetes which is going to make you fat and dementia. They got stud guys. Dementia any seed oil creates. Now I do a little bit of seed oil but it's only avocado oil. Okay. And it's chosen foods brand. They have it at Publix. It's in the glass jar that's green. All the other ones they tested weren't what they said. It was like like they said avocado oil is actually vegetable oil. It was rancid and had mold and [\h__\h] in it. Chosen Foods was the only clean one that was in what it said it was. So that's the only reason. Like I said, I'll put a little bit like on my rice. Yeah. Salt. So it tastes good. But that's all the residual fats I'm getting. And if you do, just follow that, bro. When you go out to eat, just make smart choices. You can stay lean. It's not that hard. Yeah. You know, listen, that's a good point. I want to take it to another level, though. Let's crank it up. You've done like legit uh antibiotics. You've done trend. Can you tell me what it it's like to to be on trend? Explain what it is and then what was your experience with it? I mean, I'm a pretty cool, calm, collected, chill dude. Always been super chill. Yeah. And just like they say, turns you into a whole different person really. You know what I mean? It, you know, whatever's there, it amplifies it. So me, like I'm really cool, calm, and collected, but the flip side of that for me is lots of anxiety and irritability. Not like anger. You know, a lot of people get angry and they hurt people. For me, it was just cuz I'm so chill. The when I'm not chill, it's like anxious and irritable. So, dude, when I if I was taking Tren Yeah. I'm just constantly irritable. Everything pisses me off. But not like an angry pissed off, just an irritable. Just like this shit's annoying. I want to get the [\h__\h] out of here. You know, I'm not staying around this stuff. Let's get out of here, you know? Did you do anything like super crazy when you were on trend? Like, did it cause you to make any like real bad decisions? Uh yeah, probably a few. We won't get into those. I mean, nothing too crazy, but yeah, let's see. Think of one. Um I mean, I mean, just like everybody said, it definitely makes you yell a lot more. You know what I mean? You'll definitely yell at people, you'll lose your you're much more short-tempered. And that's what I mean by the irritability instead of like, you know, if you said something offensive to me. Normally, I'm like, "Okay, cool. I know who I am, my identity. I don't give two shits. Awesome." you know, but then you're on trend and someone says, "Hey, bro, you know, you look [\h__\h] skinny today or something." Yeah. You know, and I'll be like, "What?" You know, "Huh?" And you you just get you just snap super quick. It it literally just cuts off a part of your lobe of your brain that just it's all rationale just goes out the window. That's the easiest way to put it. Your rationale is gone, bro. Like you said, for me, I mean, I think I've been in one fight my whole life. Yeah. And that was a fight that it was literally dude had a knife trying to legit hurt me. Okay. you know, like and I was defenseless. I mean, I got scars on my hand, proved I got cut a few times, right? You know, got the knife away from him, beat his ass. But the point is, like, you know, I don't I don't fight. And you're on that stuff, people start disrespecting you out in public, yelling at your girl, whatever it is. Dude, you're ready in.3 seconds to go over there and just hammer someone out. You know what I mean? So, it's it's not a good drug. I would say to everybody out there, don't touch this. Don't don't it's 10 times stronger than testosterone. So, like you said, if you're taking testosterone, why would you need Tren? You know what I mean? I mean, I get it. I get it. If we want to go to that, if we want to go to that crazy spectrum, yeah, it's going to make you freaking shredded. You're going to get faster results than anyone else. I You're going to notice the difference day to day. You start taking Yeah. you're going to look up and go, "Damn, my abs are getting more apparent every day, dude. Veins get more vascular, but at what cost?" Like you said, cholesterol is getting crazy high. Blood pressure's through the roof. You're yelling at your girl. I mean, you know, it's just not good stuff. It's not worth people. Yeah, there's there's plenty of other anabolic drugs that can get almost the same results without the negative side effects. You know, that make you saying that that it make it and it doesn't take a high dose either. I mean, I know some of these bodybuilders, you know, that I've even coached and and other coaches coach and they're doing 1,000 milligrams of trend before a show. And I'm like, dude, if you put me on 1,000 milligrams of tren, yeah, I'd probably be having sex and be pissed off while I'm having sex and then when I get done just want to go jump off the building. Like, I just want to kill myself. Like, I don't know how someone would handle that [\h__\h] I mean, I could there's no way. I mean, I've just done like 100 or 200 milligrams before and 3 4 weeks in you're like, "This ain't right. I don't feel right. I just don't feel right. I don't feel like myself. I'm just irritable and mad and I I'll get in bed at night and I'm thinking about all these people that I just want to hurt. I'm like, this is not good. Use a little demon. That sound like Yeah, it is. It's Dude, that's a good nickname for it right there. It's definitely devil's syrup right there. You know, like I that that explains some of the behavior I' I've seen. Oh, you I'm sure you've run across some people that are probably on it and like, "Yep, that's the trend juice right there." Yeah, that's the devil's juice. That's why he's acting like that. That's Satan syrup he's injecting over there. That's that Satan syrup. You know, that makes a lot of sense, man. Um, what would somebody do if they wanted to do something like a peptide maybe that that would have similar effects but not the same side effects? Is it one te peptite they could take or would they have some sort of stack or I mean yeah I always recommend the stacks just like I was even saying with anabolics like thousand milligrams of test is stupid. Why not do two or three of give me I want let's say we want similar effects of trend like physically you want to look like you're on trend but you don't want to have you don't want to hurt people. I don't want to hurt I don't want to hurt nobody. Your girl's going to go oh hey babe. Yeah. Yeah. You're home from work or whatever. Yeah. Just just like normal. Feeling good. Go out to dinner. You're hanging with the friends. No one know one knows any different. Yeah. Yeah. Don't want to don't want don't want to show I mean probably based on that with the research the science things I've done personally uh I would have to say my favorite stack probably like I said testosterone is your base always TRT that's going to help you with your you know mental clarity libido sex drive just normal dayto-day. Um Masteron is a really good one. Master that's obviously a street name. Most people aren't going to know any of the chemical names, but yeah, Masonron is a, you know, they developed it for like breast cancer and things like that, but the beauty of that is remember I told you about anastriol, armidex, how it damages cortical bone. You know, it does lower your estrogen, but it's got a lot of negative side effects. For me personally, what I know, I'd rather take a little bit of master because it's a hardener drug. It tightens you up. Okay? So, it's going to lean you out a lot. You can take Masteron and it almost takes a place of your natural. It'll keep your estrogen levels down and in check. So now you're getting, you know, two birds in one stone. It's like, okay, well now I'm not having to take an asterisol, which has got more negative side effects on my cholesterol and things like that. I mean, Master has some on the cholesterol, but it's like I'm getting muscle building and I'm getting leaner off of it. So yeah, like testosterone, Master, a lot of people like Primoblin. I'm not a fan of it. What is that? Um, it was Arnold's favorite drug. Arnold's favorite drug back in the day. He did testosterone, dbol, and Primo. That's what he cycled for all his I don't know. So Dianabal is like a an oral anabolic steroid. Okay. It's pretty strong. So there's an anabolic side of steroids and an androgenic. So anabolic is like how much muscle mass it puts on. Androgenic is almost like the side effects of it. Okay. Um so like debball is a really big anabolic, but it's also a really big androgenic. So it'll it'll jack up your estrogen levels, make your nipples tender and swollen. You know, you get a lot of side effects from it. So it's one of those drugs that if you're going to do like debol, it's it's a shortlived thing. Two to four weeks, you got to get off that stuff, right? I mean, it's like that. You don't have to, but if you're smart, you don't want if you want to if you don't want to have a lot of the negative side effects, you can put on it makes you retain a lot of water weight, too. So it's going to really fill you out. See, I mean, I've seen guys taking 50 milligrams of dbol for 8 weeks and they'll put on 25 pounds. You know what I mean? Really, like I said, some of it's water, some of it's muscle, some of it's fat. But it's it's a pretty strong steroid. Yeah. My favorite, like I said, doing back that's something that's just going to keep me nice tight. I thought I thought we were going to stay away from alabolics and and do just peptides because they were safer. They are. You think Debo is a peptide? No. No. Debo is an anabolic. You were just asking me. You were asking me about the stack if you wanted to do something similar to trend but less health, you know, more healthy in the anabolic world. Yeah, that's so Debo's more healthy than trend is what you're saying. Yes. In a different way. Okay. You know, but what I'm saying is like you kind of more asked me like if I wasn't doing trim, but I wanted to do a stack to put on max, you know, max effects, but it still be anabolics. Yeah, it's going to be the testosterone, the master. Um, and then I would do echupo or EQ. So EQ, how it works, it's going to cause your bone marrow produce more red blood cells. So kind of like you know how cyclists inject EPO. Yeah. And then they can they got a lot more red blood cells so they have more oxygenation so they can cycle a lot further, a lot harder, a lot stronger. EQ is the bodybuilding world of that. Really like blood doping. Exactly. It's like blood doping but it's indirect. So you take EQ and your bone marrow is going to start producing more red blood cells. Now number one that's dangerous because if your hematocrit and your hemoglobin get too high you know it can cause high blood pressure, heart attack, strokes. But flip side anabolically sick massive pumps because you think you got more blood and more oxygen to your tissues like fivefold. So it's it's one of my favorite drugs again if used properly. Okay? You know what I mean? um you could use that properly. Again, I'm not condoning anyone out there to take any of this stuff. This is not medical. This is none of this is medical advice. Two guys about um but yeah, so you know, testosterone, Masteron, EQ. Um that just that right there would be a pretty killer stack if someone took that um as far as putting on a lot of muscle. Yeah. not gaining a lot of water and you're going to stay true to how you look but put on a nice amount of muscle tissue with negative side effects in my opinion. Okay. Is there so so is there a way you could do it with with just peptides? 100%. Well, what peptides would you take to to accomplish it? So if I wanted to kind of get as close as I could to that, like I said, I'd throw Tessa Morlin in Tessa Morlin, the IGF-1 LR3 because you're going to split the muscle tissue and double in size, do the fall statatin because then it's not, you know, it's a myioatin or a myioatin inhibitor, which that means myo means muscle, statin obviously means like stagnant. So it's going to create just that constant muscle growth. Yeah. So it's going to pretty much stop your body from limiting how much muscle you can put on. Okay. So yeah, you put folstatin, tessimore, and IGF together. Just those three right there. Crazy stack really. And if you really want to get wild, add in some samorin. So samorin is a growth hormone secret, but it also increases your appetite and you're going to want to eat more. And then if you want to throw in one more, you could do the CJC-1295 and if blend, which I've done all these together at once, but again, you have to take them at different times of the day. And I will tell you, it's going to make you tired. You're going to want to take naps. No, really. You're not working a 9 to5 taking these peptides. I'll tell you. You'll be s you'll be sitting in the chair going you done. Is that effective? All peptides are just all All these are all these that I'm mentioning other than like the folstatin are like growth hormone secrets. So they're going to secrete your growth hormone. Growth hormone makes you tired. Oh, even tesmoral. Yep. Oh, wow. Yep. So, so like for me, um, and again, not medical advice, but I'll tell you like how I would take mine. Yeah. I would get up in the morning and take my samorland first thing because that's going to increase my appetite all day. It's going to make me hungry, so I want to eat more food to bulk. Uh around lunch, you know, I'm probably going to hit my fistatin as my second one. Um before the gym, I'm going to hit my Tessa Morlin cuz that's what gives you sick pumps in the gym. Before the gym, before the gym and then right after the gym, I'm going to hit my IGF-1 cuz you're going to go eat a big meal. That's going to help you. So IGF-1 I didn't mention earlier it has doesn't make you tired if you're taking it before the gym right or am I tripping it still it still has that component of growth hormone. So like if you just sit down and get relaxed you're going to get tired but no I mean you know for me I notice it on the drive to the gym I'll get a little tired and feel nice relaxed once you get going you're fine. You're not okay. Okay. So it's not like unis like Yeah. It's not like a sleep drug. Yeah. But it's just because you when you release growth hormone it makes you relax. Um, and then yeah, the IGF-1 is going to be after the gym because it affects blood sugar. So, you're going to eat, it's going to lower your blood sugar. Boom. insulin effects growth hormone. You're shuttling your food in right after the gym. Maximum amount of muscle growth because you're feeding the broken down muscle tissue. That's intense. And what is that is would that be the stack with the least amount of side effects? Correct. And then the last one before bed, do the CJC-1295 Morland. To me, that's kind of just the overall big boy of anti-aging, sleep, recovery. You take that one before bed. You'll sleep good, recover good. Um, it's a blend. So, it's two different peptides. So, yeah. So, that's that's a pretty that's a pretty hefty stack right there. Just that alone going to make Now, now let's say and it's legal. So, the anabolics aren't legal. Yeah. I mean, I mean, peptides are kind of in that realm of what's called a neutrautical, you know what I mean? So, that's that's I don't know what that meant. It's almost like a doctor recommended supplement, per se, you know. So, like you can order your black market peptides online and they're all for research use only. They say not for human consumption. Was back in the day. Exactly. But now too, because the compoundingies, the FDA outlawed the compoundingies to make them and get actual peptides as a true prescription. Now, not all of them. You can still get some, especially in Florida, there's more lax. I think you can still get IGF. Yeah. You can get BPC by itself from some of the compoundingies. Let's say all some of the other ones I mentioned that you may not can get. Um, some clinics are still able to sell those or like you said, you can sell them as a physician use only. Yeah. Peptide where it's it's kind of a, you know, a gray I don't say a gray area. It's just not a full prescription. Yeah. You know, cuz it's not coming from the compounding pharmacy, but everything's still put together in the US and you sell it almost like a doctor recommended supplement is kind of how it's worded cuz you got to play on words. You got to, you know, you got to follow the rules. You got to color inside the lines if you're a, you know, if you're these clinics. Yeah. Because you don't want to get in trouble. But yeah. Yeah. So, there's kind of two different realms right now. And and it's it's all it's all fluid. They keep changing it. Okay. Okay. When we get back, we're going to take a break. We're going to do the the market update. Uh we're going to bring my boy Young Candlestick to talk about the market and some of this money making we doing. But when we get back, I want to talk about the difference between peptides and SARMs and some of these other stuff. Um that's like a cliffhanger for these guys. We're going to get back. Let's get the market update going. All right. Yo, Young Candle Stick. What up, homie? What's up, Brandon? What's up, Dr. Rock? Good to see you. What's going on? Well, much like none of this is medical advice. None of this is financial advice. break down a lot of different stocks, a lot of different sectors, and I'll be up and out of here because I want to get back to this conversation. Pretty interesting today, huh? Oh, yeah, definitely. So, when we're looking at the market, when we look at the fear and greed index, this is a measure of sentiment. So, right now, the sentiment in the market is greed. Investors are kind of driving up the market. It's kind of been on this slow grind up ever since early April. And so right now the market's just going through its summer doldrums, but because the greed is driving the market, there could be a little bit of a sell-off even right now. The futures markets, because the markets trade around like, you know, in the after hours, the futures markets are down about 1%. It took a [\h__\h] dump. The ENQ took a dump, right? Oh yeah, definitely. So basically, expect stocks to open up down tomorrow. I do expect support to potentially hold. So spy that's 595. You know on an oversold dip I do think that it does recover and we can see all-time highs within the next few weeks or months. But just monitor it day by day. The SPY is kind of a tough read. The NASDAQ doing just fine. Uh if we take a look at Apple, Apple is um kind of weak. I do have some bearish positions on Apple. So I do expect further downside on Apple. Maybe not like a crash, but sideways to slightly lower prices is my forecast for Apple, targeting that $180 per share. We talked about Tesla last time I was on the podcast. I said you can wait for a bounce to short it at 330. That's the exact what you said. Go run go run back to tape at 3:30. Come check it out. And basically Tesla, it's selling off. So we'll see what happens to Tesla. I do think that it maybe could test 280 or lower if this selloff continues. If Tesla gets back above 330, that would be bullish. Okay, Microsoft [\h__\h] Elon, he he waved the white flag. He like he's cool with Trump now. He w Instagram post, right? Yeah. He like Elon Mus JCole of politics. Like he start a battle and then and then quit. Just like JCole, man. He realized the ramifications of his Yeah. Nah. Kiss the ring, [\h__\h] What's up? Well, let's keep going. Let's keep going. Oh, y'all have questions. Stock or investment questions for Young Candlestick, man. We'll read it on if it's a super chat. All right. Send some super chats. Microsoft still strong. We talked about that. Come on, Microsoft. Tell them tell them tell them tell them when we recommended Microsoft. What were you saying buy Microsoft? We just said, "Hey, I'm buying a lot of Microsoft down here. It's kind of scary down at this 360 level. It's kind of scary. 360 380 that that was the exact bottom, but it was pretty close." And Microsoft up 35%. Come on. We were DMing each other on Instagram. We're like, I like Microsoft. I like Microsoft. Microsoft. Yeah. And we said it on the pod, too, man. All you got to do is listen to us and do what we do. You'll make money. Definitely. Definitely. And you know, if you're interested in getting involved in something like quantum computing, I do like Google longer term. Short term though, I think Google probably goes sideways. It probably trades in a range of 160 to 180 for a few weeks or months. But if Google can break above 180, that would be bullish in the longer term. So that's if we take a look at IWM, it's a leading market indicator because this is where most of the stocks live. IWM breaking down today, being a little bit more bearish. So that could be causing a bit of this chop where some sectors are strong, some sectors are weak. There's no like clear direction. Semiconductors were strong today. My favorite semiconductors are Nvidia and AVgo for the long term. So Nvidia pretty close to all-time highs. It's not there yet. It is selling off in the after hours, but I do like Nvidia. I like AVGO Broadcom. Nancy Pelosi is long on that. So Nancy's [\h__\h] with it. Yep. NY's [\h__\h] If NY's [\h__\h] with it, then I'm [\h__\h] with it. You know what I'm saying? She's my favorite traitor. Seriously, she go. I know, right? She She We need to study whatever she's doing. No, we know exactly what she's doing. All right, let's go. Let's go. I I don't want to get I don't want to get I don't want to say it cuz I want to get my house bombed, you know. Dr. Russ is like, "What did you do?" Yeah. Nah, man. We don't win no beef. Uh, what are you talking about? Bitcoin. Bitcoin starting to reject its all-time highs. My forecast is probably sideways to slightly lower, but if it became oversold enough down to like 90K, I do think that that can be a longer term dip by. Again, that's not advice. That's just where I'm kind of looking at Bitcoin. I like to trade IBIT shares and options to trade Bitcoin. Okay, we've been talking about silver for a while. Silver big breakout. Yeah, you you've been talking about silver. You could you couldn't shut the [\h__\h] up about silver for months, right? And now look at you. This is why this is why you was sounding an alarm. I know it didn't really go anywhere for weeks and I was just like just sitting on my silver calls just waiting for the price and then it eventually broke out. I do expect higher prices over the coming months and years on silver, but for now, you know, the the next best dip by for me on silver is SLV31. Okay, so set some price there. I like that price for longer term. Gold, my forecast for the remainder of 2025 is neutral to bullish basically meaning if gold gets oversold, I think it's a dip by I don't think it's going to break out really well, but could do something. Is it Is that It's like It's close to alltime highs right now. It is. It is. But I I'm I don't think that there's going to be a really big breakout just yet. It is. I bought a bunch of gold futures. Remember I told you I bought some gold futures contracts and uh those shit's printed, man. That's not the only thing that printed. Didn't you make 20 grand today trading futures? Oh, let me Well, I might as well show them. Can you show them my Just show them show them my iPad, you know. Yeah. You know, in victory trades, we trade every day. Yep. You can trade with me and Greg. We we trade live. And basically what what you're looking at is I trade with I don't trade with my own money. I trade futures with funded accounts and I have 20 funded accounts. I trade with them all simultaneously. I have a trade copy. Right. So, and I made $1,000 on each account. So, this was this was a 20 grand day, man. Trading futures this morning. You know, not bad. Like an hour. If you want to trade with us, if you want to trade with Greg and I in the morning because I was calling out my trades. Oh, yeah. You're like, I got the buy orders right here. 21,000. Boom. Just join. We teach you how to do it. We teach you how to get funded accounts. Um, and you can trade with us. So, you can because you got to pass the evaluation to get your account funded. Uh, but we've helped a lot of Victory Unit members do it. So, hit up our Discord, go in there, talk to Greg Young Candlestick, say, "Yo, I want to join Victory Unit." and he'll walk you through it. You know, you can trade with us. Just tell me you want to join Victory Trades. Tell me a little bit about yourself. I'll leave you a voice note and then we'll get you started. Super. We're crushing it actually. Really like I'm trying to be super humble. Like we had an iron condor today. We got some people also get trade alerts, right? So, not not just trading futures in the morning. That's what we do in the morning, but throughout the day, Victory Trades members get uh Greg's trade alerts and options plays, man. So, go ahead, tell them, man. Tell them some of this [\h__\h] Yeah. No, definitely. So like each and every day I basically do an alert. Usually it's once a day. Sometimes it's twice a day. Sometimes there's no alert for the day. But the biggest edge that I have is with S&P trading. And so basically this is just SPY or ES. It's the S&P 500. But what's cool about it is it's cash settled. Doesn't use day trades. And what's nice about is you can just enter the trade and your risk is built in and your max profit is built in. And so for some reason it's taking a while to load up. Something's goofy going on with the internet's been acting funny today. It's a matrix attack. I know, right? The matrix is attacking us today. Matrix. Oh, there we go. Basically, we traded an iron condor today where if it's above this level and beneath this level, make plus $200. If it starts to go outside the range or close outside that range, minus 300. So why would I risk $300 to make $200? because there's a higher probability of of profit that I'm going to make that $200. So, this basically just represents We do these like pretty much every day, every other day. Pretty much, man. Yeah, we had we had And you've been crushing it with those calls, man. I mean, you can see some of the stats here. I mean, this is the stats for May, you know, 27 out of 29, 27 for 29 on the trades for June. We have some really, really good trades. Check it out. Stats speak for themselves. And they know what it is, man. Either they gonna listen or they not, man. What What other stocks you got? I got some qu You know what? I got some questions about some stocks. But you got a super chat, Greg. Let's check it out. All right. Yo, while while you looking at those, I'mma urinate. All right. You got you got you got you got this. All right. Marquez is asking about thoughts on TTWO and Bros. So TTWO, that's Take 2 Interactive. This is the GTA stock. So everybody's wondering when's GTA going to be coming out. So far, what I'm looking at on this chart, it's a nice uptrend. The graph goes from the bottom left to the top right. Generally, you want to be investing or buying or swing trading stocks that are in uptrends because investors are committing capital to the stock. And when a stock makes all-time highs, every single investor that bought it before it made all-time highs is rewarded. So trends tend to continue until unless acted upon by another force. So this looks bullish. Shortterm, we're up a few days in a row. So that just means we're extended. That means that buyers may have used up their buying power and prices could maybe sell a little bit, especially since the overall S&P 500 is dropping. TTWO is probably going to be opening up red as well. So TTWO, it probably stays within a range of 220 to 240 for a while, but if it can break above and hold above 240, then we can see new all-time highs. You can always use the option chain to help you get an idea of how much a stock can move within a week. So right over here on the top right corner of the screen, the expected move is plus or minus $2.91. Let's just call it $3. That means between now and the end of the day tomorrow, TTWO is not likely going to go more than $3 higher or $3 lower. So that' be like what? 237 to 231. Of course, it can move more than that, but twothirds of the time it's going to move within that expected move. So that's my quick take on TTWO. I don't see any good like trade setups or buy setups. Of course, you can just buy all-time highs. That's fine. Um, but just set some price alerts. Let it digest. Let it consolidate for a bit. Let's check out Dutch Bros. Dutch Brothers, the competitor of Starbucks. So, Dutch Bros. It'll load up. Something's going on. The Matrix is attacking you guys. Something's going on. They don't want y'all to win. I know, right? All right, Dutch Brothers. Kind of a messy chart. I'm looking first firstly at this like uptrend right here. So you can see this this channel connect your low points. We got our high points right here. So I have to expect that this channel will hold until and unless it breaks. It could break down underneath this 6960 level. Okay. But other than that, I don't see any like buy setups or good long setups. Maybe there's a tiny little buy setup on the trend line break. Onbalance volume just looks neutral. Basically saying it's probably just going to chop around in a range. volume is pretty low, which tells us, hey, not a lot of investors are watching this. It's not a a thickly traded stock. Not a lot of people are really interested in Dutch Brothers. So, once you start to see volume come in, that's where you can start to get involved with Dutch Brothers. Those are my quick takes. Thanks for the super chat, Marquez. All right. Yo, what I wanted to ask you about was um I Birkshar Hathaway. Yeah, let's check it out because it's kind of nearing that support, right? What? It's nearing a support level. Yeah, this is exactly where I think where I would buy. Like, you know, but I, you know, I usually run my trades past you, but it looks exactly where I would buy. So, based off candlestick structure, this is called a bullish piercing pattern. So, basically, yesterday kind of having a bearish day. Today we gap down and then rip up, close near the high. That in and of itself, just off candlestick structure is a buy. You'd buy over 490. Stop loss goes underneath today's low, which would be 484. It looks okay. I I I think there are some better setups, especially since the market's gapping down tomorrow. You might want to wait for some further selling. Might want to wait a little bit. Just a little bit. It is it is one of those things where set some price alerts if it breaks above 490 because look it's going to be gapping down tomorrow. So if it gaps down tomorrow and then breaks the resistance it's a better resistance break. So set some price alerts at 490. Um it's not so much a trading stock. It's more of a stock you dollar cost average into or just buy and hold. All right. All right. All right. Crowd Strike. Oh we made some good money off of Crowd Strike thanks to you Brandon. I called out the high base. Yep. Brandon called out this setup. So, basically, we had an impulse wave up and then we had an impulse wave up and then we vibrated right here. Yeah, we did. Price vibrate, man. The vibes. I felt the I felt the vibes, man. Yeah. Yeah. We we were gooning with Crowd Strike and basically we bought we bought this breakout right over 440. Use the bathroom in the front. That's what it is. And I noted that hey on the on one of the podcasts, hey, you can buy a dip at 440. That happened to be the exact low. Crowd Strike is knocking on the door of those all-time highs. It is going to be gapping down with the market tomorrow. But if Crowd Strike can hold hourly or four hours or daily above 480, you can probably see more all-time highs. I'm bullish long term. It just comes down to pick your prices that you want to enter at. All right. All right. How long we have? Oh, we whatever, man. Five minutes. Couple minutes. You got to bounce. Yeah. No, I was going to pee real quick. Huh? I was going to go to the bathroom, too. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go to the one in the front. All right. Sorry about that. Ask Yara. I was um talking earlier about gold and silver. It's important to remember that the dollar is inverse to gold and silver. So, the dollar is breaking down right now. Your purchasing power, if you're a United States citizen, is losing value. Cash in the bank is losing value. You've got to start making some money moves, whether it be in a business, stocks, real estate, anything that can hold its value or appreciate in value because right now the dollar is dropping and that's putting upwards pressure on the metals, gold and silver. So that's just kind of how those intermarkets are correlated. One last thing that I want to leave you guys with is uranium. URA. So this is the uranium ETF. This is starting to break out on the monthly time frame, too. So uranium could have multiple months of upside. Onbalance volume is confirming it. That just accumulates the up volume and the down volume. Basically saying buyers are committing to uranium right now. So as long as URRA can hold above 34, I think it can see 60 70 80 in the next few years. We need to crack nuclear energy if we're going to keep spamming chat GPT all day, right? Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I hit that [\h__\h] up all day. I know, right? That's all I have. I use I use this [\h__\h] instead of a calculator. I know. I just I just open up the GBD chat and and then just Yo, man, what's this times this? We're using it for meditation practices in victory training. Yo, that was crazy, man. That was crazy. It was before Victory, he did a little med he he he added what was the prompt you said? Oh, I was like, give me a quick one minute meditation guide to, you know, boost trading performance and she did a good job. Yo, yo, she did a real a real good job, man. I liked it. All right, man. Yo, listen. You know, listen, guys. If if you want to learn out more about stocks, if you want to get Greg's trade alerts, and if you want to trade with us every morning with the market open, you see man, today I mean today I made seriously made 20 grand 20 grand trading this morning, bro. That's just playing a video game. You crushed it. It was pretty intense, bro. Y'all want to learn more about that as well. What you say? I love that. We teach the strategy that you use. We got a nice PDF and you can ask us questions live as well. Yeah. Yeah. And I and I call out where this where this where I got my buy orders. You know what it is? You know. Yeah. If you want to do that, join uh go to our Discord. Hit up uh Greg Young Candlestick in there. Say you want to join Victory Char and he'll point you in the right direction. All right. I got you. All right. Thanks for having me on. Lot All right, peace. All right, I think we got some super chats before Dr. We get back to the homie Dr. Russ. Oh, all right. Nemo, can you can you do it? Yes, of course. I got you. All right. Okay. BC, as a trader, uh, I got so much free time. What to do as a trader? You have so much free time. What is it? I don't know if I understand that question. And like, oh, because he just trades. What should he do? Yeah. Yo, find another way to make money, man. Like, the people I know who make the most money trading, none of them only trade. And I think there's a psychological part to that because there's less um uh fear and uh there's less fear and so it's not as important if that makes sense, you know, um because they're making money off other [\h__\h] in other ways, right? So they can be more logical, right? Because I even today man if I it would be too much stress if my you know my son's food and education depended on my trade and performance right so it's like it's it's extra money even though it's a good amount of money today it's been a good amount of money like the last few months it's not the money I'm living off of right so find another way to make some money you know and it ironically it'll make you a better trader because you'll be able to control your emotions better. What else we got? All right, let's implement next one. Yo, Nema Lonard is asking, "Bro, you got to hurry up with the thought repellent. Thoughts are coming at me stronger every day." They know when they know when you got your it figured it out. Okay. All right, man. Yep. Yep. That's real [\h__\h] Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, that's real [\h__\h] man. Shout out to you. Thanks for the thanks for the uh for the the contribution that I got you. And then we got another one. Okay. Who this? Thank you, Nema. You got it. We have Erin. Hi, doctor. Oh, this is for our guest. This for this for you, man. Right. I'm 6'3, 290 lbs at 27% body fat. DEXA with 210 lbs lean mass cutting to 240 at 12%. Any advice on reducing loose skin as I lose weight%. So as I was talking about earlier in my opinion the Tessa Morland does that best really. I mean obviously as you lose weight your body your body's natural collagen will tighten up. So when I did bodybuilding shows, I did every little 1% I could to just make sure the skin was tight as I lost the body fat like he's talking about. So I mean, you know, your omegas, your fish oils, things like that, those definitely help. Um, you know, and what I would do the last four weeks of for a show, which in his case, if he's wanting to get rid of some of the loose skin, kind of follow something similar, you know, go to more of a fish diet and rice. Fish fish helps. Yeah. Cuz you got to think if you're if you're eating red meat and chicken, mainly red meat and stuff like that. It's heavier on the body. It's got more fat content. You're going to put more of a layer on the skin. You're not going to look as tight. So like bodybuilders four weeks out in the show, most of them we switch straight to literally rice and fish, bro. Really? I never heard that. And that's what I do. And it works for me. I mean, I was more peeled than I'd ever been. And I throw my fish oils in, my omegas, and that helps tighten the skin up. And then if you throw that Tessa Morland, it really really does the trick. You know, it's funny when there I there was a time where I was like a fitness model. I did modeling. I was with a big agency in New York. And one summer, man, I don't remember exactly why I did this, but I ate the only protein was fish. I ate fish and like green vegetable, right? Fish and veggies. You shredded before I I was keto, right? It was just I need I needed to be as lean as possible, right, for the whole summer. And yo, I not only was I super lean, my skin was super clear. Like I look just fish and green. You got to think you don't if you get naturally caught fish out of the sea and not the farm race [\h__\h] Like you said, it's not like chicken, dude. Every all of our chicken, most our meat, it's riddled with heavy metals, toxins, hormones. So, yeah, to me, fish is that alternative. Like you said, skin's going to be super clear, skin thinner and tighter. You're going to look younger. Um, so yeah, man, that's that's huge. I never I didn't So, so theoretically, that would help with like a lot, not just loose skin. Oh, it would help with a ton of stuff. energy levels, anti-aging is like you said, I would do a mix between like cod and salmon. Those are my top two. Yeah. And make sure it's wild caught. Uh don't get any of this farm cuz the farm race stuff, I mean, you got to think they're they're throwing they're throwing feed in the water. It's dirty, you know, they don't they don't put on the muscle they should. There's a lot of toxins and and things like that in the fish because they're being raised on a farm versus naturally. They're not eating natural stuff, you know, either. So it it almost puts you back in that loop of kind of like chicken. Well, what are they feeding the chicken? Chicken feed and all this [\h__\h] Inject them with antibiotics and and then you know when they kill them, they're stressed out and they're releasing all that cortisol into the bloodstream and then you're eating all you're eating all that. So cortisol. Exactly. So the wild caught stuff is the best. All right. All right. Okay. Let's switch gears. A lot of times people hit me up and they'll say they want to learn how to they'll ask me, "How do I burn fat and build muscle?" at the same time. At the same time and I usually tell them how you might want to pick one and you know and alternate right uh there's very few people in the world that can really do that. It's very difficult especially if you're if you're natural. Yeah. Is there a way to do that with the peptides? Yeah. Oh yeah. I think you can definitely enhance that. Oh this this sound like holy grail. What is the what would if you know if you're really wanting to if you want to body fat and put muscle at the same time I mean the best way to really kind of like a BMI but of your of your muscle tissue. Yeah. So it's like okay based on your body weight, your activity level, if you're just whatever you're doing for your job, let's say you're just working McDonald's and you're walking around McDonald's all day, you need to calculate burnout day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Your your basil metabolic rate. Yeah. A day, right? So you know you got to at least eat 2,300 to maintain, right? And if you're natural, you got to eat a little more or you're still going to probably lose muscle if you're not training. You know what I mean? So then yeah. So then we would take those calculations. We would throw in obviously the peptide stack and then we'd up that say what peptide stack? Tell me just start. So if we want to put the muscle on staining probably that one I said earlier tessamorland, the IGF-1. Okay. Um and the followatin just those three. And then if you really want to get crazy like I said throw in the CJC. What's CJC? And the Simorland. Oh okay. Yeah. Yeah. This Yeah, those for the for the appetite. as well. Basically, I mean, if I don't think you're going to need the ozyic in this case. Okay. Um because if you're trying to put the muscle on, in my opinion, um the oyic is going to suppress the appetite a little too much. It's going to be hard to eat. Got it. Got it. But like you said, on other peptides, you're not going to overeat because if we're training, we got our basil metabolic rate measured out. You're kind of doing what you do, measuring your [\h__\h] out. Yeah. You're going to be so on point that you're gonna be it's it's gonna be crazy. you're on point with your diet, right? But what I say is I increase things like 10 to 20%. So going to be measure the results. So morning watching how your weight fluctuates um things of that nature. But yeah, so we get that measure 20% on your total calories two weeks. See where your weight is. Do a you know caliber test and check your body fat on your body. see if that's changing and then you just make adjustments from there. But I would say yeah, almost increasing it in 10 to 20% until you get to that threshold now starting to not look as lean and then you get five 10% how you're going to find that sweet spot to continue to put muscle on burn body and stay in the shape you want to be in um and continue to pack on muscle now. Okay, give me give me the stack again. Would it be Tessa Morland? Tessa Morland the IGF-1. IGF-1 kiss or excuse me uh falostatin then that's a myioatin right? Yeah, that's the myostatin inhibitor. Um, Yep. So, okay, let's talk let's talk about because you were talking to me about that. You you you showed me the study. Yeah, if you want to put the study up for everybody, first of all, a myostatin, what does it do? So, basically, well, let's see. Let's look at the thing here. So, so this is the study. Yeah, throw this right here. I'm reading off of it too a little bit. um saying that if you two things that the folatin peptide it's inhibitor and then how does that go because this is done on obese mice fat ass mice and non-human primates. Yeah. Like you've got your you got your active and a and then like your those are those are the two things that we don't want to get scientifically. Yeah. We don't have to read it. They can read. They basically the myostatin is what blocks you from building muscle. So folatin peptide is a myostatin inhibitor. So it inhibits you or it it basically doesn't allow the body to make the myostatin. So then you just you eating any protein. It's just constantly building muscle. That's where these genetic freak guys come in. Yeah. They literally their body just doesn't naturally their body doesn't produce hardly any myostatin. So they just have uncontrolled growth. They can go in the gym and train and almost not eat and they still put on muscle. And you're like, "How the hell is this guy putting on 10 pounds of muscle in 3 months and I'm eating more than he does? I'm training harder than he is and I'm on anabolics and he's still growing faster." Myostatin. Wow. It's not producing any myioatin and active A. So again, it's just a cyclic system in the body. And so the followatin peptide, that's what it does. It blocks those. So then you can just sit there and just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. You're just you're just pumping out muscle all day long. It's just building muscle like on top of muscle. Cuz I remember that there was these cows that came off these cows that were on my inhibitor. Yeah. They throw them on those myatin inhibitors, bro, to beef them up. They put the trim pellets in their ears. And did they really put trim pellets in their ear? Yeah, that's what they do with the with cattle. Yeah. You put trim pellets in their ears from the uh farmers market. Dude, I'm from Alabama, bro. We used to do this [\h__\h] Oh, these [\h__\h] These cows weren't even working out. They weren't hitting the gym. They just started looking. Exactly. These are female cows. Mhm. All cows are But you know what I'm saying? These are females. I got you. I got you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And look at these [\h__\h] Yeah. They're beasts, bro. Is it? So this this Ber this they're probably they're probably get they're getting tren pellets in the ears and probably some sort of you know myostatin inhibitor that I don't really they edit they gene edited these these cows without myostatin. Exactly. So like you said, they sit there and eat a meal and they'll put on let's just trend just this is all says what they were. So basically someone with mile statin, someone with looks like J hard, but it's like bro, we me and you could same thing our whole life. We're not going to look like them still. So, we know they have a lot less myostatin. Wow. Wow. Yeah. These are not bulls. These are these are cows, right? Those are females. These are females. That's crazy. That that's crazy. All right. So So So now when a human takes one of these sarms that I'm not SARS that um the peptides like the follow statin. Yeah. Follow that it has similar effects or the same effect or what? Exactly. So again, they're obviously they did it on mice. I guess they're they're probably in the process of doing it on, you know, human trials and things like that, but again, I take this stuff and I tell you they said it was it was done on mice and non-human primates. Yeah, exactly. Monkeys. Exactly. Monkeys, things like that. They're probably not doing human trials, but again, obviously I'm I'm a human trial. You a human trial. I take it and it definitely is putting more density on me and I don't have to eat as much because I hate it. I'm almost 40 years old, dude. I did my bodybuilding world of eating seven, eight meals a day. I'll tell you. I mean, dude, right now, like I said, I told you what I eat in a day. I mean, that's a good day. That's happening though, maybe three times a week, to be honest with you. Most days, I'm eating three big meals. The chicken breast twice, and I'll probably do the two protein shakes. One of them might even not even be the Rice Krispies. So, you know, and I'm still packing on, you know, muscle. What's the name of that? What's the name of that um that that that that peptide that inhibits my? So, it's called Fostatin. Yep. Wow. Yep. So, it's like active A and myostatin. those and there's a whole big complex obviously biochemical system we could get into that does that but if they really want to know all that they can read the article fist statin okay so the stack would be I want to build muscle and burn fat at the same time tessamorlandatin uh IGF IGF-1 IGF-1 what else and then the CJC-1295 epomorlin and the samorin samor so again and I'll tell you what I do again not medical advice but this is what I do cuz again you want to the key that too is putting them at the right times of the day so you get maximum muscle growth, maximum fat loss, maximum anti-aging results. So, you know, this isn't, you know, I do these stacks not just to put muscle on, you know? I want to live [\h__\h] forever. That's the whole name of the game, right? I want to feel 25 when I'm 60, right? And I want to look that. Obviously, I can look young if I shave my whole beard off like you do, but I want to look a little more distinguished and have the salt and pepper and and look a little older because, you know, I still feel like I'm still young, but yeah. morning time samorland right when you get up that's what I do because it's going to increase the appetite so you're going to want to eat more food okay like I said before gym or at lunchtime we'll do the follow statin depends on what time of the day you train after work 6 7 p.m. some more. I take my lunch. Yep. Because you get crazy pumps. Some people were saying you you should take it and some people do it before bed. That's [\h__\h] You got Well, it is if you're doing all the other stacks. That's just a standalone. You know what I mean? And then IGA after you train. Okay. And again, we're not talking anti-aging here. We're really this more bodybuilding protocol. Okay. You know what I mean? Yeah. If if you want to take it medically, yeah, probably just test more than before bed, you know what I mean? Um, and then like I said, take it on empty stomach. Might be telling me they take it on. You want to takeides away from food because growth hormone and insulin are like antagonist. They go against each other. But again, building world, you take them together if you really want to grow. So like for instance, let's say I was taking insulin cuz I could take exogenous insulin and insulin is the most anabolic agent in the world. You know what I mean? You take insulin, it's shuttling whatever's in your body and glucose and food directly to the muscle tissue. So like for me, let's say I'm taking an insulin. If I'm doing insulin and growth hormone, well, I'm going to probably take my growth hormone, like you said, 20 30 minutes before I walk outdoor gym and I'm going to hit my insulin. If it's a short acting one, like right when I get to the gym, 10 minutes before I train, and then boom, they're just they're pumping together. You're getting massive pumps, shuttling everything to the tissues. You're going to grow big time. Again, don't recommend that cuz insulin is very dangerous. You take the wrong amount, you go into a coma and you're toast. But someone if they're diabetic, let's say someone is diabetic and they take it anyways. The way the doctors tell you to take it is just your blood sugar. You could definitely utilize it in a bodybuilding realm and take it at certain times that definitely maximize muscle growth and fat loss too. But getting off track after the gym. But but in indiscriminate anabolic, right? That's why that's the name. Oh, 100%. insulin is the most anabolic agent in the world because you immediately shuttle Yeah. food to the muscle tissue or fat storage depending on like I said when you're taking it. Yeah. And that's why like most people with type one diabetics that's why they're so skinny, right? They're typically pretty thin because they're not getting any anabolic from the muscle growth, but also they're not putting on much fat either. Exactly. Yeah. Um, so yeah, so after the gym, you can do the IGF-1 with your big meal because it does lower blood sugar because it's an, you know, IGF like an it works based off your insulin receptors and your growth hormone. Um, insulin like growth factor is really what it is if you know the name. Um, and then like I said before bed do the CJHC 1295 if Morland blend to me that's that overall anti-aging one's going to help with m fat loss, muscle building, the collagen production, anti-aging and biggest recovery and sleep. So, it's going to help you with the sleep. Um, now again, there's 1% of the population out there that they take CJC. It wires him the hell up. I've got my boy that takes it. I told him take it at night. He took night before bed. He's like, "Bro, I didn't sleep all night. I had to go back to the gym twice." CJC, right? The CJC25. But again, he was a rare case, but most people take it at night. They're fine because it can increase your heart rate for about 20, 30 minutes and then calm down. Wow. Cuz you get kind of that flush feeling and that's how you know it's hitting you though, too. Um, that sound like something you want to take before work. Yeah, exactly. So, you could would take the CJC in the morning and then, you know, if you want to eat more food at night. So, wow. But yeah, that's that's kind of how I do my stack if I'm doing all those to bulk up and lean out at the same time. So, with that stack, somebody they can potentially Oh, if their food and training is right and they've never done peptides, my boy did almost a similar one. Yeah. Yeah, he put on 15 lbs in about 8 weeks. 15 lbs in 8 weeks and he got leaner. So, we know, like I said, it was muscle. How long was he training? I I'd say his name, but I didn't obviously I didn't ask if I But how long was he training before that? Like, was he dude just like me? So, you add that in and he can fully all we just add one or two came back like a couple weeks doing all the other stuff. What else you got? And next thing you know, I'm like, "Look, let's just build you a full stack." Now he's on four or five of them at a time, and he put on 15 pounds like it was nothing. 15 pounds of muscle in how long? It's about 8 weeks. That's [\h__\h] crazy. And lost body fat. His abs were more visible, everything. His arms grew. Oh, he to him now. He comes to me. That's crazy. He did. He he buys a full like he never stopped. He's obsessed. He's like, "This shit's awesome. I feel younger, energy, more clarity." And then obviously the big benefits is he's putting muscle on at the same time. So you get he's getting all the worlds. That's what I'm saying. Like anabolic steroids, you're not getting anti-aging effects. Yeah. It's pro-aging. This shit's making you look older. You know what I mean? So it's like if you can put muscle on and reverse your aging or stop your aging even if there's some little side effects. What are the side effects like? I mean depending on which peptides for instance the CJC you get a little flush red face feeling heart rate goes up kind of like if you took nasin if you ever take nasin before you know it kind of gives you that or everybody's taking the pre-workout with the what is that [\h__\h] that makes you tingle? Uh beta alan. Yeah like a beta-alanine. It's like that but a lot more mild you know you just get a little tingle. So something like that. Um, the only other side effects on some of the other ones we didn't even talk about them like the milina tan that tans your skin and it gives you erections and it's for erectile dysfunction. It'll Oh, really? I too high of a dose. So, it gives you a Wait, you said it gives you a tan? Yeah, the milana tan. It's called MT-2. You literally inject it tan. I saying I hardly get out in the sun. I just take just a little bit of it like once twice a week. Yeah. Now again, I took a whole bottle once full, you know, and I had a pulled me inside and had my suit on. They were like they thought I was like from somewhere like that my ass and and you know wanted you know wanted my passport again. I'm like I'm like I'm American. I didn't look like it at all though, bro. Like I was so dark. It was crazy. And then you find out what it's like. Then you found out what it's like. Oh yeah, I got I got I definitely got screened. They're like cavity checkis too. I'm like oh [\h__\h] No, I don't have any on me guys. Yo, what with the muscle building stack? What kind of what kind of So you basically it's going to be different for each person. Yeah. And the beauty is like my go-to wanted to do all at once. And that's the beauty. If you wanted to get shredded up on that stack, we might tweak it a little bit. You could take that same stack and get shredded. If you calories like you did, let's say you did keto, you're like, "All right, I want to get shredded." do a keto diet that you gave them. Write a keto diet for somebody. Have them follow that [\h__\h] Be a little bit of a desicet. A lot of protein, you know, their their push-ups. Peel no time. You'll put some muscle. But like you said, not as much as like me where I'm going, "Hey, bro, I'm eating five or 600 grams of carbs a day." You're eating what, 30? Like 50 50. Yeah. You have to stay in ketosis. So you can't really go over like what, five or 10 per meal. I can go I can go I tested my when everybody's different. Like you got to test it. Some people eat out of ketosis if they eat five carbs. Some people like you, you might could eat 50 at once and you stay in ketosis cuz your body's so used to it. I've been at I've had like 10 net carbs in one day and I was still in keto on blood on a blood. But that's how you really know you're the ketogenic [\h__\h] king when you can eat 100 grams of carbs in a day and your blood sugar is basically not reading and you're still keto. You're still in keto. You're still ketogenic. You're like I worked out a lot. I remember that day I worked out a lot and it was all super low glycemic carbs, you know, like it was veggies and berries and yeah like like blueberries basically. If it was 100 grams of sugar Yeah. or banana, you probably would probably would act behave different. But still, you think a lot of people can't do that because their basil metabolic rate, nothing's really honed in because you're so consistent with what you do. That's why you're able to do that. Your body is so adaptable because it can adjust because it's used to the same thing. Funny, it wasn't like that year one. So like year one I tested my my ketones every morning, every night blood because I I was just trying to really dial it in. Yeah, you gota you gotta it's experiment, bro. You got to play with it. You got to watch your blood sugar. You got to know what foods spike your blood sugar, which ones don't. Like for instance, for me, some people you can eat a sweet potato like, "Oh, it's a it's a low glycemic carb. It's got a lot of fiber." Bro, I eat a sweet potato, it fills me out like I'm drinking a damn Coke, a real Coke with sugar in it. and it'll spike my blood sugar. But then I'll go eat a baked potato and I'll eat the skin with the fiber cold. Yeah. Blood sugar won't move a a hair. That's funny. You know, so everyone you have to it's I think that comes down to kind of like the blood type diet, you know, they talk about. I don't believe in all the different types like that, but I believe that your body does respond to different carbs based on your blood type and your ethnicity and things like that, too, you know. So, for me, I found, you know, I don't get fat. I can eat as much jasmine rice as I want. You know what I mean? My body loves jasmine rice and it loves baked potatoes. So that's what I found based off testing my blood sugar. Eat a meal, test it 10 minutes, test it 30 minutes, test it two hours, log everything, see how your spikes in your blood sugar are, and then you'll know what you can and can't eat, too. If you really want to get super OCD like you are with your scale and food, you can take that a step further and go, "All right, which foods actually do I respond to and I not?" If you're bulking, you want to get huge. Well, [\h__\h] Eat the ones that spike your blood sugar more because you're gonna store that and get massive and just you want it the biggest. You want to get bulk. Yeah. Yeah. Like, all right. Well, if I want to bulk, real bulk, like I said, for me, I'm going to eat pizza. I'm going eat burgers with my carb sources. I'm going to go to a bunch of the sweet potatoes because it actually spikes my blood sugar, believe it or not, more than the other ones. Uh, and I get a good response from that to fill out. Yeah. Once I wore a continuous glucose monitor for a month. Yep. Yep. And then you Yeah, that's how you really know. Like the you stick it on and it's apps on your phone. Dude, those are killer. Oh, I recommend anyone. I was so dialed in, man. And I think you can get those now even without a prescription. I'm pretty sure you can order them online. And that Yeah, that's a great way to test what type of foods you can and can't eat. Uh cuz a lot of these people out here can't do anything else. That really helps you know, man. It helps you dial it in, man. And I got to the point where and that's simple because you're just eating throughout the day and you just look at your phone after you eat a meal and go, "Oh [\h__\h] my blood sugar just went from 80 to 140." Yeah, maybe I don't need to eat that. Okay. And then you check the next meal and you're like, "Oh, I ate jasmine rice." "Oh, 80 to 95. Oh, cool. Okay." In that same time frame, you're like, "Yeah, maybe I need to be eating rice." I found out and I found out some stuff that I I didn't realize, you know? I remember once I was um I ate some pulled pork and I was like, "What the fuck?" I mean, it's just all I ate was pork. I didn't know. Then I was like, "Oh, they make the they pulled pork. They have a like sauce, sugar in the sauce." I didn't know that until I looked at That's why that pork's sweet. They they marinate that [\h__\h] even at the grocery store and you can't tell cuz it's soaked in when you cook it. That's what makes it juicy. I didn't know that until until I had to continuous glucose monitor like, "Oh, cuz this should spike my glucose a little bit." You know, that's why I do the no oil and no butter at restaurants. And if I'm getting steak, I say, "Hey, no seasoning or like I I say no dry rub and no sauce." I just tell them to do salt and pepper. really cook my steaks in salt and pepper cuz then you know you're not getting all that extra [\h__\h] and you stay within your calorie content but it still tastes good. You know what I mean? I mean you eat a good steak, bro. I don't I want to taste the meat. I don't want all that other [\h__\h] on my steak. I I had a good steak today. Man, where can they find out more about you, brother? So, I mean, you know, you can check out my Instagram page, Dr. Russ. So, it's Dr. RRS. I'm the peptide king. Um, you know, I've got obviously my bio. I've got both things there. We've got a full clinic. So if you wanted to get blood work done, you can go on there. You can actually make an appointment to do a consultation via phone or walk in. That clinic is in Alabama. So I'm sure most people as the podcast aren't in Alabama. We do phone consults, which is easy. And then if you want blood work, if you're on this east coast, anywhere in South Florida, we can concierge send a phabotamist to your house, to your business. They can draw the labs there. It comes back to us. We call you, one of our health care professionals, like our nurse practitioners or doctors will call you, go over your program, you know, tell you what we recommend, build it, and you can get started that way, too. Sounds good, man. Listen, awesome, man. I appreciate it, brother. Thanks so much. Listen, guys. One more thing before we get up out of here. I'm doing a live training on Wednesday where I'm going to show you how to grow your online fitness business, even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified, even if you don't have uh a lot of experience. All right? And it's going to be 100% free. It's going to be live. It's first link in the description. I'm gonna answer all your questions. I'mma stay on answer all your questions. Every time we do this, we have a good time. It's cool. People seem to learn a lot. People seem to enjoy it. So, I decided to do it again. Uh, but click the link in the description and register now. There is a limit to how many people can let in the room because once we did it and it got it crashed because it was too many putting a limitation on how many people can join. So, join now to make sure you you have your spot. All right. Uh, again, we do this every Tuesday and Thursday at uh 7 PM Eastern Standard Time. All right.