Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. Welcome to another one of our intense free workouts. Yes, these workouts will get you ripped. What I use to get the edge when I do these workouts is Rebellion free workout. If you want to get the edge on your workouts, then click the link somewhere around this video and let's get started. Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. We about to get in this quick abdominal/fat burning workout. Got Natalie doing the easier versions. Brian's going to be doing the more difficult versions. Keep up with whoever you want to keep up with depending on your skill level and ability. First, uh, let's start. Let's start this. Let's get into it, man. First exercise is going to be low jumping jacks. So, getting like a squat and then move like this. All right. Three, two, one, go. See, when you do it when you do the the jumping jacks low like this, what happens is you work your your hamstrings, your and your glutes, and even your quads a lot more than traditional jumping jacks. Traditional gym are a little bit easier. This is going to put more strain on the muscle group. All right, quick. Next exercise is going to be Roman twists. All right, this is a great exercise for your abdominal muscles with a focus on your obliques, the side abs. Check it out. You get in this position like this. Put your legs up. Uh, but you can put your legs down. The easier version. Brian has his legs up. Go from side to side. The key is to make sure you get your shoulder over. All right. So, let's go. The key is make sure you get your shoulder over. Some people do it. They go like this, like they're playing patty cake, but you want to get your shoulder over. That's going to activate the obliques, the side muscles. Nice. Natalie's crushing it. Looking like a little warrior. Brian's doing his thing. Yes. All right. Cool. Quick. Next exercise is high knees. All right. So, we're going to go you're just going to you're just going to go you're just going to jump up and put your knees in your chest. Not so much trying to get higher. You're just kind get your knees in your chest. You're not jumping up high as you can. You're just trying to get your knees in your chest. Go. This is a real difficult one, but it's good. It's good. It's only difficult because of the duration. These guys are soldiers. Listen, don't kill yourself. You need to take a break. Take a break. Don't kill yourself, but try to make it happen. Yes. All right. Next exercise is Superman push-ups. This is how you do it. You get in like this and come up. All right. That's Now, that's very difficult. The easier version is you get in plank position and you kind of just go like that. That's the easier version. This works the same muscles, but it's a lot less difficult. Natalie's going to do the easier version. Brian's going to do the beach long version. Get it. Good. This takes This really works your core. It takes a lot of uh like crazy core strength for you to just get your body up like that from off the ground. This is works the same muscles. It's just a lot easier. Rest. Breath. Next exercise is bicycles. This is another great abdominal exercise. Basically, what you want to do is get your feet like 6 in above the ground. Put one knee to the opposite elbow. Come out. Now, the key to this is extend your elbows. Obviously, extend your legs fully. Some people they just do this. They mean bicycles and tricycles. So, here we go. Make sure you get that extension. Nice. Nice. Nice. Now, they're crushing it. Listen, those of you just watching this, you're not doing it. If you're just watching, listen, take the transformation challenge. Go to Yes, we have a transformation challenge for 2016. Go to uh brolaboratories.com/trformation and join the transformation challenge. Next exercise is going to be Spider-Man planks. You get in plank position and then you put your knees to your elbow, right? That's going to work the the core and the side obliques. Good. Good. Remember, growlaboratories.com/transformation. All right. Give you all the tools you need to get ripped this year and finally get in shape, transform your body, stop [\h__\h] around, and accomplish your goals. Be the person you set out to be. Be who you're supposed to be. All right. Next exercise. Alternating toe touch. Another great ab exercise. Your feet about 6 in against the ground. Just like that. Bam. Try to get the key is what makes it more difficult is to keep your feet above the ground the whole time. All right. Like that. Like don't don't put it down like that. Good. Good. Great. Great. Great. Great. Those y'all seen Brian training. Look at him like a year ago. Look at him now, man. He's ripped more more ripped, more muscular. You want to get you want the same sort of results, brolaboratories.com/transformation. You too can have a great body this year. All right. Next exercise is bird dogs. You want to get in push-up position. All right. And then bam. But the whole thing, the key is to try to not put your butt in the air. It's not that type of video. You watch that on the other internet sites. Good. Nice flat back. As you can see, it's activating the glutes, but it also works the core, abs, all of that. Great exercise. Very effective. Next exercise is jumping lunges. All right, you go. All it is is you can do a lunge and then you just you don't put your knee on the ground. You get it like a few inches above the ground. Then you you jump in the air and switch while you're airborne. All right. Like so. Doing great. Doing great. Nice. Nice. Nice. Champions. Listen. You too can be ripped like these two. Rollabatory.com/transformation. Our next exercise is burpees. Brian's going to do one leg burpees. Now he's going to do regular burpees without the push-up. So one leg burpees look like this. If you can't do that, do traditional burpees. And if you can't do that, still do burpees without the push-ups like Natalie's doing. So go. Good. Brian's a beast, so he's going for these one leg burpees. Natalie's doing burpees without the push-ups. Both difficult. It's a great exercise. I've been thinking about doing a 100 burpee a day challenge. What do you guys think of that? Rest. Now, we're going to do same thing other leg. So, and if you weren't switching legs, then you just do the same thing over again. Just another set of burpees. You know, listen, you want to get ripped like these two, brotories.com/trformation, get in there right now. You two can look ripped, have a ripped physique, look shredded. Summer's coming. Whether you want it or not, whether you're ready or not, it ain't going to wait for you. The season ain't going to wait for you. And if you haven't, you should try Rebellion pre-workout. Whoop. We took this before the workout helps us get and help us really go for it. All right. So, this is called X-Man. All right. So, basically X-Man push-ups. So, you're going to but you can speed it up though. Basically like jumping jacks on the floor. Go. Nice. Nice. Basically, jumping jacks on the floor. Sometimes they're called floor jacks. Nice. Oh. Oh, Brian stepping it up. He done found another gear. The Look at him. Look. That rebellion's kicking in. That rebellion pre-workout's kicking in. When the When the rebellion's in the system, ain't no telling if I'm running or I'm lifting. Our next exercise is going to be we're going to do the whole thing over again. Starting with low jumping jacks. So, get a nice shoulder stance. Get like a squat position. Oh, and jumping jacks. You know, it's round two. Round two. You ready? Oh, you have to put it in a ponytail. Yeah. Yeah. I usually hold like the ponytails. Why? This guy knows what I'm talking about. Not that kind of video. It's not that kind of video though. It's not that kind of video. Rest. Take it easy. Take it. She wants Hey, she wants more. She can't get enough. She can't get enough. Roman twist again. Bam. Make sure you get that [\h__\h] shoulder over. Don't [\h__\h] around. Don't listen. Pretend to work out on someone else's time if you're going to do this patty cake. Get that shoulder over. Like your shoulder should go over your crotch if you're doing it right. Nice. Look at them oblique muscles, man. You want to get ripped like her, bro. laboratories.com/transformation. Give you all the tools required to make this year your best year ever fitness-wise. Rest. Rest. Then we're going to do high and knees again. You know what it is? Listen, you got to master your body. If you don't master your body, how you going to go out and master other parts of your life? How you going to master anything else in your world? Your life, your career, your relationships? It all starts with yourself. Got to master yourself first. And that starts right now with these [\h__\h] high knees. Let's go. How bad you want it though? How bad you want it though? Ain't no mother. Next exercise is Superman push-ups. How bad you want it, man? How bad you want to succeed this year? You know what I'm saying? We done. We We laying everything out for you. Giving you all the tools you need. Let's get it. Remember, bro, these are Superman push-ups. Now, he's going to be doing the easier version. Got to fix my microphone. I'm too beat of this microphone. Look at that. Look at that. Maybe you can't do a Superman push-up right now. That's cool. Start with that. Maybe you can only do one. Do one and then go into that. Do the best you can. Get in your comfort zone but then try to expand past your comfort zone. Next exercise is bicycles ble mam bam. Make sure you make your knees. Don't be doing this [\h__\h] like a [\h__\h] bug. You go like this. BC clay pingo. How bad you want it, man? How bad you want it this year? Rest. You going You going to be a fat [\h__\h] the rest of this year or is it going you going to change it this year? This year you going to get ripped. If you can't conquer your body, how you going to conquer anything else? It all starts within. It all starts with the next exercise is alternating toe touch alternating don'te touch. Oh my fault. My fault. Yo, sometimes I make mistakes. The key is when you make a mistake, man, just say, "Hey, I made I messed up. Don't make excuses. I made a mistake. Let's try to make let's let's make it better." [\h__\h] man. Now it's alternating toe touch. Hey bro, I jumped the gun, man. I jumped the gun. I messed up. But you know what? You you're you're strong when I'm weak. Alternate to you know how this go. Keep your legs up off the ground the entire time. Four 3 two one. Try to touch your toes. If you can't reach them, that's cool. Just do the best you can, you know, but keep it up. Keep doing these exercises and pretty soon you will be able to reach your toe with relative ease. Right? It's not even about it's not about where you at about where you going. Where you going? Where you going? What kind of person you want to be? Everything you going to have in the future is going to be a result of everything you do now. You know, are you putting in the work? Think about the kind of person you want to become. Are you putting in the work that's going to allow you to become that kind of person now? Or are you [\h__\h] around, bullshitting, or you going for yours? I don't know. You tell me. Bird dogs. Bird dogs. Good. A lot of women at home say, "Oh [\h__\h] how can I get a butt like that? How can I butt like that?" All right. You got to work out. You got to train for it. You can't just get it. Can't just get it. Natalie, your butt looks good, too. Next exercise is jump lunges. You know what it is. Get in a lunge position. Feet uh knees does not touch the ground, right? Comes a few inches above the ground. Switch in the air. All right, switch it on. Doing great. You're almost done. You're almost done. You know what it is. Y'all doing great. Presumably, if you're doing this workout, get it. Who you want to be this year, man? This year. This year. Is 2016 going to be all all like all the other years? Will you dwell in mediocrity or are you going to surround yourself with greatness? Are you gonna make yourself are you become the best version of yourself this year or you remain the same? It's all up to you. You're not getting better, you're getting worse. Next exercise is burpees. Oh, Brian will be doing the onelegged variety cuz it's beast mode, [\h__\h] If you can't do the onelegged burpees yet, work your way up to it. Get them where you fit it. Let's go. Nice. Listen, if you need to take a break, take a break. Don't kill yourself, but push yourself. Don't kill yourself. Push yourself. Try to do a little bit more each time. Try to go a little bit harder every time. Every time you do a workout like this, how how maybe And if you can do it, if you can do this just fine, maybe do it faster each time. Maybe try to get more reps in between next time you do it. You know, always be pushing yourself to the next level, you know. All you trying to push yourself, trying to make it, trying to make yourself feel better. You're not Said Pat rally, we got to do burpees again. Go. It all starts with It all starts with yourself. You want to change anything in your life, it starts with you. If you don't have mastery of yourself, how can you master your relationships, your job, your career, your business? You got to master yourself first. That's why we put such an emphasis on fitness. Being aesthetics or looking good is not everything. What is everything is being able to control yourself, being in charge of your body. All right? Not be uh being able to to have more discipline. All right? Pushing yourself through physical pain. That's going to help you conquer other types of pain in your life. You know, rest. When you when it's hard and it's difficult and you push yourself to keep going in spite of how difficult it is, in spite of how much pain you're feeling, you put yourself you keep pushing yourself, you become more resilient. Now, when other things in your life start to happen outside of fitness, you'll be more equipped to deal with it because you have built up a certain level of resilience. That's what this is about. Now, we done with the workout. Great job. Ready? First, you first you fail, you got to try again. We had to do. We had to do it. So, we got it. All right. So, that was it. Quick little workout. Hope you get ripped. Hope you help your abs get ripped. Hope you get ripped like Natalie. If you're ripped like Brian Natalie, say your Instagram so people can follow you. Instagram. Nat a denova. It's a long one. D E G N O V A N. Nat Dable. Denova. And you know what I'm saying? Look here. Look here. If you're serious about getting in the best shape of your life this year, if you're not like [\h__\h] around, if if if this is a priority, some you've been putting on the shelf for years, now is the time. Take it off the shelf. Now it's time to take it off the back burner. Put it and heat it up, man. Turn it up. Now is the time to take control of your life. Take control of your body. Accomplish what do what you say you're supposed to do. Do what you say you're going to do. Accomplish what you say you're going to accomplish. Take it to the next level. If you're willing to do that and embark on that journey, we put together something to help you with that. It's the Bro Laboratories Transformation Challenge. All right, go to brolaboratories.com/trformation. We're going to arm you with all the weapons you need to make this year the best year of your life. All right, see you tomorrow. Peace. How ripped do you want be? This is a serious question. How ripped do you want to be? What supplement do I use? T- rats. 100% natural fat burn. It's not a magic pill. Ain't no magic pills, man. If it was a magic pill, then you could take it, put in the ground, and it'll grow beantock and you go to heaven. I'm not going to try to tell you this is magic. You just eat these pills and you'll get red. You got to put in the work. But when you put in the work, you want to make sure you can get the most out of it. And that's what I use T-Rex for.