I'd like to talk with you this evening about being hungry. One of the things I have realized and many of us have that if you want something out of life, if you want to change yourself, if you want to acquire something, if there's some goal that you want to reach, that is really not easy as some people will make us feel. that living your dream, changing your behaviors, overcoming negative habits, it's challenging, it's hard, always something. You will never ever have a problemfree moment in life. So, how do we begin to nurture that hunger? What are the characteristics of the qualities of people that are hungry? What will it take for me to get some of the things that I want? and being hungry for those things. Number one, you got to work on yourself. It's very important that you engage in an ongoing process to develop you. Spend more time on yourself than what you've been spending. Whatever you're doing, do it with everything that you have. Develop the habit of giving more than what you're paid for. Develop the habit of of setting standards that others will be measured by. Someone said, "Do not go where the path may lead, but go where there's no path and leave a trail." If you get into the habit of just being mediocre, it will become a part of your consciousness. If you get in a habit of giving less than what you have it within you to give, it will begin to reflect itself in your personality. It will begin to damage you psychologically. And you don't want to be a part of that kind of self-destructive behavior. And so you want to set some high standards for yourself. Start living life with a sense of urgency and using what we've got, using ourselves up, sharing what we brought into the universe to share. Because if we don't, nobody else will. Stop wasting valuable time knowing that if we begin to live our lives as if each day were our last, our lives will take a take on a whole new meaning and take on a whole new expression, valuing each moment that we are blessed with. Many of us never realize our greatness because we become sidetracked by secondary activity. We spread ourselves too thin, don't know how to say no, and we find ourselves doing all kinds of things and never ever have time to do those things that we need to do to work on ourselves. And then there goes a second, there goes another second, there goes another second, and we can't stop and hold time. And before you know it, you wake up one day and you're behind in your dreams and your bills. So decide that you're going to take some time to work on you. that you deserve that from yourself, that your life deserves some prime time because you are creating your own production. As Michael Todd would say, you are the star of your show. You are the director. You're writing the script and you will determine whether your life is a smash office hit or flop. The next thing that begins to nurture that hunger for whatever it is that you want to do, you want to do it massively. Decide that you're going to push yourself. Most people won't do that. Most people give up on themselves easily. You know, the human spirit is powerful. There's nothing that's powerful. It's hard to kill the human spirit. There has the power to hold on in spite of everything. The power to endure. This is the winner's quality. The hunger, the ability to face defeat again and again without giving up. Part of being hungry when you've been defeated, it takes courage to start over again. That when you step into your fears, somebody said, it was Winston Churchill, he said that courage is going from failure to failure without losing enthusiasm. When you step into your fears and continue to push yourself to go on, something happens for you. It will enable you to transcend yourself. If you don't develop the courage to do that which has been given you to do and you spend a lot of time going around trying to convince other people or trying to get their approval, what will happen is that you will lose your nerve and other people will convince you that what you're doing doesn't have any value and you'll give up on your dream. When you're hungry, you don't care about the facts. You don't care about the odds. Doug Williams played for the Washington Redskins quarterback. John Elway at the Denver Broncos in the Super Bowl. Everybody was talking about Elway. Elway after the Super Bowl when Doug Williams made a historic passing game. They asked him said, "How were you able in spite of all of the negative publicity saying that you couldn't win? How did how did you do it?" He said, "I ignored my critics. I just didn't pay any attention to them. I ignored myself because they kept on saying it so much. There were times I doubted whether or not I can do what I needed to do. There's a Doug Williams in everybody here. There's greatness in you and you've got to learn how to tune out the critics outside and the critic inside and says, "I'm going to do this. I'm going to harness my will and I'm not going to let anything stop me. I deserve this. I'm going to do it until if you want something, you have got to be relentless. When crisis strike in your life, and in the Chinese language, crisis mean danger, but it also means opportunity. And this is an opportunity for you to grow. And you've got to be so relentless regardless of what comes down the pike that you're always looking for a way to get over. Always looking for a way that you can break through. Always looking for a way that you can win. Always looking for a way that you can strike a telling blow. You got to be the kind of person that you are fearless. You are unstoppable. And because you unstoppable, because you've got power that you haven't even begun to use yet, you owe to yourself to release your brakes. How many of you had the experience of pulling out of your driveway and your mashed on the accelerator and the car was just going and couldn't move and you mashed harder and you couldn't move and then you discovered you had your emergency brakes on and then you release those emergency brakes and it goes choo. Have you ever had that experience before? Most of us go through life with our brakes on, holding back, not giving all that we have, not sharing all of ourselves. Most of us go to our grave still holding on rather than releasing it. What are some of those things that that keep us from releasing it because of past experiences, past defeats, past pain? We look back, well, it didn't work out then. It probably won't work out now. See, the last chapter to your life has not been written yet. And it doesn't matter about what happened yesterday. It doesn't matter about the things that you've done that you feel guilty about. If you wouldn't do it today, you're convicting an innocent person. You've been reborn to a new state of consciousness. And as they say, if we knew better, we would do better. And so you begin to decide, I'm not going to be denied. You want to be persistent about what it is that you want to achieve. Alexander Graanbell said, "What this power is, I cannot say. All I know is that it exists and it becomes available only when a man or woman is in that state of mind in which he or she knows exactly what he or she wants and is fully determined not to quit until they find it." Don't get caught up in, well, I've tried it four or five times and things didn't work out. If there's something that you want and you're hungry for it, you've got to do whatever is necessary until, and when you give the best you can and that's not enough, you must do what is required. And don't give up on yourself. Don't throw the towel in so quickly. Many people give up on the one yard line. And that's why most people never realize their personal greatness because they're casual about life. And when you are casual about life, you will end up a casualty. Life is serious business. So I encourage you to be persistent. This is a winner's quality. You have that quality within you.