Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Brandon Carter. A question I get all the time is, "How do I lose fat and build muscle at the same time simultaneously?" And I suggest I don't suggest you try to do that because the human body doesn't really want to build muscle and burn fat uh simultaneously. To to burn fat, you have to be in a caloric deficit, meaning you have to be burning more calories than you consume. to build muscle, you should be in a caloric surplus, meaning you should be uh consuming more calories than you burn. So, you can't do that at the same time, right? It's like, yeah, I mean, you got to pick one another. You know, you're going to be in the deficit or the surplus. You can't have good breath and bad breath. So, what I like to do is something called micro cuts and micro bulks. So, how how it works is first, I try to get as lean as I want to get. You need to get lean. If you're like if you're if you got a lot of a lot of body fat, I say just get lean first, right? then build the muscle, right? But here's the thing. You see, you see pro bodybuilders, they what they do is they do long bolts. They bolt for like six months and they get fat, real out of shape, but they put on a lot of muscle during that time. Then they spend the next six months cutting just to be really ripped and muscular on at at one show, right? So, they're out of shape the majority of the year, but they call it offseason. Well, you probably you're probably not a pro bodybuilder. You're a pro bodybuilder. I mean, I you're you're probably not getting your fitness advice from homemade YouTube videos. So, I I follow a a similar protocol, but what I I call this micro cuts and micro bolts. So, first you get as lean as you want to get, then you cut that. You cut your bulk for like two, three weeks. I just until I get like I bulk until I feel like my abs are starting to go away, then I cut. So, like two, three weeks of bulky bulking, two, three weeks of cutting. And it's always like that. I I learned that from one of my old mentors, Bill Phillips, uh founder of ES Sports Nutrition, Muscle Media Magazine, author of Body for Life. He was when I started working out, he was like my guy, like my mentor, right? And not in real life, but through his writings and kind of like how I'm mentoring you through the internet, you know, through through the worldwide web. And he followed that protocol. Greg Plit actually followed a similar protocol. That's how he was able to stay ripped all year round. Uh, so that's that's what I'll do. Hope that helps. Check out some I have some more Q&A videos somewhere around here. All right.