Oh, hey. What's going on, man? It's a pattern interruption. Yo, my name is Big Brandon Carter. This is Bella. Yo, listen. Uh, I want to talk to you guys today about full body workouts verse split routines, you know, like the guys do. So, let's just let's just check it out, right? So, I think that full body workouts are superior for guys who want to build muscle and and girls and humans. Mhm. Mammals who want to build muscle. Yeah. Uh there's a few there's a bunch of reasons, right? Uh one, it increases uh testosterone production, uh growth hormone, uh insulin, all the anabolic hormones, but you know that I I would need like studies and science to back that up. And I don't feel like googling that [\h__\h] and bringing it up for you guys to to I mean, I know it's true. I just don't feel like researching it for you, right? So, I'm going to make it real simple for you. I'm just going to use basic arithmetic to show you why. So here's the split split guy full body guy. All right, these are two guys, right? My handwriting sucks somewhere. So guys, this is a T graph. All right, now let's say now the split guy, let's say he's doing a split where maybe he's doing pull push legs or maybe he's doing one body part a day, right? I used to do [\h__\h] like that, right? uh one body part a day, once a week. But he's pro, no matter what he's doing, he's probably working each body part once a week, right? Let's say let's say he's going hard. Let's say he's serious. That's why he got he did this [\h__\h] split. He's serious. So he is for his chest. Let's just say chest. He does uh does four sets of four exercises, right? For chest. Okay, that's going to equal 16 sets. He's doing 16 sets and he can only probably do that once a week, right? If you're doing that kind of volume, 16, you're probably going to do that once a week. You'll be sore, right? Right. Uh, so he get 16 sets per week. All right. Now, okay, me per week. Cool. Sounds like it sounds normal. Sounds right. Sounds right. All right. So now 16 sets a week times let's say you know 52 weeks in a year. Oh my handwriting sucks and this whiteboard is exacerbating that problem. He gets year. You know, obviously he's going to take weeks off. He's going to go on vacation. He's going to have fun. He's going to, you know, I'm just just just for this example, just to illustrate everything. Keep the math consistent. Not bad. Not bad. Now, but then you say a guy like me or some of you guys, some of you warriors out there, you're doing full body splits, right? I mean, you're doing full body workouts and not splits. So, every time you do full body workouts now, this is just his chest, mind you. This is just his chest. I'm saying this is just his chest. Maybe, you know, but when we're doing full body workouts, we're doing like two exercises for chest. Maybe we're doing uh bench press and dips, right? I like dips is one of my or you know, something like that. Now we're in full body. We're doing two exercises, four sets of each. Right? Two exercises, four sets of each. Bam. We got eight. All right. We only eight sets per workout. But here's the thing. We can do that three times a week. Ah, now I'm getting 24 sets. Per week. Is that right? 24 24 sets per week. Right. Because cuz we only did cuz we did half the volume. We're not sore for the whole week. We can work it again. We can take one day off and work that and do it again. Right. So, we're getting 24 sets per week because we can do this three times. Sometimes you can do it four times, right? So, I'm not even taking that into account, right? But now, check this out. This is where it gets really interesting because 24 * 52, let's say we do this [\h__\h] all [\h__\h] year. We don't. We're going to take race off, but just to for this example, for this illustration. Damn son. Damn son. 1,248 sets per year. Bam. So, there you go. I mean, you're doing more sets. You're going to get be able to get more sets per body part per year, right? So, throughout the course of the year, I mean, you can say what you [\h__\h] you want. You can claim whatever you want, but you can't argue with math. You can't argue with math. Everything everything in the world is subjective except for arithmetic. You can't argue with that. That's mathematics right there. But let's take it a step further, right? This guy, let's say uh what exercise he doing, this is for chest, right? He's doing four sets of four. He's probably doing two compound movements. Let's say let's say let's he might he's probably not he's probably doing bench press uh flies cable crossover and I don't know let's give him the benefit of the doubt that he's doing another compound movement right okay so let's say he's doing bench press uh incline bench right uh flies and cable crossovers all right let's say he's doing neck right two of Those exercises are isolation movements, meaning they're like excess. Don't isolation movements don't get you big. Compound movements get you big, like bench press, deadlift, pull-ups, dips, uh overhead press, those exercises are going to get you big, get you your muscles big. Isolation movements, they have their place, but they're not they're and they they will in they will get you bigger, but not they don't work half as well as compound movements. Compound movements and anybody who argues with that just doesn't know [\h__\h] about bodybuilding, you know, they're just they're making [\h__\h] up. The only the reason bodybuilders do a lot when you go to open a bodybuilder magazine, they're doing all these uh accessory movements is because they have to go on stage and they have to have like crazy definition and like the middle upper chest has to be more defined. His middle upper chest, his the the his rear delts not as good as his rear delt, so he wins. Like [\h__\h] that nobody thinks about traps. Like kids are always worrying about traps. Mhm. You ever seen a guy and be like, "Oh yeah, those traps. I just need to I need to meet him." Have you ever had that thought? got big traps there. Yeah, those those traps are huge. You ever heard you ever had that thought? Never. Yo, Thug shrugs ain't going to get you no girls, dumb ass. So, check it out. But here, the full body, we're only doing compound exercises. We're only doing like when we do we'll do incline incline maybe like uh yeah, incline press or flat bench uh uh bench press or or we'll do like dips, you know, we'll only do all all our exercise are compound. So, not only are you getting more sets, your sets are more effect. There's more sets of more effective exercises because half of this guy's [\h__\h] is [\h__\h] Half of his exercise are borderline useless. Unless he's going to be on stage in his underwear, you know, in one of them pageantss in some in a pageant competing against other guys in underwear. That's not how I like to spend my time. Those aren't that's not consistent with my goals. Those guys are elite athletes. I'm not trying to take anything away from them, right? Um, you know, I got a poster of Arnold in the crib, you know, no homo, but I'm just saying that's that's not my goal. My goal is not to be in the pageant, you know? I just want I just want to get swole in this [\h__\h] you know? So, that's why I just say, "Hey, man, I just focus on the compound movements." and I get more compound movements per year and the exercises I'm doing are twice as effective as this guys. This is just I mean this is basic math, man. But here's the thing. Some guys I'm not saying you won't get results with splits. Like you can get results. I just argue that you may get them faster with a compound move and maybe not though, right? Everything's hypothetical until you apply it to your own life. My boy Kino Body, he had a a video the other day. He said he used to do full body split, full body workouts, then he he then he moved to split splits and he started getting the results he want, you know, better results, right? Oh, it depends on what you want. Hey, man, it's the it's just different. You know, he's just, you know, some [\h__\h] is everything's hypothetical to you apply to your own life. I, on the other hand, started with splits and I was like I was slim and I was in good shape, right? But I was slimmer, right? I didn't start putting on that muscle mass until I until I just started doing full body workouts. I mean, it just didn't happen. I just think it's better, man. I just think it's better and I've seen results. And like not only with myself, though, you got to understand like I've been a trainer for over 10 years, man. Like, I've actually trained people in the field. You know what I'm saying? This is not something that just worked for me. This is something I've seen work for a lot of people, right? in person like I've seen it happen for them. I've helped it happen for them, right? I helped them uh put this protocol into place and they made gains. I've seen it, you know, and I I've tested against this with a large sample size of actual human beings, right? This is not theory I'm telling you, right? This is this is stuff that I've seen in practice. So, it's a big difference between, you know, something that worked for me and me telling you what I've seen work for a a large sample size of people. Now, this still might work better for you having that said, right? The only way to know is to test it. Like my boy Keody, man, he tested this against this and this worked better for him. The majority of the people I've trained, when I test this against this, this works better for them. But not everyone. Anyone who tells you that they know the exact protocol that's going to work best for 100% of human beings is full of [\h__\h] He's either lying or he's stupid or some or but the odds are it's a combination of both. You know, I'm telling you that I believe this will work better for the majority of you. There will be outliers and you guys are here. So, you should test it. Do this for three weeks. Track your progress. If you if you're keeping a training log, which you should be keeping a training log, track this against this, then maybe try this for three more months and track your results. See what works better for you and then double down on that. If you want to know more about this protocol, I'll put a link down in the description, you know, uh of how exactly I put together my full body uh workouts, you should check out my book, Ultimate Mass. I'll put it in the description. It only cost 99, right? And I and I go into greater detail about why this is better. And there's a lot of other [\h__\h] that goes like that. We can talk about how how it affects your hormones. Uh I mean, I can go on and on about the [\h__\h] but the only way for you to really know if it's going to work for you is to test it. Test it, too. All right. Peace. How ripped do you want to be? This is a serious question. How ripped do you want to be? What supplement do I use? T-Rex. 100% natural fat burn. It's not a magic pill. Ain't no magic pills, man. If it was a magic pill, then you could take it, put in the ground, and it'll grow beantock and you go to heaven. I'm not going to try to tell you this is magic. You just eat these pills and you'll get ready. You got to put in the work. But when you put in the work, you want to make sure you can get the most out of it. And that's what I use T-Rex for.