Yo, what up? What up? It's your man, Big Brandon Carter. So, a lot of people been asking me, I get this question all the time, how do you lose fat in your arms, belly fat, breast fat, thigh fat, etc. And the simple answer to that is you can't. It's impossible. It's not it's not a thing, right? You can't lose fat in just one spot, right? Uh you have to lose it accumulatively. If you lose to lose fat anywhere, you have to lose fat everywhere. to the reason people ask this question. All right, so almost all the time it's women asking how do they lose thigh fat and almost all the time it's men asking how do they lose belly fat for the most part and that's because men we have more fat cells in our abdominal region and women have more fat cells in their lower body, their thighs and that ass. So you can't just lose fat in one spot. you when you're losing it, when you're trying to when you're losing fat everywhere, it seems like for women, the thighs are going to be the last part to go. And for men, it's gonna seem like the the belly fat, the belly fat is gonna be the last part to go. That's what skinny fat, right? Like Bart Simpson. So you the key is to lose it to everywhere. So just keep doing more of what you're doing and it's just just know that it's going to be less. What I do to burn fat or what you what everyone the only way to burn fat is to burn more calories than you consume. All right. Two ways to do that is to get your diet in order. Uh if you've read Ultimate Cuts or taken the Full Body Bliss program, then you'll see I give a lot of examples. I go into greater detail on that subject. It's kind of beyond the scope of this video. Uh and training, you know, cardio, lifting weights and cardio. All right. So, before I lift or I do cardio, I take a supplement called Rebellion pre-workout because it it helps me really helps me go a little harder. That's just if you want to if you if you're interested in just should be link around somewhere. Uh the kind of cardio I do is either slow cardio like walking for a long period for like hour or two, right? I don't do it often because I don't that kind of time or hit cardio like in my I have a lot of hit cardio videos uh where it's like four sometimes it's as little as four minutes but it's an intense four minutes or it's up to like 15 20 minutes depending on the intensity. you know, it's not about it's not necess when it comes to hit cardio, it's not necessarily about the duration, it's about the intensity. So, anyway, hit cardio. Hit cardio is best because it raises your metabolism throughout the day, right? So, you you're going to be burning more calories all the time, right? It puts you in a different it turns your body into a fat burning bmise almost. But anyway, I'll talk more about that in my full body blitz program if you're interested. I just want to answer that quick question. Uh, I'll have a link around somewhere where you can check out the next question answer video. All right, peace.