Yo, what up? What up? Your man Big Brandon Carter. I'm here with my boy Mark from London. Mark, I always say your name wrong. Mark, your last name drama. I call you Mark Drama. Mark Dama. Close, bro. Dama, high performance health and mindset coach. All right. So, he gonna help you. He really focuses on working with uh entrepreneurs and mostly in Hollywood Hills. That's that's where he lives right now. uh one of his coaches, one of his clients is uh Owen, right? RSDs. You guys know him. And uh that's actually we met through him. And uh so yeah, Mark's like a you know what I'm saying? International uh celebrity trainer, whatever you you know. Tell tell us more about yourself, Mark, man. Oh, bro, we actually met We actually met Tai Lopez's place. Yeah, we met at Ty We Tai Lopez. I remember. That's right. I I was um I was working with Ty and then you turned up one day doing handstands in the garage. That famous garage. He was doing handstands in my garage. Yeah. You know what I like? Hey, listen. You know what I like more than material things is handstands. That's what you was doing and had an interview with James Swanik because that's the first time I met you. But I guess we really we really got speaking when uh we were both introduced um through you know RSD Tyler. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's up man. Then we uh Mark actually was my open he opened for me at the at the World Summit. He spoke before at the the RSD uh event the world summit. So that was I was I was like [\h__\h] man. How am I gonna go behind all this man? You had you had powerpoints and [\h__\h] I had I had powerpoints and had it all structured. You just rocked up there and everyone said yo Brandon that was the most engaging funniest talk out the whole series man. You killed it. That was fantastic. Well thank you. I appreciate that's called beginner's luck. Beginner's luck. I don't know, man. I don't know. But and do you do it once is luck. If you do it twice is skill. So that's right. We'll see if next time, bro. So any man, so like I know you like what intrigues me about you and your your methodology. I know you have like a lot of hacks, right? Like a lot a lot of Yeah. I don't know if hacks is the right word, but I know you walk around with those uh melatonin glasses, right? We were eating dinner and the in the um it was it was all of us like all the guys from RSD, me, Mark, and uh Mark Mark had on these glasses, these melatonin glasses and uh at the at the only only dude with glasses on at the wind rest at drostanolone in the wind eating eating ribeye steak and I was like, "Yo, this dude is serious, man. This dude is focused. He's serious about his uh listen, this how I knew he was serious about your melatonin. Can you tell us more about these melatonin glasses?" Yeah, dude. Well, I guess it it comes from I'm like I'm serious about my sleep. I'm totally serious about sleep. And you know, I'm a high performance health coach, mindset coach with entrepreneurs. And one of the things that um I'd say most of us in our society, one of the huge things around health and like being your top of your kind psychologically too is sleep. And it's totally undervalued in our society. Like, you know, studies show that the more you sleep, the more creative you're going to be the following day, the more your hormones are going to be optimized, the more testosterone you're going to have for building muscle. Um, the the less the more antioxidants you're going to have in your body, so you reduce your risk of cancer, the better your memory is going to be, the better your learning capacity is going to be, and a whole host of other benefits from sleep. Like, sleep is your body's chance to totally recharge, um, optimize itself. So when you wake up, you're completely at your best. It's a shutdown, rest, recovery. And you know, Brandon, even from training, you need rest and recovery so you can come back stronger. Okay? If you don't, right, if you don't get your rest and recovery, then you ain't you ain't going to come back stronger. You're actually going to come back weaker. So every day we have a chance for like rest and recovery, and it's free. It's called sleep. Mhm. And one of the huge huge detractors of high quality sleep, good deep sleep is actually artificial lights. Okay, artificial lights. So, you know, I've I've heard people say that there's books on this how the artificial lights affects our sleep cycle, and I'll go into that in a second. But people say the scientists who study this, they say like almost every single one of us have lived our entire lives in um almost jet lag in a jet lag like state. And what I mean by that is naturally as the sun goes down, it gets dark around. That's a signal to our brain like hey the sun's gone down, it's night time. Okay. So, let's start producing the hormone you just mentioned before, Brandon. Let's start producing Yeah. Let's start producing melatonin. Okay. So, the it's dark. Your brain says, "Oh, it's night. Let's start producing melatonin." And melatonin is a hormone that's produced in our brain in our pituitary gland, I believe. And what it does is it goes into our brain. It makes us feel tired to start off with. Helps our body relax. And melatonin is actually one of the most powerful antioxidants we know of. Okay? So, it's a huge antioxidant. So, the more melatonin you have in your brain, the easier it is to get to sleep and the deeper the sleep you're going to have. Now, we know the deeper sleep you're going to have is going to give you all the benefits like more testosterone, better memory, better learning, you know, feeling better in the morning. Only problem is that all these artificial lights from our cell phones, from our computer screens, from even just regular light bulbs, sun goes down, our brain starts turning on melatonin. These lights, your brain thinks the sun is the lights. So your it the lights mimic the sun. So your brain's like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. It's not dark. It's light outside." You know, shut down melatonin production. actually shuts down melatonin production for up to four hours. So that means that when you go to sleep after turning off all your lights, you may not have much melatonin in your brain. You may have none at all. So it means it's harder to get to sleep. It's harder when you do get to sleep. You're not going to get into a deeper sleep. And let's say, you know, what time does the sun go down out there in New York right now? Oh man, like seven or eight. 78ish around. That's what that's what it's doing it about now. Okay. Seven or eight. What time does it come up around? Uh [\h__\h] I know you're up early, man. You know you get up real early, man. Like like it starts coming up around 5 5:36, you know. Okay. 5:36. All right. So like 8 to 5:36, you know, around 10 hours of um darkness. Okay. So that's 10 hours of melatonin production, you know, a day that we could get. So that means deep sleep. And remember, it's one of the most powerful antioxidants. It protects us from cancer. That's scientifically proven. It protects us from cancer. But if you're turning off your phones or you're turning off your lights at say 10 or 11, let's say it's 11, then you're only getting like six, seven hours of melatonin production. And it stops melatonin. Artificial light stops melatonin production for up to four hours. So you may only be getting four or five hours of melatonin production, whereas naturally you get maybe 10 hours of it. I know. I get what you're saying. Like that's why like I now the I want to ask you about the lights because what I do is I black out my room. I black out curtains. I cover up all the the [\h__\h] cable box the lights on the modem. It's pitch black in there because it's actually those lights that your your your retina can detect it through your eyelid, right? So like it keeps you it doesn't it stops you from getting the deep deep sleep if there's any light coming in from any light in the room. So I make my room pitch pitch black. I know uh when funny story I'm not gonna say who it was but uh one one when we were in Vegas some of the guys some guys he had his um one of the guys he had his uh windows like with with pay with uh blocked off in the hotel room with uh garbage bags and and and like painters tape, right? And I know a lot of RSD guys do that because they need to sleep during the day and they're out late at night. So this guy in particular, he had that going on in his uh this hotel room and then he brought he said he brought this girl back, you know, he pulled, right? That's one of some of the jargon, right? You got she went to look out the window and she saw the [\h__\h] his whole [\h__\h] window was b was boarded up with black paint with black with black garbage bag and then yeah, she was like she got scared as spoil like she was about to get murdered, you know. Uh and uh then he calmed he I guess he calmed it down. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, man. It's crazy. It's crazy stuff. But you're right about anymore, but he thought he would. What did you say? Yeah, you're right about blacking out, you know, your whole room, making sure no light comes in because that does disrupt your sleep. But yeah, going back to those um those glasses you saw me wearing. So, what those glasses do is they put you in what they call like a a virtual darkness. So, these are orange glasses. You get specific types. So, I'm actually developing some cool looking ones cuz the ones I look look a bit geeky and a bit dorky. So, I'm getting some cool ones. But I thought it was cool, man. You look like a like black British black Robocop with those. Yes, dude. All right, I feel better now. But um yeah, with these um blue light blocking. In fact, you know what? I've got a pair in my bag right now. I can pull it out. But these glasses, these are some special one Oakley made for me. But these these glasses right here. M they're like orange glasses. Okay, so when I put them on, everything looks orange. But what these do is they protect protect your eyes from a particular type of light called blue light. So the light we see, I ain't going to get into the science, but there's like different wave spectrums, but it's a the blue light that mimics the sun the most. So it's your brain, the light from your artificial lights, from your laptops, from your phones, from regular bulbs. It emits a light called blue light. And it's that specific type of light that shuts down melatonin production. So what these do is they block the blue light so that when I have it on, my brain still thinks it's dark and will start producing melatonin. So all it means is when I the sun goes down, I wear these. It just means I'm going to go to sleep a lot easier. I'm going to get into a deeper sleep and then when I wake up in the morning, I'm going to feel a lot more refreshed and be at a high performance. So how many hours before sleep do you start wearing these uh these glasses? Good question. Um, it's actually when the sun goes down. So, I'm I'm trying to mimic nature, right? So, when the sun goes down, it it should be dark everywhere, you know? So, that's when I put it on to mimic nature. If And actually another way of doing it, like it's only artificial lights that disrupt your melatonin production. Say if I just had candles all over my house and I wasn't looking at my phone and I wasn't looking at my um screen, computer screen, and I didn't have an artificial light to just use candles. Candles would be fine. They wouldn't cause a problem with my melatonin times. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just these artificial stuff. So that's why I put put the glasses on. Okay. So do you do you sleep a lot better with it? And you Hell yeah, man. Hell yeah, man. Like, dude, you need to try some, bro. Yeah, man. Is the same like blue blockers? Is it the same? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Another brand. Yeah. Has some blue blockers and you know, maybe I'll steal them from him. But I don't have AI don't have a problem like going to sleep. So, to me or Yeah. It's not It's If you have a problem going to sleep, this will definitely help. Okay. But if you even if you don't have a problem getting to sleep, like for sure you're going to get to sleep for sure you're going to be into a deeper sleep and you're going to have more antioxidants running through your bloodstream than if you didn't wear them or if you didn't avoid artificial light. So it means that over time you would have a even you Brandon even you would have a higher level of testosterone bro. No, that's dangerous though. You're not allowed to do that. That's safe. They probably like put you remember when they got ET out the house and they were like had them like quarantined and half that's probably what would have happened like nah it's too much of the world. I actually eat melatonin right you have the official you told me that the other day you told me in Vegas that I was going to die from that and cancer. So is that true? Okay. You know what the the cancer thing there might be some there might actually be some science backing that up. Now what what what we mean is now I'm not trying to say that the melatonin pills that you're taking cause cancer. No. But the melatonin that your brain produces is a potent antioxidant and they know fighting cancer. Yeah. And from what I understand is that this the um synthetic version doesn't have the same antioxidant capacities as your own natural production. Uh, and when I take it, it shuts down my natural production. Yes. So, which is better, which is more effective than the I saying. Exactly. Exactly. Brian was saying the same [\h__\h] too. You saying I was going to die because of it because my brain was gonna stop making it. And I was like, well, I don't need to make it because I take it, right? It's a bit like It's a bit like steroids, right? It's a bit like steroids, right? So, if you inject steroids, you're taking steroids. You're putting um testosterone, an artificial testosterone hormone into your body. Okay? So if you start doing that after a couple of weeks, your balls are going to shrink. Like why? Why is that? Oh, because of your testosterone production has shut down. Yeah. Your your natural testosterone production has shut down. All right. And then you come off the steroids and then your natural testosterone tries to come back. It takes a few could take a few weeks, could take a few months to get back to its normal state. And you might not be as responsive to um your body may not build muscle as fast as it did before because it was used to such a high level to stimulate muscle growth before when you was putting the artificial stuff in. So when your natural stuff comes in, it ain't up ain't up to like the level it was at with the synthetic stuff. So your body just doesn't respond as well. Uh so what you're doing is you're trying to optimize natural uh melatonin the same way I try to ma optimize natural testosterone. You're doing the same is the the glasses are a way to optimize your natural hormones basically. Exactly bro. Exactly. Yeah. Got you. I got you. I mean what other hacks and tips and tricks you got besides the glasses at night? Okay. So I've got a lot of tips and tricks especially around eating um training just like you man. I know you're big into you teach me a lot about training actually but training eating yeah I hope that I teach you a few things about eating but different philosophies on the whole that's true philosophies I don't know if we want to open that can of worms no we don't because I know you I know you got a coaching calling soon so um but yeah I teach a lot about training eating and also mindset you know if you're interested in any of this I believe there's going to be a link by this video that you can click and you'll get a free free training videos um free training seminar videos if you like training videos on like how to be in high performance with your eating with your training also with your mindset but I'll get into the mindset tip real quick so um I'm actually here right now in Claremont California at the Ducker School of Business and I actually study positive psychology here and positive psychology is about human flourishing like how do we get it's a scientific study of like how do become our best, you know, whether it's organizations or individually. How do we hit high performance every day? So, one of the one of the big things I talk about is flow. How do we get in the zone, a state of flow? Other ones are like how how to get motivated, how to be confident, how to be confident at all times. Um, but but today I wanted to talk about a real simple tip just because it's it's on my mind because someone asked me on Periscope. Um, following me on Periscope, Mark Dharma, D H A M M A. But someone was asking me yesterday on Periscope, um, Mark, how do you stop your mind from like focusing on the negative? Okay. How do you, you know, how do you stop it from just moving to the negative? So like as you know Brandon all times in our life you know there's a million things we could focus on right we can focus on what's going right we can go focus on what's going wrong we can focus on neutral things like the TV you know we can focus on different things at any one time now how we feel a big part of how we feel is what we choose to focus on okay so for example I woke up this morning had to get up early to travel to grad school from Hollywood would and I could have been in a stinking mood cuz I could be focusing on the fact that I had to wake up early and I didn't get much sleep, right? And oh man, I could have done with another two hours sleep, you know, um I've got a rush, got traffic in LA, I could be focusing on all these negative things that are going to make me feel a certain way and they're all going to make me feel pretty shitty, you know? But the tip I give, and this is straight out of positive psychology, this isn't any woo woo [\h__\h] Like we've done scientific studies on this. If you really want to focus, if you want to move your mindset from a default of being negative and not feeling so good, you know, if you're feeling down or depressed a lot, if you want to move it to more like positive and like go-getter, you know, like achiever and high performance, then a simple tip is this. Every day when you wake up in the morning, write down five things you can be grateful for. Five things you can be grateful for. So I'll take myself for example. I woke up. I could be thinking about waking up early and like how tired I feel and got rushed to school, but I quickly woke up and then wrote down five things I'm grateful for. You know what? I'm grateful that I woke up this morning because a lot of people didn't wake up today. You know, you know what? I'm grateful that I I have a higher education. you know, I can go and get a master's degree and learn at like one of the top schools in the world, you know, and not everyone has access to that at all. You know, it's not cheap. Not everyone has access to that. You know, I'm grateful that I woke up and I had some fantastic food this morning. Not everybody's going to wake up today and have something to eat, especially not like the high quality food that I get. You know, I'm grateful to have a car, so I can drive there no problem. A lot of people don't have a car. And I'm grateful to be on this conversation with you today, Brandon, you know. talking to a buyer. No, you're welcome, dude. I'm glad I improve your day, dude. I'm I'm sincerely grateful to have people like you in my life. To have friends like you in my life makes my life what it is today. And it's fantastic. And a huge percentage is down to people like you, man. I'll be straight up, man. Like the whole your whole you become who about the people you're around, you know? So, I only I only [\h__\h] with winners, you know? You know what I'm saying? That's how we we this is like our fourth video together, right? Yeah, I think so. My third or fourth. Listen, I I had vowed not to do any videos with you anymore because I said the last cardio workout. Remember, I sent you a screenshot of the [\h__\h] chicks saying, "Who's that?" I'm like, "No, all right. It's done. Not doing this no more. I don't think I've recovered from the dying roach. That joint goes off. I grateful today, but I was gi I'm try to ask I'm grateful for uh I'll be out here balling. Um I'm getting this money. Um my pockets is on swole. Um my bank accounts is is is is on swole. Uh and I'm out here balding. Did I say it already? These are things I'm grateful for. These are the things I think that make me happy. Respect, bro. Respect, bro. I used to have nothing. I used to have nothing. Now I got a whole lot of everything. That's true. And how do you feel about that? Yeah, man. So, I don't take it for granted, man. Right. All right. So, listen. What happens when they click that link below? You you've given out like free motivation. You're going to get a free video training series on high performance health and mindset. That's it. A free video training series. is I'm going to teach you how to eat for high performance. I'm going to tell you how to train for high performance, including a 4se secondond secret training tip, which is going to build more muscle and burn more fat in like less time. And then you're also going to get some You're right. You want I know you want that. And then you're going to have some mindset trips like straight out of positive psychology. I think I bring something in from NLP, neural linguistic programming, too, just so that you can be more motivated and more even more motivated, even more confident and at your best and learn from some of the, you know, I teach multi-millionaires this stuff and you can get it for free by clicking the link below. No, I'm for real, man. like the people like just just like you guys should click the link, check mark [\h__\h] out because like the people he coaches, you know, like just just just the ones you know, you YouTubers, you know, I know you know Tai Lopez, I know you know uh Tyler RSD, like they they hire him as coaches, you like for it's not for no reason, man, because he knows what he's talking about. He's good at what he does, man. So anyway, I appreciate you taking some time out to to talk to talk to me and my fans, Mark. I appreciate it. For sure, bro. anything for you, man. All right, man. Yo, you are you going to Are you going to be in Vegas next month? Are you going to the Olympia? Um, no. I will not be going to Olympia. I know you're going to be there. I know you're going to be like hanging out, speaking to people, speaking fans. You're going to be showing what some of the awesome new products that you've got out. You know, you're going to be hanging around. You're going to be flexing a little bit. A little bit. I might flex. All right. I'm known to do that. I definitely ain't going then. There's no way I'm I'm turning up if you're flexing. But I'll be in LA uh later the top of next month. So we'll hang out, man. We'll do some [\h__\h] Yeah, dude. Come come come and stay at my place if you want. You let me know. A You're too kind. You're too kind. I might need my Listen, I might need private. Got it. Here. I know how you roll, bro. I highlight you, man. All right then, bro.