So, Greg Gallagher wants to get his ass kicked now, and that's cool. I can help him with that. Uh, here's the thing. Greg challenged me. He challenged me to a boxing match because he made a video on the ketogenic diet that was just so wrong. It was full of inaccuracies. Keto and low carbs are not the exact same thing. All right? They're different. and his experience with low carbs is not keto. And I posted a ton of evidence, scientific evidence, scientific studies to just disprove his points or just to show him that he was it was inaccurate because Greg's popular, man. He's, you know, he has a lot of influence. And most of the time he uses that influence for good. This time he's just inaccurate. And I I didn't like him spreading misinformation. So, I just wanted to correct it. And then I challenged him to a debate about it. and he didn't want to debate. He wanted to fight in boxing because he was butt hurt and his rich parents had him in boxing classes since he was a kid, right? So, he was he's really good at boxing. He's like skilled, right? And he Greg is a good dude and he gives a lot of good information. That's why when he had under a 100,000 subscribers, I was the only YouTuber I was the only big YouTuber who was collabing with him. At that time, I had like 400,000 subscribers and I was giving a kid with less than a 100,000 tons of love. I put him in a bunch of videos. Remember, he had all the videos when people were accusing him, lying about him, saying he was on roids. Uh, remember when all the vegans were making fun of him, and making videos about him? Who defended him? Me. I made a video defending him. I was the only one who came to help him. I was the only one. And I correct him once and then he wants to fight. He wants to fight the only one, the only YouTuber who ever had his back. Who had his back but me? Nobody. Now he wants to fight me. Well, guess what? Guess what, you little spoiled brat, little entitled prick. You want You always get what you want cuz you're a rich kid. You always got what you want. Now you going to get what you want. You going to get what you asked for. You going to catch this fade. I didn't want to be like, hopefully we can go back to being friends after I knocked some [\h__\h] sense in you. Here's the thing. I'm not even a good boxer. Your rich parents had you training boxing your whole life. So, you got the advantage. That's why he picked it. That's why he picked it. He left comments talking about how he was mad that Conor Murphy replaced him. I'm like, what does that even mean? What does that mean? So, I ignored that. Then he left another comment saying, "You going to respond or what?" And then he sent all his fans to talk [\h__\h] He said, "Let's box." Because you've been training in boxing his whole life. I haven't been training. You're a better boxer than me. I give you to a better boxer than me. That's why I got Mike Rasheed training me. Yeah. Mike Rasheed's going to train me. And if you want to see me training, training the whooped, red, rich, spoiled, entitled ass, then you subscribe to my my other channel, my vlog channel. I'm going to be putting all the training there. I do a daily vlog every day. You'll see all my training every day me getting ready to whoop his ass. He thinks he's tough. He thinks he's he's a good boxer, but there's a difference between punching a mannequin in front of your mom's house and boxing a real person. So, Mike Rasheed is going to train me. He's actually boxed real people before. He's like a real boxer. He's actually like really good. He's not just pretending to be good by punching a mannequin in front of mommy's house. He's going to train me and I'mma [\h__\h] you up and then hopefully we can go back to being friends again. Hopefully go back and be friends again once I knock some [\h__\h] sense into you. So right now I'm in beautiful Australia. Beautiful Australia. Having tons of fun. You can see the footage from my Australia trip on the vlog channel. Victory vlogs. Vlog every day. Subscribe to that joint. Once I get back from Paradise, I'm going come back to New York. We're going to set up the fight amateur style boxing. We're going to set up. It's three rounds. I'mma set it up. We're going to post it on YouTube. Kino vers keto. Kino vers keto. That's the fight. It's going down. Nobody showed you no love when you was first starting out. You on YouTube for years, years. And I was the first YouTuber with a substantial audience that showed you some love. You bite the hand that feeds you. All right, man. Well, here it is. You going to get it. You gonna catch this fade. I came from nothing, man. You had the best trainers, the best upbringing, and you've been you've been trained as a fighter your whole life. You're better than me at fighting, but because I'm more resilient than you. I had to go through more stuff than you. I had to fight for everything I had. So, I don't mind getting training. And can if I beat you in this fight, bro, after your rich parents spent tens of thousands of dollars training you to be a fighter, then you really [\h__\h] suck. I'm going have one trainer, Mike Rasheed, and I'm going [\h__\h] you up, man. And then hopefully we go back to your friends. Greg is not a bad person. His programs are good. I mean that. That's not sarcastic. He's a good dude. He knows his fitness. I like him as a person. Uh, but he's just a entitled spoiled brat and he needs to get put in his place and I'm going to do that for the world. All right. Start working on your defense, man. That mannequin don't punch back.