Yo, what up? What up? It's your man be Brandon Carter. Uh, I'm going to give you all a quick real quick like success principle. Uh, I've had to explain this a lot to people after I've been doing like some online coaching, some life coaching, helping people uh, accomplish their goals. But this is this has come up a lot. So, I want to go over it with you. Like a lot of people have a bunch of ideas. Let me show you what happens. Let's say you got four ideas to make money. All right? So you got idea A, B, C, and D. My handwriting is crazy, but don't worry about it. So let's say All right. So let's say week one. Week one, you're working on project A, B, you're working on project C, and you're working on project D. Right? Then week two, you're working on project A, B, C, and D. Then week three, you're also working on project A, B, C, D. Week four, you finally finished project A, project B, project C, and D. Now you can finally start making money right after 4 weeks. Don't do this. This is how most people do it. They work on a bunch of at a time and it ends up like this. If they ever get everything done, then they start making money, right? This is how you should do it. So week one, bam, you're working on project A, project A, project A, project A. Then you finish project A. Now you start making money. And then week two, you're working on project B, project B, project B, project B. Now you start making money. Week two, week three, you you working on project C, project C, project C, project C. Then you start making money off project C. Then we are product D on week four and you're making money off this. So you've been making money the whole time. With the other example, you didn't start making money to the end. You left 3 weeks of money on the table. You understand what I'm saying? So you want to work on one project at a time and work on it to completion. Especially if it's a money-making project, then you'll then you'll start making money. Right? If you're working on a bunch of at the same time that doesn't make money, I mean that makes money, you won't make money till they're all done. But if you make one thing at a time, then you make money. Then you move on the next one. Start. Yeah. Now you're making money while you're working on the next project. Hope that makes sense. Just real quick little lesson. Seems like hopefully that helps a lot of people. All right. Peace.