Yo, what up? It's your man Brandon Carter. I'm out here with uh the homie Grego Gallagher. Man, he just taught me how to use this Google Hangout thing. Apparently, I can use it for more than just Q&A to do an interview. What up, Gregory? What's going on, dude? Hey, dude. I'm really sorry it took me so long to be able to come on the podcast. I know you're emailing me for a long time trying to get me on. It's been busy. you know, a lot of stuff's happening, but you know, I I had a couple minutes to spare, so here I am. Thanks. You know, they actually um you just gave the news. They don't Nobody knows this going to be a podcast yet, you know, like they don't doing a podcast. You're [\h__\h] Oh, you met George. You got a cat in the house. Yeah. George, meet Gregory. What's up, George? What's up? I like doesn't understand how the internet works, Greg. So, he thinks I'm talking to him. That's why he came over here. Oh, really? Obedient to a fault. No, that's not a cat. I might be doing most of this with a cat on my lap, if you don't mind. That's fine. That's I wish I had my cat in here. But that's why you do have a cat. I ain't never seen that [\h__\h] Yeah. Well, when he wants to be seen, he's seen. When he doesn't want to be seen, he's not seen. I like it. I like it. I like it. That's why cats are [\h__\h] cool, man. Dogs are spazzes. You gotta [\h__\h] walk them and pick up the [\h__\h] and they're like they're paining ass. Cats are just chill, man. Cats are Yeah, cats show. It's either Yeah. Hey, man. So, listen, you do a lot of intermittent fasting. This is how we met. Like, how we met, we we were friends now, right? But how we met was like all my my I kept getting messages, hey, check out uh Greg O Gallagher from Kino Body. I was like, who the [\h__\h] is this? You know, I checked you out. I was like, oh, I see why. Because you do a lot of intermittent fasting. I mean, you're big on that that protocol, right? But it's a joke. What did you I couldn't hear. I couldn't hear. I couldn't hear the Grinder. Oh, the Grinder. And he was like, "Oh man, I know Greg from Grinder." Oh, Greg Oallander. We used to call him Greg Greg Grinder back 14 and eight. He's known as Greg and Grinder. Greg, Greg Grinder. No, no, no. That was a joke in poor taste. Yeah. No, we met we met like Yeah. with our fans were into intermittent fasting and we both did it and they kind of it kind of brought us together. They're like you two need to unite. Yeah. Yeah. And um Oh, but I feel like a lot of the I feel like a lot of YouTube guys like and you're not like this at all, but a lot of YouTube guys that have the 100, 200, 300,000 subscribers, they're on like some high horse. You know what I mean? Oh yeah. Yeah, it is. On the high horse and like look at this guy with 25,000 subscribers. Yeah. You think about it like that? What was that? I'll do a video with anyone, man. Like I'll do a video. I prefer to do someone with like like I I got a different kind of ego. Like I don't want to do a video with people who would hire, right, with better followings than me because uh I don't want I want to feel like, hey, I'm I made these other [\h__\h] I don't want no one to say they got pop I got popular because of them. So that's my weird ego complex kind of thing. I know. I hear that, man. Well, I I've actually had like circumstances happen where I reached out to some of these big guys in the past. I was like, you know what? It'd be fun to kind of collab and stuff and um and uh some were like close to my level or just a bit above and then they kind of just snubbed me off and then now my channel's like growing way faster. And so I actually I actually had one guy like, "Hey dude, you still want to do that podcast?" I'm like, "No, I don't." [\h__\h] that guy, man. Yeah. What's his name? Say his name. No, we'll leave the names out. We'll leave the names out. I'll tell you after. Off the record. Off the record. Yeah. Oh, was this Oh, [\h__\h] All right. Yeah, man. But um Yeah, I haven't I like I don't I don't even reach out to like I was like it was only like when people I Yeah, I do video with anyone, you know? I don't give a [\h__\h] you know, if it's convenient and it works. This is the first remote video I did. Uh, now I've done one with the dude, um, Bruce V, the pick pickup artist, you know, pick up PO. Sounds familiar because I've watched some of those videos. Roo V, uh, we did a video on how to how to meet girls in the gym and he kind of talked he he like recorded his [\h__\h] wherever he was at in Europe and I like like made scenes to act out like how to meet girls in like I loop. So that that kind of worked. In any event, man, he he he went with it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was fun. He was he was he was more than happy, dude. He's he's cool. Cool guy. Let me ask you a question. How long you been intermittent fasting? How long I've been been intermittent fasting? Well, since last night. I mean, like that's when you began. Yeah. When have I began? I've been fasting for about five years. I I um you know, it's 2010 2011. I started doing like the fasting a couple times a week in 2010. And then like the the the the 24-hour fast. Yeah, I did the 24-hour fast, but I I eventually I was like, you know what? I don't love doing these 24-hour fasts. They kind of suck. And then only doing it once twice a week. It didn't I didn't focus on my like daily eating habits. And then 2011, I started doing the daily stuff where I have my first meal late in the day. That was in 2011. So 11 probably half of 11. like I mean 12 13 14 15 you know four and a half years I'd say. Four and a half years. I've been doing it for about maybe a little over two years now. Yeah. I actually stopped this week. Okay. I'm trying something different. I'm trying a different thing. It's a different like real experimental crazy [\h__\h] I don't I don't even feel comfortable telling anyone what I'm doing now. You don't? I'm just running experiment. But I know intermittent fasting works best for me. Even like to put on m to stay lean to get lean to stay lean and definitely to put on muscle. No, I mean definitely to stay lean but I I put on muscle. You've been able to build muscle with it as well. Yeah. No, I I have I found it like it's never been an issue. But if someone like is has a small appetite and they fast and they can only eat 1,200 calories a day, they're not going to be able to build muscle. You need to get in enough food. That's not been that hasn't been an issue for me. I've always been able to eat even if it's in like a couple meals. I can be the, you know, e I can easily eat 3,000 calories a day without trying hard. Even if I only have two meals a day, it's not for me. Do you you do that the lean gains 8 816 protocol? Okay. Like Yeah. Well, here let's just talk about basically what my difference between Lean Gains and Kenobi because that would be quite interesting, right? Yeah. Kenobody, just so you don't know, Kino Greg's Greg's protocol is called Kino Body, right? Or that's Kino Body. Yeah. And you can go online. you want to check it out, I put a link in the description. It's kinobody and you can check it out, you know. But make sure you put that slashbrandon in there because uh I said so.combrandon. It's kind of it's more relevant for the listeners on this podcast. Yeah, you kind of tie it. Yeah. So that works too. So, um I guess you know Martin Burkhan was one of the figures that kind of really brought intermittent fasting to light. He wasn't the first. There's other people. Um he was he was kind of one of the main kind of you know fitness bodybuing a lot of those myths you know about only absorb this much protein fasting causes muscle loss you know fasting slows down the metabolism you know um so forth. He busted all these myths with research and he did a really good job of doing it. And so my approach is actually quite different than his because I did his approach in about end of 2011 2012 and it wasn't nearly as good as what I'm doing now. I found it actually kind of I found it it actually it didn't give me the liberation I was looking for and also I had a hard time leaning down on it and and so yeah know I had a really hard time I actually wasn't able to break down beyond 11% body fat with this approach. That was my experience and and that was because um a few things but um one of them is that you know Burkhan was kind of recommending going really high calories on your training days. So if you're working out three days a week you go really really high in calories. In order to make that work on a fat loss plan you have to compensate and go really low calories in your rest days. And going into a big deficit is not that fun. Having to eat 1600 calories a day sucks. So having to oscillate between these huge calorie the huge high calorie days and then the lower calorie days it just it made the whole whole journey really slow and plus when you give yourself the 2800 calories or 2600 calories then you almost adapt to eating more. You don't want to go down to a lower calorie day. So it's kind of like spinning my wheels. Um whereas when I find I would rather stick to a consistent lower calorie intake that's kind of on the moderate level because then you would you kind of get used to eating that that intake. your appetite kind of falls into place and it's so much easier to stick to than just every, you know, training day going up higher in calories. Um, but also he kind of really recommended um he was big on going really low in carbs on your rest days and then really low in fat on your training days. And um all the research is quite clear that you know fats and carbs are both important for various reasons. And so, um, but more on a behavioral standpoint, like having to go really low fat on a training day brings in a lot of hunger for me and a lot of people. So, if you're only able to eat 40 grams of fat, then you're just eating chicken breast and rice and potatoes with no butter. So, it's not that fun. And so, I found that I was raving this on my training days. Even though I was taking in 2,600 calories, 2,800 calories, I just didn't have the fat there to satisfy me because fat is really uh imperative in suppressing hunger and hormonal functioning. And then on the training days, I just wouldn't feel that satisfied after eating as well because I just wanted to have those carbs. I wanted to release that serotonin. And when you go and do 100 grams of carbs, for me at least, um because I'm someone that thrives off a good balance of fats and carbs, um so when I did the low carb train days, it just I don't know, it wasn't it wasn't that fun. Um, and so there there's those rules and also sticking to like I think people get too glued into this exact window. It's like, okay, it's 1:00. I got to break my fast. Oh my god, I have to have my last meal at 9:00 p.m. Have it 10 minutes after. I'm not going to be able to do the the 16 hour fast. And so, um, from my experience, the benefits of fasting come from simply just pushing that first meal later into the day. The benefits of fasting come from literally just holding off on breakfast. Because when you eat breakfast, I think a lot of people experience this, um, but they'll get hungry an hour later. um they eat the morning breakfast, their cortisol levels are really high in the morning. Um the way insulin from eating interacts with cortisol is it causes that spike in blood sugar and then the blood sugar comes down and then you start to get some hunger and cravings. So I find just the the main thing with fasting is pushing that first meal later into the day um blunting hunger, getting the boost in growth hormone, getting all these benefits from being in that fasted state and then hit your calories and macros however you want to. Maybe you do a 14- hour fast because you eat really late at night that day. Maybe you do an 18 hour fast. It can be flexible. I think when you have that flexible attitude, it works so much better than if you try and rigidly force yourself to I have to break I have to break fast at 1. I have to have my last meal at nine. You know, keep it keep it loose. Um and those were kind of I guess some of the main differences as well. Um uh Martin really recommends a super high um protein intake, you know, really high. Like someone that's 180 would be taken in 250 grams of protein on his program, which is kind of absurd. It's far more than you need. And the problem is when you eat that much protein, you got to go either low in fat, low in carbs, and that tends to mess up with testosterone because fat and carbs are the macronutrients that are most important in testosterone function. If you look at the research, lowfat diets suppress testosterone. Lower carb diets suppress testosterone. Um, so I my recommendation is just to hit optimal protein. You know, maybe a gram per pound of body weight, but you could go down to even lower point8. And then fill up your diet with a balance of fats and carbs. Um, that has made dieting so much easier for me. See, like I I uh Sorry for that long-winded answer. Oh, no. Hey, man. This is this you're that's why you're here. You're here to talk, man. They hear me talk all the time, you know? Like I do a lot of like I I I do a lot of stuff where he he talks about except for I train about I train about [\h__\h] me I train about five days five to six days a week. So like every day I'm pretty much I do resistance training about five six days a week. But I've been doing it for a long time. So like I can handle that kind of volume. And so like I just keep I keep I do keep my my carbs high on a training day. But I don't keep my fats low like he said. But I do a lot more protein than you. I do a lot like you know every time I say how much protein I I aim for if I if I don't really count I don't do a lot of counting macros because I have a different I have a different protocol. But it works for me. You know like I know you you you take meticulous count. No, no, I I don't, dude. I don't I I was pretty meticulous for a while, but that's how we talk you were, bro. No, the last year I've been very super chill. I've been super chill with my macros. Like yesterday, like I I don't even I don't even really have an exact idea of what I'm taking in as far as macros. Um I try and Do you write down you eat though? Do you write everything down? You keep a log? uh I used to for years but now I don't need to anymore because I it's really easy for me to stick to my setup and my setup as far as the way my diet goes down typically depends how active if I am if I'm not that active just you know walking for an hour a day or doing like a you know 45 minute lift then usually what I'll do is I'll just you know fast drink coffee in the afternoon when I get hungry I'll have a bit of fruit I'll eat black coffee right what was that black coffee yeah no I do no I do white coffee in Toronto. Toronto white. Oh, you're Canadian. Lily, I don't know. Greg is Canadian. Yeah. You notice any like anything weird or strange about him? That's just the Canada the Canada though. I I've been told by my Canadian um habitat habit habit habit habit. [\h__\h] me. Okay. I've been told by Canadian, you know, people and friends that I don't sound Canadian. I heard you say something like uh a boot or something like that. You know, every once in a while like it kind of like sneaks out every once in a while like jumps out like no. Yeah. Sneaks out and then like you're like kill a beaver for no reason. I'm like what? Oh, that's right. He's from Canada. You guys are like wow. We're going out tonight. You know about you guys really emphasize the out. It's like you don't have to put so much work into that. Just say out. Let's say work out. You don't have to say work out. How you say? Let me tell. Teach me. Teach me how you say work. Work out, dude. We're gonna work out, man. Yeah. Work out. Work work. Hold on. I'm do I'm doing I'm about to work work. All right, enough about that. Enough about it. I I'll learn Canadian later. It brings up the intensity when you learn the Canadian way about working out. Work out sounds way more badass than we're going to work out. I never said it like that. No, you do. You do. Yo. All right, guys. Let's talk about fasting, man. I don't want to start a goddamn war between between your countries, man. for allies. Yeah. Allies, man. Look, what kind of results have you seen yourself with with your with your protocol of fasting? Like, how what kind of results have you achieved? I know I've seen that video, the intro video on your site, man. You're pretty [\h__\h] You're pretty [\h__\h] strong. You're only 24. Uh I'll be 20 I'll be 24 in about 10 years. Yeah, you're pretty [\h__\h] strong, man. Yeah. No, I'm turning 24. Um, what fasting has given me is it just it's made it it's made it just so easy to stay lean with the approach that I'm doing. You know, I'm able to I I was never able to stay below 10% body fat and feel great. It was always this massive struggle. I'm someone that just loves food and so fasting just makes allows me to be able to um experience hedonism, be able to eat out and love life. And last night I went out had ribs and French fries and oldfashions and a chocolate bar and I hit undermaintenance. I did about 2450 in that day. It burned probably 2,600. So I'm able to wait. How do you count that? How do you Let me Let me ask Oh, I I I eyeball it now. Like I You [\h__\h] guess. Also, I went to the keg and they have the nutrition information online. So, I kind of had an idea, but at the end of the day, I just eyeball it. And what people don't realize is, you know, it's not that hard to like not go into huge. if you're eyeballing it, you know, it it's pretty easy to be in the ballpark of where you need to be. Like it's if you're like cutting out all the snacking that people usually do because people don't realize like if they're not tracking stuff, a lot of times they walk by the kitchen, they grab like some chips and like literally they eat like 10 times a day and all these little snacks and stuff add up. But if you just kind of break away from that, you fast, you eat two big meals a day, one little smaller meal. I mean, it's so easy to be in a deficit. You don't have to track everything exactly. Oh, it's 700 calories. It's 950. You really don't. Just kind of be in the eyeball. And all I think would really help me a lot is um just almost even if I was going above my calories, just kind of find that satisfaction point. So, I'll make sure that every day I'm satisfied on my diet. If I need to go higher, I'll go higher. If I need to if I don't need to go high at all, I'll go lower. I listen to my body because I don't want to endure a day when I'm not satisfied. Do you like you do more of like the warrior like the warrior diet kind of like you you might start with something light before your first meal though, right? Uh you know, so the warrior diet's kind of like you know it's kind of like it wasn't really fasting um depending on how you did it. It was like you know um have some fruit juice in the morning like juice this have an apple have some kefir. Have some eating like light and then eating heavy. I don't do that [\h__\h] Like for me I I just fast for a long time. If I wake up at 10, I'll fast to whatever, four. I'll have a piece of fruit or two, apple, banana, and then at six, seven, six or seven or eight, I'll have a huge meal and then I'll have like some dessert or small meal at night. When you train in that in that protocol usually either before I have some fruit or before my first meal like I like to train relatively on an empty stomach. Yeah, I I train I but see I do I do the lean gains where I what I take from lean gains I take the BCAAsand for I know you don't take any supplements but I like taking I take BCA's uh 10 grams before training and uh and then I'll probably also take some um some Rebellion preworkout you know because this [\h__\h] go this is the best [\h__\h] I've ever tasted as far as workout performance taste concern ain't nothing really [\h__\h] with Rebellion you take that with some with with some BCAAs and then I'm I'm good and then I eat and then I then I just and then I then I I break my fast really after that after that training session and then I just I'll eat I pretty much just go ham, man. It's kind of hard. I find it hard to be in a surplus. Sound like you have a healthier appetite than me. I find it hard to eat enough to be in a surplus even when I'm doing intermittent fasting. Really? Me too. Yeah. I mean, I'll probably just stay in a deficit the whole time. Like like if I if I I'd have to try like you can tell when I'm bulking because I'm like eating as much as I can and then I'm I might be like I I know you don't take any supplements, but I'll I'll I'll put I'll take protein shakes sometimes even with the meal protein shakes and add coconut oil to this [\h__\h] just to get extra calories like two teaspoons. You know, I'm not I'm not like adamantly against supplements. I just don't take what you're adamantly what I'm not adamantly against supplements. I don't think there's anything. What's that word? Adamant. No, after that against against. Oh, all right. Okay. Oh, yeah. Translator for us, too. I'm not adamantly against supplements. Um, I just don't take them. I think they're fine if they're used for the right purposes. Um, but I don't think there's they're like the most important thing in life. No, they're not. Train. Diet is the most important thing. Yeah. training. I always tell people man is the order the hierarchy. Yeah. Diet. No missed it. Sex dieting. So sex diet training and then uh then supplements. Like supplements just supplement everything else you're doing. Like if you if your diet's not right, don't even [\h__\h] work out. Don't like I don't even want don't even start that. Get your diet right first. And if and then once your diet and training is up to par then you can start thinking about supplements. I think but people's perception but people's perception of what a good diet is diet is is kind of like wrong. Like oh my diet's been so good. I had egg whites in the morning and oatmeal and then chicken and broccoli and and and brown rice and almonds and then I had, you know, this and that and quinoa and, you know, and stuff like that. It's like, okay, but how much did you get in? Yeah. Wait, so you're trying to lean down? You're trying to lean. Okay. Yeah. People are like so focused on like what they ate. They don't know what they're talking about. Yeah. They say like, "Oh, I eat good. I ate healthy." And I'm like, "Yo, that's like It's kind of like an arbitrary term. It's like really like you get what you needed to get." Oh, my fault. I didn't put my throne on no salad and don't even trip though. And um I'm like it's like really more like depending on your goals that might not have been healthy. You know, like even if it's like healthy food, you know what I'm saying? Exactly. So you could have someone that's trying to lose fat that burns 2500 calories a day and then they ate 3,000 calories of, you know, in six meals of all these healthy healthy foods. I'm like, "Yeah, I'm doing so well. I'm like reaching my goals." It's like, dude, you're gaining a pound a week. Yeah. Yeah. You [\h__\h] up, bro. But then I could have a client that l that literally burns $2,500 calories a day and they have a hamburger and French fries for dinner, you know, a small meal. Um, like, you know, and then some fruit and they ate 2,000. And then people like, "Holy [\h__\h] you ate so unhealthy." Well, no, he hit his protein numbers. He hit his minimum, like his optimal protein numbers. He got a good amount of fat and carbs. He's satisfied because he ate food that he enjoys in big quantities, and he's going to kill it. Um, I ate I've ate burgers and ribs and [\h__\h] on a cut. Yeah. Like it was like the only thing I ate that day. But yeah, I've done I mean like it's like it depends. It's all It's about the intake, you know? It it is. Yeah. And you know, that's what you've talked about a lot of your videos, the calorie deficit. That's the only way to lose fat, man. But you don't like going low carbs, though. I do like going low carbs. Like Yeah. People are different. I mean, it comes down to something called insulin sensitivity, which some people talk about. And so people that are more insulin sensitive is I heard a lot about his book. You ever read this book? Oh, why we get fat by Gary Topps. Yeah. Okay. Actually, no. I have not read that book. You don't know what the [\h__\h] you're talking about, do you, Gregory? Dude, he's like one of the most lambasted people in the industry. I don't know what that word means, but I I don't know it either. Sounds It sounds right. I'mma take it as disrespect though. Okay. No. No, I [\h__\h] I know that I mean like but insulin you know you know you know insulin. Yeah. Well well my my thing with carbohydrates is well ultimately it's about the calorie deficit if fat loss is the goal and if you're in a 500 calorie deficit you take in 300 grams of carbs or 100 grams of carbs for sure fat loss will be the same. Um and you've seen the you cut you off the Twinkie diet. Oh Twinkie diet man. Have I have I done that? No. No. Have you seen it? Have you seen it? Like the study? I've heard of it. I haven't seen it in practice. This mother No, I haven't seen it in practice, but according to the study, this guy, he ate all this [\h__\h] um Twinkies and Oreos and protein shakes. Yeah. He lost weight because he was in a deficit. Well, so but here's the caveat. That's exactly true. Well, that's hard in practice because if we're going to make because it's it's not that easy to be in a deficit. You know, people we get hungry. We're like, "Oh, I want to eat." And then we then So, it's not that easy to be a diet. You want to structure your diet in a way keeps you as satisfied and as full as possible. People ask me like, Greg, like, you just eat whatever you want. It's like, no, I eat the foods that fill me the [\h__\h] up. I eat the foods that satisfy me. And that doesn't mean and and so actually, I don't even eat rice. I won't I will rarely, if ever, have rice because I know that me eating rice does nothing for me. If anything, it makes me hung up. But I will eat potatoes and pop chips and chocolate like crazy because that stuff satisfies me. Well, pop chips. Um, oh, you know, um, screw Pop Chips. They won't sponsor me, so No, I mean, if you go to It's like this chip brand, and they're not baked, they're not fried, they're popped, and they're really low calories, really filling, and the whole bag, which is makes like two big bowls, has 370 calories, and it just satisfies me really nicely. They got barbecue, original, like sea salt, like Yeah. Hey, you had me at barbecue. Oh, sweet potato, too. Sweeps on barbecue are incredible. All right. All right. Yo, does your girl do faster? Uh, I don't have a girl anymore. What happened? I seen her on the Instagram and Yeah, I know. I know. We recently decided to break up. Yeah. What happened? What happened? Let's talk about this later, man. Hey, man. Yo, wait. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Hold up. Hold up. I think I her What's her So, she's single, right? I remember her Instagram. You You don't mind. She she sees a black guy. Do you you know what I mean? No, I'm not racist. No. Good. That's good to know, man. Hey, listen listen listen listen listen. Yeah, you're right, man. She You can do better than that. You can do better than her. Go onhead and uh I'll do that after that. You're such a What about bros people? Didn't you invite That's what I'm saying. Bros before hoes, man. You gota You gota [\h__\h] You done with her. You're done with her, right? It's like That's like saying That's like lifting a barbell and be like, "All right, man." And I go I try to get a set and you say, "Nah, man. Nah, man. I This was my barbell. I I was just doing sets on this, man. Come on, man. Like bros before barbells." That's what you trying to say. Use my barbell after I finish. [\h__\h] that. What? I don't let people use the barbell. I'm forever. It's yours forever. I just finished I just finished my three sets. Let it marinate for 30 minutes. Okay. No, it's okay, man. I'm not gonna go all the way to Canada anyway. So, don't even trip. She's safe, man. She's safe, you know. All right. Hey, man. Your What happened, man? Like too much fasting. Uh their protocol. You know, things things are cool for a while and then things kind of drift. So, yeah. I don't know. This I don't Yeah, it's it's I don't know. I don't know. Like, it's Are you in Are you in a new house? No, the same house, man. Oh, okay. I thought you Damn. All right, man. Damn, son. I'm sorry. Hey. Hey. Listen, man. They everywhere. Don't even trip. Don't even trip. You're going to be in LA, right? Next weekend. Yeah. I I haven't booked, but I'm I'm going there. Oh, yeah, man. Because I I was telling the one girl that you was coming and you know she's a friend. So I was like don't even trip about it even better. Yeah. No, I don't know. I like I like I like I I've met some nice girls in Toronto. It's hard out. It's hard out there for me. The girls they don't like me in LA. I'm kidding. Oh give me all this reassurance. Don't worry, Greg. It's going to be okay. Like I'll get I got these girls for you. It's fine. You're okay. I'm like, dude, I [\h__\h] know. Hey, man. Hey, listen. Listen. I know like at that age, man, like at at at the age, early 20s, man, like this kind of thing can ruin you, man. I get emails from guys your age, they break up with their girlfriends and then they they they just they be in a funk, you know? I I don't want to see you go through this. No, I I get that because, you know, you get attacked by someone and it kind of, you know, it's like you lose part of you in a way. I'm losing my arm here, but like the way the way that I just um I just like you know what? Okay, what's all the awesome stuff that comes out of this? Okay, so now that I now that this is this is might be something cool to talk about people are going through breakups, but okay, now that this isn't in my life, so now that like this is out of my life right now, what are all the benefits, you know, that come from that? Okay, I have more time to spend on my business. I can meet other amazing girls that I might even think are more awesome. Um, travel might what? You might even think are or aren't Are are morons? No, I Where's our translator, Brandon? I thought Sorry, man. It's like I got to turn the volume on. Go ahead. No, it's cool. Um, I you know, okay, so like what are the benefits now that I'm single and not in this relationship? Okay, because people when they lose someone, all they see is all the amazing things they lost, right? Like, oh, this girl was so amazing. There's never going to be another girl like her. she had all this stuff like she and they put the girl on the pedestal and they create all this stress within themsel because they feel like they lost so much and like that's natural of course but at the same time you got to be like you know what what are the positives of this what are the benefits um okay I get to focus more time I have more time to focus on my business I get to build more independence like internally because when you're in a relationship like almost like you kind of rely on that person for a lot of like emotional support which I think is just natural but then you get to build more internal independent and security which is powerful and important. Um I think some people lose themselves a little bit in a relationship where they kind of you know they become so dependent on this person to fulfill them and that's not cool and that happens you know um may even maybe even happened a little bit to me not going to lie. Um, but so you get to build more of that internal independence. You get to like meet other new amazing girls. You get to have that novelty. Um, you get to have fun. Um, a lot of times relationships strange. Some strange some strange. Yeah, you get some strange some strange virginity. Yeah. Go ahead. That's an American term. Go ahead. Continue. I didn't mean to continue. What else? What else? Tell me about the I mean, there's a lot there there. I mean, a lot of times when you're dating a girl for, you know, that one year, two years, three years, it's like there's more conflict and fighting because it's past that novel stage and now you're starting to have like different tension, all this. And so, it's like you don't when you're single, it's like, okay, no more of the stress. Um, and I don't know, and sure, maybe you're listen losing all these amazing things, too, but you're also taking on all these great things. And if you kind of change your perspective and say and focus on all the good stuff that's happening now and focus on what you're doing amazing. Um then it's not as hard to kind of go through that loss. I think it's all where your attention is. You know, like uh when I was like 19, I broke up with this chick. What happened was she screamed on me in in Subway Sandwich Shop and I was like, "Nah, nah, son. I can't be around no chick who's [\h__\h] gonna raise her voice at me, man. All this [\h__\h] all a [\h__\h] need to say to me is please and thank you." All right. But anyway, she screamed on me and so like I'm done with this. But then I was kind of feeling like she was like my first real girlfriend, right? So like so what I did was I wrote So this is a little tactic for you. I wrote I wrote on a piece of paper I wrote like all the all the good things about all the all the reasons why it's good that we're not together. And then what on the other side I wrote all the things that were bad about the relationship. So I didn't idolize it. Sometimes we have a tendency to idolize the past and pretend and we forget about the bad stuff, right? So like every time I was I started feeling melancholy, I would break out that sheet of paper and just greet all like, "Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [\h__\h] that [\h__\h] and then I was Gucci." Like you gota keep reinforcing that until like your dominant thought is [\h__\h] her and you move on, you know? And it could be women can do this for guys too. Like I don't want to mean it sound as misog misogynistic as it was because I know I might I know I have one at least one female viewer and I don't want to like alienate her. I want her dude. the way you look. I'm sure you got tons of incredible women watching. Oh, hey, hey, hey. I don't know how to take Hey, listen, listen, listen. I know you're single now, but I'm not sexy dude. Okay. You know, you're sexy guy. I'm not going to lie. I'm not scared to admit it. I'm comfortable my sexuality. Listen, I appreciate that. All right. And uh No, no, no. Girls find me um I don't know. The thing the thing with me is like you seem to be more in touch with your feelings and [\h__\h] you know? Like so like I don't know how to talk to like women like I mean I know how to talk to him but not to talk to them and make them like a fan, you know? Like guys our age like within our well and and demographic like all like you look at my YouTube things like all my is how to connect and reach to women on a YouTube level. No, not on a YouTube level. I know I know how to do it on a on a drunk in the bar level, drunk in the club level, but not on a not on a YouTube, not not to the point to make want to be a fan. And I'm okay with that, you know, cuz I'm okay with that. I rather I rather us, you know, I rather talk to a certain person. No, I Well, my channel's the same, but a lot of my information is more geared towards or a lot of my marketing and stuff and the way I frame stuff is more talking to guys, but it's just kind of natural, you know. But you're gonna But even if you get like build a strong male following, you're going to reach out to some women. Yeah. I mean, there's at least seven uh females watch my videos. At least 100 something thousand subscribers. These seven women. Yeah. At least seven. I know. Um they comment and and they're cool, man. They're cool. They're obviously cool chicks. They're they I I don't They might be homosexuals and that's cool, too, man. Because I'm like I'm about equality. Or or or they're just regular chicks who just badass, you know? Maybe. Or maybe not not regular. I didn't mean to say regular. That's not derogatory. I mean, they might be heterosexual who are just badass. You know what I'm saying? Politically correct on us, Brandon. It's okay. You know, if someone's going to jump out and say, "What? Gays aren't regular." It's like, dude, calm down. He's not saying, "No, you Hey, listen. Breathing room. I got a bigger I got a bigger Listen, no disrespect to you. I just got I I I got a bigger sample size of the population. So like I I kind of know I got a better idea how these [\h__\h] respond, man. You got to preframe it. You gota like Yeah. I don't know. I I don't like the idea of having to kind of, you know, just filter everything you say and take it the wrong way. That's like politics. I hate that. I would not like I'm just be like, you know what? You're I mean, but you're kind of like that, too. You just you say [\h__\h] up [\h__\h] all the time. Yeah, I do. I do. I mean I mean but like uh there's no consistency there. You know I think with the with the with the gay my my uh I got a gay uncle who's like in like he's cool it's my [\h__\h] man, right? And uh I don't know. I just don't want to disrespect gay [\h__\h] because they they gay, right? It's like it's not it's funny but it's not like a reason to make fun of some I mean not reason to hate a person. You know what I'm saying? Or that' be derogatory to, you know, like But then again, I guess I do because I I won't I probably won't make a gay joke, but I'll make a a race joke, right? Easy. Like the fact like I might make a joke about how like I'm I'm your only black friend. Am I Are you my only black friend? Wow. Wow. Um yeah, I think I saw your house, man. I ain't I know ain't no [\h__\h] over there, man. No, I I I got black acquaintances is what I got. I got black and you know I I I Hey, actually when I was in grade when I was in grade two to four, we had one black kid in our grade and everyone was a racist. He had no friends except for me. I was his boy. We hung out all the time. A black friend. But his parents came up to me and they they they thanked me. They said, "You know what? We just want to tell you how much it means it means to um uh Ralphie that like you're like his friend and like this whole story is fake. I swear to God maybe in Canada maybe that is a Canadian name. It's AI don't know. Well American name would have been de Ralph Tres or something like that. Not Ralph. Canada is not like it doesn't have a huge like you know African Canadian community. It's more like Asian stuff. Oh African Canadian. That's right. Like about it's not like Drake's African Canadian. It's African Canadian. We don't have a huge African Canadian community, you know, because you guys don't like the cold. We're tropical people. We're tropical people. You know what I'm saying? Like we we um It's in our It's not our heritage, man. But back to the breakup, you know? So I don't like Oh, right. right. Yo, you Yo, listen. This is what we're gonna do in LA. We're gonna find you a black chick once. I'm down, dude. I'm down. You know what they say, man. Once you go black, you you never go back to your Does it work both ways? Does it work? What' you say? Does it work? You know, I' I've actually I've actually um you know, once you know, once you go white, you you go right back. I I've had some experiences with with black girls, I want to say. What was her name? I don't know. I don't remember. Oh, man. Now, now I don't know. Now, now it's like I was in LA though. When I was in LA, I met I met like a really really gorgeous um she would have been she might not have been like she I don't think she she was African, but she was like I don't know. She was she was some she was like, you know, but there there's so many I mean like [\h__\h] off, dude. She wasn't she wasn't African. All right, cool. I I believe I'm about to go into like Robert Downey Jr. Junior in Tropical Thunder. I believe she wasn't from Zimbabwe, man. I believe she wasn't Somal years where you've been held down. What's that that Tropical Thunder Robert Downey Jr.? What do you mean? Don't do Don't do this. Great. What? You make white boy Brian look like Bing Reigns. Yeah, I do. Huh? But it's okay. That's why I like you, man. That's all I diversity. my friend. Well, actually, back to what we were talking about earlier before we got sidetrack uh sidetracked. Um like as soon as like you know the breakup thing happens, man, it's important to get freaking like turn the switch on, man. And like people are like like they like watching like they just like sobbing and like, "Oh, I lost this. I'm so upset." It's like, dude, the best way to get over it is to go out to a bar and talk to new girls and meet new girls because you're not going to be missing your girlfriend when you're making out with a super hot chick. It doesn't happen. Yeah. No, no, you will. That's whether y'all break up or not. Whether you break up or not. But people, they get so stuck into this idea that like, oh, this was my match. This is my perfect person. They were so good like for me. I'm not going to fight anyone else that I'm going to be as into. It's like, no, you will. You you will. Yeah. Everywhere. There's more of them than us, right? There's more. There's Isn't there more in New York especially? Yeah. Every Oh, Toronto. Toronto's like Toronto's a cool There's some hot chicks in Toronto, man. There there are some really hot hot girls in Toronto. It's a great city, man. Like No, I like it looks like Chicago. Like it look like it looks like downtown Chicago. Like that's what I've been told. Similar size, similar population. Yeah. Except for like when you get to the south side of Chicago changes. Things change a little drastically. It changed drastically. Yeah. But anyway, I don't even So, you're single now, man. Let me ask you, the girls the girls have an issue with the fasting. Like think it's weird because I know like sometimes mine could be like dude like, "Oh, let's go eat brunch." I'm like, "Nah, look a lot of these a lot of these stunning girls that I meet that don't even like breakfast." Oh, a lot of girls don't like breakfast. Well, like I I I know quite a few girls that and I actually have a YouTube video I filmed in LA. I met this girl there and I was talking to her about she was asking these nutrition questions and I was talking to her like, "Yeah, dude. I'm going to fast you." She's like, "Oh my god, thank you so much for saying that. Like, I've never like eating breakfast. I don't eat breakfast. All nutritionists are telling me how to eat breakfast. When I eat breakfast, I get hungry." So, I actually meet a lot of girls that um that actually like if they find that eat breakfast, they get hungry. And they like this one girl I've been kind of seeing a bit um she like she like goes all day like she eats like twice a day and she when you're on cocaine you don't need to eat. What was that? You're on cocaine you don't need to eat. Oh no she doesn't she doesn't she Yeah. Yeah. No she doesn't do cocaine. But but yeah but that's some girls that like their breakfast. Making assumptions that see that maybe I was being racist. I know a white girl. She doesn't eat cocaine obviously. But that's me being racist. That's me. Like, you know, if a girl loves her breakfast, I don't care. It's like, yeah, fine. Eat your breakfast. I'll drink my coffee. She's like, no, you have to eat breakfast with me. You have to have brunch together. I'm like, [\h__\h] no. Why? This is a point of conflict in the relationship that I will not eat breakfast with you, then like Yeah, [\h__\h] it. You know, like, yeah, man. Listen, it's too life's too short to [\h__\h] But wait, you hang out with girls in the morning? What the Yeah, man. the kids up. What do you say? No. You know, my mornings are like, "Yo, my favorite thing about intermittent fasting is like, yo, I get I'm so much more productive in the morning time." Yeah. Like between like when I wake up, I drink coffee. Uh, and I just I go for it. Like I I kind of I go hard in the morning like I I stay I work I work for like about four hours straight, but I'll probably get more than that done in that four hours than most people get done in [\h__\h] 10 hours because I'm like I don't know. like seems like my mind is like and a lot of people report this when they start doing intermittent fasting. It's like the morning like after you get through that initial like groggginess like the first two weeks suck but then I guess I guess I don't know the science but your mind seems to acclimate to to to being in the uh low having not running off yeah there is a science to it and Hoffman talks about this in the warrior diet is so we operate on two different like nervous systems and when we're fasted and we adapt to that and being in like that that that fat burning state we're in the sympathetic nervous system which makes us alert focused energetic hunger blunting. Um, you know, you get the boost in adrenaline, so you're like, but most people are used to what was that called the sympathetic nervous system. That thing was that how it go focus. Isn't that focus? This guy from Dragon's Den I've been watching, um, which is the Canadian Shark Tank, he like does this thing where he's like Dragon called Dragons. Like then, bro, you guys got it all [\h__\h] up. All right, cool. Yeah, yeah, yeah, cool. Dragons. But no, honestly, like a lot of these girls that I meet, they don't like breakfast and we like to eat breakfast. But also then if a girl likes breakfast, I mean, see here, my reality, okay, this is my reality. Is this breakfast is the weirdest thing ever. Why would you want to wake up and put put food in your mouth? Silly. just don't eat. Drink water, have coffee, and then go a few hours and then eat. Like I think eating in the morning is like really weagard. I just think it's super weird. So people look like, you know, the way people look at, oh my god, you skipped breakfast. It's like this incredible crazy thing you did. I think that of eating breakfast. It's like, what? Why are you eating breakfast? It's so silly. Um. Yeah. Yeah. I don't let them frame control me. Don't control me. You're the weird one. I'm like the weird one. You're the one. Where do you Where do you get frame control from? Tell me where you got frame control from. Brain control, dude. I don't know, man. I Tell me where you got frame control from. I read [\h__\h] like whatever. NLP and dating stuff. I'm curious. I have a curious mind. I'm interested in fitness, social dynamics, um business. Um that's it. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. What else is there? I can do that. Mindfulness and stuff. My [\h__\h] um you hear that? Yeah. Yeah, the police are there for you. Yeah, man. They'll never take me. They'll [\h__\h] never take me alive. There's a black guy with computer. I will [\h__\h] kill everybody. Yeah. No, no, no. But uh what I was gonna say, oh yeah, you know, like what I think is weird. I like breakfast food. Like breakfast traditional breakfast food. I eat that every time of day, man. Pancakes don't taste different because it's night time. I eat that [\h__\h] in the middle of the night. Yeah. No, I I hear that. I haven't had food in the morning in basically almost five years. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. Like I don't I I just even if even if eating in the morning like like honestly I just don't like to be fed in the morning. It makes me [\h__\h] tired. Like food is just tired eating my my my I we we call that the itis and soon like is a genetic predisposition called the itis. You might want to Google it one day. And like how is it my my my I my energy just drops. And I suspect it's I suspect it's your body's using energy to digest the food, right? And that's part of being in the parasympathetic nervous system. It's the digestion, relaxation system. And so when you're in the parasympathetic nervous system, you feel more tired, relaxed, sleepy. That's why when you have that big [\h__\h] turkey dinner with all the turkey and potatoes, you're like, "Oh, I'm also the tryptophan though." And tryptophan. Yeah. And the serotonin. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Those neuro amino acids, neurotransmitters, and so forth. Uh, I know some [\h__\h] I know some [\h__\h] [\h__\h] I mean, you're a huge YouTube star. Yeah, I I am AI'm a legitimate celebrity, bro. You're a legitimate mega mega huge celebrity. So [\h__\h] famous. I like I would I if we wasn't friends, you don't even know how much you'd have to pay to be on this on this [\h__\h] But I [\h__\h] with you. feel like it's it's it's you know. So So how often do you do you find that people that bump into you and like yo is that UBBC? No on some real [\h__\h] Uh every day. Yeah. You say like for real like almost it's every day now. And then and um man I like it. Person like saying what's up and talking to him and taking pictures with him and [\h__\h] like Yeah. Know did do the girls ever hit you up man? On the streets. On the streets. Yeah, rarely women in the streets. Usually a dude in the streets, you know. Girls is more like, you know, you know. So, so where do you get all these girls on your videos? Because I'm going to try and do something similar for my channel. All right. All right. Listen. One thing one thing you don't want to do is try to be like me, man. Like you want to you want to you want to lower you just want to go set some more attainable goals. You know what I'm saying? Because you know uh what's his name? What's his name? [\h__\h] his whole life up trying to be like me. Was this that dude's name? My man, I was talking to him and then I was like, "Hey." Well, no. I mean like Oh, Tiger Woods is his name. That's the dude I was talking about. Yeah. He [\h__\h] his life up trying to be like you. Be like me. Trying to live watching BBC like I want to be like, you know, he's driving into [\h__\h] trees and [\h__\h] and he can't hit a goddamn uh golf ball to save his life. So anyway, where I meet I mean they everywhere though, but I live in a big I live in like I was talking to Owen about this. I used to be like Tyler RS me and talking. He was like I was like yeah man day game you can meet girls anywhere. He said nah man you got to say you live in New York it's different. It's not like that every every place. And I I didn't take that to account. I didn't take that into account that like in New York there's literally girls everywhere. But Toronto there's a lot of girls everywhere too though. No but these girls that you're getting aren't they fitness girls? Aren't they like big fitness girls? Some of them are just girls who you know look good look good enough you know. I know. I'm not trying to emulate you, dude. I'm just like, yeah. Listen, listen. I I give you the whole blueprint. You see your girl, you like start talking to her. Say, "Hey, man. I'm Greg Kinobody." I'm Greg Kino. I'm Greg. Yo, can we do this in LA and film it? What? I'm gonna I'm gonna get my videographer. We're gonna meet up in LA. We're going to walk through Santa Monica and we're gonna get like the hottest girls to do fitness and Instagram post with us. You down? Yeah, I'm down. I'm down with that. Who? You got a You got a videographer? I got Yeah, I got a videographer, man. I I I Yeah. No, I I just pay a guy to have a camera and follow me everywhere I go. Yeah, that's a good I don't even get him to hit record. He just holds like a camera. You don't edit your own videos? And then I do like the I do like the camera check. What? Sorry. Your own videos, man. Um do I do I edit my own videos? Uh mostly, but I have some guy that helps me. Like I want to get a guy to edit my videos. I'd like to not do that anymore. Like like like people probably think Brian edits mine. Like I get the impression Brian people think like Brian edits off but he he really doesn't. Like even when he films them he doesn't edit them. Like he only sometimes he only films them because he's there but a lot of times you know he's replaced with a [\h__\h] tripod. Like I'll have anybody like it's not You don't have to be Martin Scorsesei to do one of my videos. You just got to [\h__\h] aim this [\h__\h] at me. Well, you know what? I I like editing my videos because I know what I think is going to be good and not good in video. But, you know, I'm doing some like every every month now I try and shoot with a videographer and like shoot like five, six like short videos and then I just have them basically edit it and then I'll create my own little homemade videos and I do the iPhone thing. I'm like, "What's up, dude? Just just here in my garage. My garage. I'm really proud of all these books. out a lot more than materialistic things. That's my Hey, man. That's my man though. That's my man. That's my man. That's Dude, I I I dude I like Tai Lopez has helped me so much. I started You want to meet him when we go to LA? What? You want to meet him in LA? Yeah. Yeah, dude. I'll take you to his office. Let's do it. Um I I'll see I don't know if Owen's gonna be there, but I'll ask him, you know, Yeah. I mean, whoever, you know, but um I actually like dude, I actually like [\h__\h] love Tai Lopez. I started he he's a really a marketing genius. People don't realize he's he's made millions of dollars before he even started teaching people about his 67 steps. Like he's a boss, but I didn't buy any of his stuff. I just followed his marketing style and the way he syndicates all his content and does the Snapchat and the Instagram and then the YouTube and then gets the iTunes and all that. I didn't post much of Kino Body until I started following Tai Lopez. I'm like, "Shit, I need to step my game up." Oh [\h__\h] I thought I thought I gave I thought I influenced you to do that. No, you influenced me to to pump out more videos. Lopez influenced me to take those videos and put them onto my my site and then onto iTunes. I love you. All right. All right. Oh. Oh. Oh. Like the like you influenced me to create more videos. You got the road the rip uh podcast. How's that going? Like I'm I'm think All right. So listen, I'm about to get in the podcast game. Like you a kid, you know? Like and I'm old [\h__\h] man. Like I'm old school. I'm old as [\h__\h] man. Wuang Tupac. You come to Toronto, these girls won't even look at you. They be like, "Who's this old man at the bar?" Well, nah, cuz then it's like, "No, cuz it's like I'm like I'm like mature." Like I'm like I'm like I'm that I'm that girl who's like, "Listen, yeah, that girl. You're that girl. I'm that guy. I'm that guy." Conflict with your That's a slip girl. Everyone holding back. Be a girl. You're a girl. Obviously Bruce Jenner. I'm bugging. Yeah. No. No. But girls be like, girls is like, it's like now I'm at that age where like girls in their 20s like, "Oh, yeah, man. No, he's he's older. He's like a man. He's like more mature." You know, and when I was your age, it was more like he's a little boy. Yeah. It's different, you know. You just want to use me for sex. It's horrible. Use you for money. I'm Hey, man. Hey. Hey. Hey. Whatever. Whatever works. Private jet. We just fly, you know, to different cities and bring our entourage. I feel like we could merge a solid entourage together. I know, right? Uh should we buy a mansion in Hollywood Hills? Oh, uh Owen's mansion, man. He already, you know, he his I don't know if I'm supposed to say it. Never mind. He's got that [\h__\h] big ass mansion. What was I talking about? All right. I was talking about something before we started talking about uh pretending to be on you're identify with the women more than the man. No. No, no, I'm saying I'm old, right? So, like you just taught me how to use this Google Hangout [\h__\h] Yeah, you're old now. Now, now like like walk me through this podcast because I know you got your Road to Rip podcast. I've been on that [\h__\h] right? I mean, you might as well syndicate your Have I Have I been on the World Trip podcast? Yeah, I know you have. And you're been on like twice. Oh, yeah. See, I didn't even know that. So, tell how's the Has the podcast like helped you gaining like how's it work, man? I don't know how much it helps because you don't really get to interact with people. They listen to it. You see your download numbers, but I'm doing about 200,000 downloads a month, which is considered pretty good. Yeah. 200,000. Yeah. So, like I'll consider a million good if million good. I've been dying for your fatherly approval and validation. What? Your cat is so cool. Wow. Beautiful. He's uh he's kind of a [\h__\h] like this. He's going to do this thing maybe where he jumps. I hope he doesn't. This is a distraction. All right, because this might go on the podcast. So, we [\h__\h] up because people can't see this [\h__\h] Anyway. All right. So, listen. Let's switch gears. What? What? What's book you reading right now? Uh, I'm reading like a really really uh uh great book. Um, it's um Dude, I don't actually You about to lie, son. I was about to I was about to make some funny funny joke. Yeah. The moment is passed though. Like comedy. See, the thing about comedy, it's about timing. It's about timing. It's the timing then it's like I I don't know. What was that? I was like, I was I was trying to trying to be affable and it don't work. But yeah, I I actually am not reading a book right now, dude. I'm not So, here's the thing. I'm not I know everything, man. Well, here's the thing. When you know everything, you don't have to read what some other [\h__\h] said about it. Yeah. When I learned everything I needed to learn, I'm done. No, it's not it's not that. It's not an arrogance. It's just that um I have like my own ways that I like to learn and um I don't like to read books because and the reason being is that I'm a huge environmentalist and the amount of trees that we we rate to produce books. It's crazy. When Lopez is like, I'm a lot more proud of these 2,000 books. I don't see 2,000 books. I see beautiful serene trees that have been cut down and and Kindle. You can read a K. You can get a Kindle. Get a Kindle, bro. I don't believe. No, I'm just kidding. I'm not I I I you know, I just like to do my reading and researching online and um and uh what the kids are doing. They're just like reading [\h__\h] online. They're just reading what's on the internet. I like I don't know, dude. I I mean, like I'll do some audio books and stuff, but you know, I don't know. Like for me, I'm someone that just likes to I like to have like the blinders on and focus on one thing at a time. And I find if I'm trying to like read too much [\h__\h] it's just mental masturbation. I don't really take any action. So, I'm more someone that likes to just kind of focus on, okay, what do I want to learn about this week? And then kind of focus or this month and just kind of immerse myself in that skill as opposed to kind of read book after book after book. Now, I'm not saying that it's bad to read all these different books. It's amazing. No, because no one's going to believe that. What? No one Don't say that because no one's going to believe it. No, I'm I'm not saying don't read. I was saying you you read tons of books if that's your thing and that's what you like, but it's just that's never resonated with me. Um, and and [\h__\h] hating you for it. I'm just being honest. Like I didn't read a lot of books. I I I was just trying to switch gears and I thought and then I you I didn't I just I didn't know you. I didn't know you like honestly the way that you framed that it was almost like you're like really like looking down at me and like I I felt like for a while I was like who's this big Brandon Carter dude I mean listen project your insecurities and sending I felt like you know really hurt like I was I was going to I was going to I was going to Derek sooner you know I just felt like maybe like your career was like all blossoming and mine was winding down and made me feel really threatened but I freaking wore ship you, dude. Your your 1990 GQ spread made me want to be a moral. I'm reading this book, Talk Like Ted, because I had to give a speech at uh the RSD Summit in Vegas in uh That's sick. I gotta give a [\h__\h] speech, man. 90 minute speech. I don't have to do it, but I was invited. Well, you know what the you know what the thing is from my experience as far as doing speeches? Um, so the thing is for me, and this is just my style, I I I'm someone that has to come up with no agenda. Like, I have to go onto the stage and literally be like, you know what? Okay, I'm just going to flow with the vibes. I don't have I don't I'm not going to try and create this reaction. I'm not going to try and hit on these points. I'm just going to come up and let it go where it goes because I'm someone that kind of just lives in like I like to thrive in the moment. And then as soon as I'm like, "Okay, I want to tell this story and this and this and this." People can kill that and do it amazingly well, it's not me. It just comes across forced and contrived and it loses its juice and it seems off. So, I'm someone like I have to go and do a speech, I would be like I would be like maybe write down some stuff I want to talk about and I go up and I just try and make the experience as enjoyable for myself. If I have fun talking about it, it will be entertaining. That's me. Oh, all right. Note to self, never book Greg for speaking engagement because everyone else will look horrible. I'll come up. No agendza. So, uh, you guys like breakfast because, uh, I don't, uh, that No, dude. I will I I will, uh, I will smash it. This is my speak engagement right now. Yeah, that is more like a two mice fell into a bucket of cream. The first mouse quickly gave up and drowned. The second mouse was a fighter. He fought so hard he turned that cream into butter and climbed out. Ladies and gentlemen, as of today, I'm the second mouse. That's my Christopher Walking. What happened? What just happened? It's my accent. That was my celebrity impression, dude. You just impression. Give me the validation that I was You No, no. It was a good It was a good Listen, I can't I can't I can't do it. All right. What's your favorite? Do you watch any TV shows? Yeah. No. Ray Donovan is a sick show. Really? I also like The Profit. Really cool show. My [\h__\h] The problem. The problem is yo man, that's my idol. Like that's my like people ask me who I look dude. Marcus, man. Marcus is [\h__\h] boss, man. Yeah, he's a [\h__\h] He needs to cut though. Marcus needs to cut. He needs to, dude. He's got hundreds of millions of dollars. He doesn't have to do [\h__\h] man. But it don't make no It don't Listen Listen, it's all part of you. You got to have the money. Have Tai Lopez, the good life, the health, the wife. Tai Lopez is le he's in [\h__\h] He's not out he's not out of shape, you know. He doesn't have a kino body, but he's not he's not out of shape, you know. I dig Tai's message, man. I think he's I think he really Ain't nobody [\h__\h] with Marcus. I watched that [\h__\h] I watched that in Shark Tank. Yeah. Who y'all got on Dragons then? Like who the [\h__\h] like Canadian entrepreneur? Maple syrup like conglomerance and stuff. [\h__\h] is a [\h__\h] I I imagine I imagine a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] It's the wedding, you know. How about we be, you know, maple syrup. We own a maple syrup conglomerate. You know, dude, you know, you don't know anything about maple syrup. I happen to know everything there is about maple syrup. You know, sometimes I'm having a bad day. The maple syrup guy, the Canadian dry guy. Goddamn Drake and and who else? Who's the fourth guy on a Canad on a Dragon? Brian Reynolds. Um Ryan Reynolds is on it. Canadian. Uh uh [\h__\h] random Gallagher. He's Canadian. Yo, this chick actually for $20,000 today and she sent me a video uh presentation. I gotta find this [\h__\h] dude. What' she do? All right. Is there a way I can put this link into the [\h__\h] She asked me for $20,000 today. For what? She gave me a present for her business, man. She had a She gave me a business proposal. She posted that [\h__\h] on YouTube. She made a video like Shark Tank. For what percentage? 20% for 20% of her business. So I guess she evaluates her [\h__\h] at $100,000. Yeah. $100,000 business. Let's Let's write the check, dude. 20K 20%. See, normally I And the business hasn't created any revenue yet. Uh it doesn't really even exist, but she still gave herself $100,000 valuation. Yeah, that sounds reasonable. The ideas are powerful, man. Let's one out of zero. Why not do a million? Don't stop at 100K. Shoot for the stars. But here's the idea though, Greg. See, like, no, on paper it sounds awful, right? It just sounds like a bad investment until until you find out. She used to be a stripper. Oh, yeah. All right. Now, now, all right. All right. Now, now you now we already like it. And she wants to I'm not exactly sure what her business model is, but it's something about helping strippers do some [\h__\h] I wasn't really paying attention and I don't think it's going to work, but I'd like to be involved. People have a lot of sympathy for strippers. So, yeah, I'd like to be involved. I'd like I'd like that somewhere we can just like bring these strippers into a community and a place where we can give them some guidance. All right? We can help them accomplish their goals. You know, we can we can show them the P. What What are their goals? Uh, being a stripper that is that's they won. They already they I mean I don't I mean listen I don't really remember what her business model was or what the plan was but it was a it was a $100,000 evaluation for a business that didn't exist or the fact that this girl created a video, right? I kind of like it. See that's a star right there. I kind of like it. I kind of like it. I know you guys can post a link into this [\h__\h] Yeah, let's see this video. Yeah, the side chat bar. Where is that [\h__\h] Where's that [\h__\h] Oh, I can I can post this [\h__\h] in here and people will see the [\h__\h] No, no, just me and you will see it. All right. All right. You know what? I want All right. Listen listen. I want I kind of want you to watch this [\h__\h] right now. Is it unlisted or is it public? Ah, man. I think I'm pretty sure it's public, man. Which makes it even better. And she said my name. That's why it's so funny. That's what's so great about it. It's like uh it's audacious, you know. Yeah, it's very, you know, it's very audacious. Her business is called Alpha Female. All right. Texas. Hey, Brandon Carter. My name is Danny Wise. I'm from Austin, Texas. Yeah. I don't know if I should do this. But she made it public, so [\h__\h] it. You tell me what you think. Yeah. You tell me. You know what, dude? If you don't invest, I will. I'm You go [\h__\h] it up. Listen. No [\h__\h] No [\h__\h] No [\h__\h] No [\h__\h] Even if just if you kind of like it, me and between me and you, we know two other guys who will put up five grand and like that's five grand we we would either lose at the crap tables at Vegas or something anyway, right? So it's not like a big [\h__\h] deal. Let's see. Yeah. But you know what? Like honestly, I mean, I don't I don't want to invest in a business. I don't really care to even make money by investing in a business. I'd rather just more create value and make money that way. Like that's my only [\h__\h] thing. That's all I want. Like I have my own businesses, you know, and that I've created. But I I want to get out of being like the [\h__\h] guy running the business. Like I want to do more. Like that's like that's my like plan from like I mean I'mma build the business I have to a certain point. Like I have goals for everything, but then I want to get out of that [\h__\h] man. I want to get out of like the [\h__\h] working like working for the business, you know? I just want to be able to work in the business. Yeah. Yeah. I I want to like just do more investing, you know? You want to do Okay. Wait here. I'm I'm moving downstairs because my power cord is downstairs and I'm I'm losing juice. Oh, all right. So, like what you're saying is you weren't you weren't prepared for this p for this uh interview. You didn't take it seriously. I I heard it was the Brandon Carter experience, not the Brandon Carter marathon. All right. Listen, listen listen. You can listen. You can hear her evaluation. Listen to it. Listen. Brandon Carter, Austin, Texas, and I'm looking for $20,000 for 20% of my company, Alpha. What's happening right now is a montage of her dancing. What's happening right now is she's playing a a 10-year-old LL CoolJ song and she's doing a montage of her dancing and I I could I was I'm captivated at this point. Oh [\h__\h] What happened? You hear me, bro? Yeah, I'm good. I'm there. just dancing right now. But on me, because I was a dance, my senior prom. This is a real thing. First day I danced was the day before my senior prom. And I actually showed up to my prom with tons of bruises all over my legs. The first three years I started dancing, I actually tried to go to community college. But between the hours and the stigma that society put on me because I was a dancer, it really held me back from reaching my potential and and learning anything important. So both you and I know that the future of learning has drastically changed. It is no longer going to school, getting an industrial job, and working for 40 years, and then retiring off the government. It's now all about entrepreneurialism. I've lost a lot of my passion for going out and partying. [\h__\h] I can't I can't listen to the whole thing right now because No, I can't either, man. I can't. But you get the idea. She wants to help strippers do [\h__\h] you know? She wants to help strippers do [\h__\h] That's That's cool. And I like I mean man maybe like maybe man she's kind of she's a pretty girl you know listen I'm so I don't know what the business model is. All right and we and and I don't know if the valuation is correct but I want to be involved. You you want to be involved if you want to get in if you'll get in. If you'll get in. Yeah. Can I get you in at 5K? Can I get you in at 5K, man? Okay. Here's the thing. [\h__\h] guys to throw 5K at this and it is not a big investment. You know what? If you wanna What the [\h__\h] man? You're not taking this [\h__\h] seriously. What happened? And we lost Greg. Everyone look here. We lost Greg. So, we gonna end it. We gonna end it. Uh, hey, man. I was really I was serious. Let's get [\h__\h] two more guys, get 5K, and we [\h__\h] have like just we we help strippers do something, you know? Like I I didn't I didn't really get it. But that doesn't mean it wasn't a it was a bad presentation. Just mean I didn't get it, you know? Maybe it's just me, you know? Um she's real pretty girl and uh she knows some strippers. So, you know, it sounds like a good idea for I'm sorry, dancers. So, it sounds like a good idea for me uh to some I'm passionate about uh dancers, you know. Anyway, this it seemed like this this podcast this whole Google Hangout thing was a failure and uh but you know, cool. See y'all later. Yo, [\h__\h] [\h__\h] with me. [\h__\h] with me though. If y'all want to learn more about Greg's system and [\h__\h] uh go to Kinobody backbrand. We have the products. You can see kind of like laid out pretty cool. Um, his [\h__\h] his [\h__\h] is dope. You know what I'm saying? Like I know I know I know a lot of the people who he works with behind the scenes and [\h__\h] So like uh his [\h__\h] is dope, man. I stand behind his [\h__\h] So you should check it out. All right. Peace.