Are you not entertained? Is this not why you are here? Yo, what up? What up? It's your man Big Brandon Carter. People always ask me, "Yo, what are the best exercises to get a six-pack?" Like, if you only had to pick two, what would they be? So, here are my favorite ab exercises. I'm in the gym with some of my friends and uh we're going to demonstrate them. I'm going to teach them as well as show you. So, anyway, if I had to pick just one exercise, it would be this dragon flags. Um it's probably the best exercise for abs in my opinion. I know a lot of you aren't going to be able to do that straight up. Like, this is a real advanced exercise. So, I'm going to show you an alternative, but this would probably be my number one favorite abdominal exercise. Maybe I'll do a tutorial on how to how to do this coming soon. But if you can't do that, don't worry about it. You can start with hip raises. I'll explain it here. your back. Yeah. If you don't hear that sound, you're not doing it right. I don't like about legless. Like legless, you bend from here and that's like that works more your hip flexors. But like what you're going to be doing is hip raises. Okay. Right. Lifting your hips up. So you're bending more from here. That's working the abs more. Like people do this all day. Oh, how come my abs suck? Because you're working it's mostly a hip flexor exercise. But this brought to you by it's mostly university tomorrow at 8 on That's what I'm doing. Okay. If your back farts do if it farts I'm doing your legs straight up to all our service men and women around the world want to thank you for protecting us and keeping us safe. And then bring it down. Yeah. But don't bring the legs down. Keep them up. Yeah. Right. 79 Lambo and see the smile Aaron Rogers. It was a laugher 190 Bears Packers. It was all pretty big. Showed you on the basket. Three minutes all the touchdown passes. Here's some of them. Bostic to Jordy Nelson by Aaron Rogers. I mean it was 28 nothing before you even knew what was going on. The problem and come down. You don't have to put No, don't put your legs back down. That's the thing. Just go straight up. He's just up and down. She took control of the team on the field. That's what these guys look like everybody to me shying away from being the leader, being the guy in charge. They just want to play the game, get their check, get the hell out of there. Doesn't work that way. Well, the honeymoon's over. It works out like this is football. Everybody's getting paid, but you get paid to win. And that fan base in Chicago, I could see their uneasiness because this probably my favorite ab exercise. Come here. And then you come come down. Try to put your knees into your Yeah. I mean, try to put your elbows into your knees, but then come up, but like arch your back, right? And then do it again like what you you're going to want to do this. Keep that guy out of the Super Bowl. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep here. It kind of like it's an arch at the top and then a curl. And it's the same kind of thing. Like it's like bending from from here as opposed to here. You're going to want to do here, but you're working the hips. If you bend from here, if you bend from your abs, you're working your abs. A nice stretch at the bottom, but you're not pulling it down with you're not you're not pulling it down with your arms, right? Your arm your hands are just like hooks like I can do it like nothing like you know two guys are just hooked. What do we know? Well, as we talked about yesterday morning on Sunday Countdown, the Adrien Peterson situation is about to get very interesting. And as it turns out, the NFL PA released the following not injury to remove Adrien Peterson from the commission explicit language of the signed agreement dated September 18th, 2014. We asked the NFL to honor that agreement last week. trying to pin your put your head failed to respond or compliance. Yeah. Like that like that right. Exactly. Exactly. Any and all breaches contract between a player this team or the NFL. And according to NFL league sources, they're saying their understanding of that agreement is that a review now takes place as a personal case. Even though things like the computer right here, you want her arms like that all the way. Is my arm swipe? Yeah, you're doing fine. Was involved in that incident and they will go ahead and effectively. Yeah. Do some more. Do some more. What you don't want to do is like don't like go back. Like what you're kind of doing is like when you come down, you're like bending. You're like your knees. You don't Yeah. Exactly. Also the 21day window that's perfectated could open as early as Tuesdays. That feels so good, right? That's like my favorite ab exercise. Feels really good. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. We get a get a nice stretch at the top. Tuesday midterm elections were complete coffee who purchased and but yeah yeah yeah or just like bin from here you know what I'm saying like don't move your butt back and forth yeah don't and don't scoot your butt back use your abs to curl it all Yep. But even less but request at the top. Yeah. So like your lower back should almost stay parallel and you're only bending from here. Is that too much weight? You should you should get like look at me for a second. It should when you get to the when you get to the to the when you get here it should be like tell my back kind of like curves like this. Or just like a cap. Holy mess. Yeah. Yeah. And then come right better. It's better. You kind You kind This is a hard exercise to get. Like I was shocked that I'm not like Okay. Maybe I need lighter weight though. Yeah. Yeah. Are you not entertained?