Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall here at Untamed Strength Gym in Sacramento, California. This is the start of a video series that I'm going to be doing where I post a video, maybe a week, maybe every other week. I've reached out to a few guys that I follow on Instagram and on YouTube, and I've asked them to create a one week sample program that you can start following now and you can follow it for however long you want. You can follow it for the next year without making any major adjustments to it. And each of these programs is directed at a specific style of trening. So barbells only, bodyweight only, kettlebell or dumbbell only, running and lifting, bodybuilding. And these programs are designed for an intermediate lifter, someone who's been lifting for a while, who just needs to change up their stale routine or you want to learn more. You want to try a different approach to whatever style of trening that you're interested in. This is the first video of this series, starting off with a heater, dude, 95 mile an hour fastball. Coming at you. Will Retell has got a sample, one week sample program for you. Barbell trening only meant for developing strength and power. I've done Will's programs. I've done Haas project. I've done parts of Haas Olympic. He's got Haas 2.0. He's got Haas concurrent. Some of, I would say the best trening programs, strength trening programs on the internet. If you have a question after watching this video, if you have a question for Will about the program or about just trening in general, you could post it down below, but I think a better option would be to go to his YouTube channel, subscribe and then post your question on his most recent trening video. And each of his trening videos, he answers questions and comments from the previous video. So that would be the best way to get a question answered from him. So this program is for anyone who has a high trening age and has developed skills in all the main barbell exercises and their variants that would include the Olympic lifts and all of their derivatives too. But this is how I like to structure a weekly trening routine. This is the type of structure I run on my trening team, Haas concurrent that you can join with a seven day free Trial via the tren heroic app. It's four days of strength trening per week. All four days are full body days. I also like to incorporate plyometric and sprint trening two days per week, but this video was just about the strength trening day one, starting with a clen variation with an emphasis on performance. This is typically going to be a clen power, clen, or block clen, hitting triples doubles or singles, or even sets of all three of those rep ranges. Exercise two is a heavy squat variation, a squat variation that also emphasizes performance. So back squat, front squat, pause, squats, or pin squats. For this exercise, I'd program a giant set of 10 to 12 reps. A giant set is just one long set in which you break it up into mini sets as necessary in order to complete the total number of reps. The load for a giant set should be right around or even slightly greater than 85%. If you choose 85%, you can probably complete 12 reps in four sets of three, or you can do something like one set of four, two sets of three, a couple doubles, a couple singles to complete your reps. The third exercise is going to be some sort of heavy bench variation, either a normal bench press or, or a variation that doesn't stray too far away from your primary bench. Follow the same prescription as the squat, a giant set of like 10 to 15 reps with a heavy load. And lastly is another exercise for the upper body because you've just performed three heavy exercises. I like doing an upper body pull here. Pull-ups are a good exercise for this slot since they're either body weight, or if you are adding weight, it's not going to be that much of an external load. Finish the session with two to three AMRAP sets, aiming to hit somewhere between five to eight reps per set. Okay. So moving on to day two, this is a snatch day, but a snatch that isn't emphasizing performance. It's emphasizing a skill component or variation that places constrents on the exercise, muscle snatch, no contact snatch, high hip snatch, close grip snatch prescription. Here's a 16 minute density set, choose a weight and just attempt to get quality reps in for 16 reps. This is practice. You're accumulating quality reps, not worrying about peak performance, but you're still trying to hit high outputs just aren't necessarily aiming for peak performance with this exercise. Second exercise is a ground-based pull or a deadlift variation. I like high sets and low reps here. Just squatted heavy the day or prior day. We'll save the heavy pulling for day four, six to eight sets of two to three reps, moving the weight with confidence, no grindy reps here. Overhead press next, same prescription of the deadlift variation. And the final exercise is going to be aromasingle leg exercise done for low sets, high reps. I like Bulgarian split squat for two sets of like 12 to 15 reps. Moving on to day three is a block clen. We'll start off with and we'll also add in jerks here, just like snatches from day two, some variation that emphasizes skill or technique work over peak performance. So block power clens plus a push press plus a jerk works great here. Your load will be limited by the weight you can push press. So it's a great opportunity to improve your skill in the clen and the jerk with lighter loads. Work up to a couple of sets of your top weight on a complex. Second exercise is another squat variation following the same protocols, the deadlifts from day two, high sets, low reps, good bar speed, nothing that's going to be overly taxing. Third exercise is going to be a bench press variation. This exercise is also going to follow the high sets, low reps, fast bar speed prescription, eight sets of one to two or two to three reps should suffice here. And the final exercise for day three is a hamstring exercise. A great exercise to throw in here is a Nordic hamstring curl, which is a solid choice for those who are doing a lot of sprinting outside of the gym. And it's another exercise that doesn't require much external load for it to be effective. And moving on to day four here, the first exercise is going to be a snatch variation with the goal as performance snatch, power snatch, block snatch, hitting triples, doubles, or singles, or even all three rep ranges. Second exercise is a heavy deadlift, a giant set of 10 to 12 reps, just like the squat from day one, then overhead work with an emphasis on performance. So an overhead press, pin press or a push press another exercise slot. That's great to be done with a giant set of like 10 to 12, 10 to 15 reps. And the last exercise is going to be an upper body. Pull Penlay Rosa might go to exercise for heavy pulls other than chin ups. I really like giant sets and density sets here. If you want to do a giant set, go for 20 to 25 total reps or density set of like eight to 10 minutes, trying to accrue as many quality reps as you can in that timeframe. This is just a very simple and practical weekly setup for trening. You can see how the loads and intensities and other trening variables get distributed throughout the entire week to ensure that each session can be performed with high effort, basically two days of high performance, two days of variation or skill work, or however you want to identify those days. And of course, there are a lot of other variables that you can play around with and dials. You can turn up and down as you see fit and get more comfortable with this full body split like this is how I like to structure a weekly trening split. I've used other trening splits in the past, but this is the one that has recently brought a lot of progress for me. And I find each session enjoyable trening this way.