Hello everyone, I'm Alan Thrall, owner, operator of Untamed Strength Gym in Sacramento, California. I'm very excited to make this video. I wanted to record it in December before the new year, but I've been busy wrapping Christmas presents and baking cookies. So 2023 was the 10 year anniversary of Untamed Strength Gym. I opened up in 2013. It's also been 10 years since I started making YouTube videos. So to celebrate, I came up with this 10 commandments, 10 things you should know and 10 things you should follow before starting your fitness journey. If you're already on your fitness journey, these might be some reminders. So what I'd like you to do is at the end of this video, comment down below which commandment resonated most with you, if any. For me personally, it's number 10. That's why I put it at the end. So you have to sit through the whole video just to hear it. And don't you dare press fast forward or use the iCards below. So these commandments aren't in any necessary, aren't necessarily in order of importance, but they are grouped together based on categories, some trening, nutrition, mindset, that sort of thing. So let's get started. The first commandment, focus on what excites you. Figure out what you wanna do in the gym. Figure out why you want to be in the gym. So you might be focused or interested in aesthetics. You want to lose some body fat, trensform your body, improve your body composition, build muscle. You might want to focus just on strength. You don't really care about changing the way you look or you're already content with how you look and you just wanna pursue strength. You might be attracted to the history and simplicity of powerlifting or you might like the competitive aspect of the sport of powerlifting or another strength sport. You might like the high speed, high intensity, high variety, competitive nature of CrossFit. You might like the athleticism of calisthenics or maybe you relate to the strongman body type. Maybe you can see yourself doing the sport of strongman and you don't really relate to a CrossFitter with washboard abs doing a bunch of muscle ups. Whatever it is, whatever you want to do in the gym, you need to figure that out, focus on that. Don't listen to what anyone else tells you. If you are in the gym focused on appearance or you're just there to bodybuild or just build some muscle but you have these strength focus guys or these powerlifters who say, yo, you're just worried about all that bodybuilding stuff. You need to get stronger. You're not even that strong. You need to squat bench deadlift. Strength is the most important thing. You need to get your numbers up. You should be hitting these certain numbers. You need to lay this base for the squat bench deadlift before you do this and that. And you're thinking, I don't even like to deadlift. I don't really like doing barbell bench. I'd rather just do dumbbell bench. Just focus on what you want to do and don't be influenced by those other guys because you might be wanting to be, wanting to improve your body composition or pursue more bodybuilding type endeavors but you're stuck on this powerlifting program because that's what these guys tell you. And on the other end of that, you might be a powerlifter and you have a bunch of bodybuilding friends or people in the gym who are like, hey, you know, you're not even that big. Like you're kind of strong but you're not even that big. You can squat all that weight but you don't even have big legs. You bench all this weight but you don't have big arms. Why do you bench with such a wide grip? Why do you arch your back? Why do you use a sumo deadlift? Don't listen to any of that. You're a powerlifter. You don't care about that. You're focused on improving yourself as a powerlifter. So keep your head in there. You might be a heavyweight strongman competitor and you're not interested in losing weight. You just like competing as strongman but maybe other people are saying, you know, you need to lose some weight. Why are you so focused on this stuff? You need to start losing some weight. And you're thinking, I'm a heavyweight strongman. I don't need to do that. So don't listen to what other people tell you. Stay in your lane. If anyone else gets out of their lane, just ignore it. Kindfully, you know, respectfully ignore it. I am here telling you to not listen to anyone else tell you what to do, if that makes any sense. So number two, second commandment. Find a program. Let me go back actually. So for the first one, focus on what excites you. That can also change. This is something that I've personally dealt with over the past however many years. But whatever you focus on can change. Whatever you're interested in can change. So if you've been a powerlifter for five years and you're just getting burnt out on powerlifting but maybe you wanna do some more bodybuilding type trening. But all your buddies and all your trening partners are like, don't do all that stuff. You know, you've kind of dug yourself into this hole and it's hard to climb out of. And so you end up just quitting because I just don't wanna do powerlifting anymore so I just don't even lift weights now. Or you might be a bodybuilder and you just really wanna start pursuing powerlifting. And everyone's like, oh, you're gonna lose a bunch of size if you just do squat bench deadlift. And you're not into that. Whenever it's time to change, whenever it's time to jump ship, do it. If you're wanting to pursue something else, if you wanna focus your energy and attention on something else, if your interests have changed, be aware of that, don't worry about what anyone else says, and pursue that. So back to where I was. Commandment number two, find a program and stick to it for six months minimum. The best way to ensure you look completely lost in the gym or like you have no idea what you're doing is to show up to the gym with no program. You need to at least have something written out for the day, preferably something written out for the entire week so that you can just repeat that. If you've got something that lasts two months, three months, four months, whatever it is. You need to find a program and stick to it for six months. Don't be the person who goes into the gym without a program and floats over to this machine because it's off in the back corner or looks around and says, okay, nobody's using this machine, I guess I'll try this. Or you wanna use a machine, but there's a bunch of people around and so you just don't use that machine. You don't have a program, you're just kind of floating around the gym. Or you go into the gym, you go immediately to the treadmill, you start walking on the treadmill, you're trying to work up some courage to find out and figure out what I'm gonna do today, and you end up just walking on the treadmill for 45 minutes and then goinGHome. You need a program to follow. Not having a program is like trying to bake some cookies when you have no idea what you're doing and you have no recipe. If you have a recipe for some cookies, just follow the recipe, chances are you'll make some pretty good, at least edible, cookies. If you have a program and you follow it, chances are you will get some results. Six months, the reason I list six months is, six months is a good challenge for you. It's a good test trial to see if you can stick to a program, you can be consistent with going to the gym, you can develop some good habits within those six months. Six months also is enough time for you to decide what you liked, what you don't like, maybe what direction you wanna take. So the next time I do this program for six months, you might have loved that program, you're gonna repeat it for another six months. Maybe you liked this, you didn't like that, you found yourself wanting to skip this stuff, and so you can now create another program or just pick and choose another program based on what you've learned in those six months. If we refer back to commandment number one, focus on what you enjoy or focus on what you wanna do in the gym. Maybe you have no idea, you don't know. I don't know if I wanna do bodybuilding, powerlifting, strongman, I don't know what I wanna do. If you follow a program for six months, after those six months, you can say, yeah, I did that program, don't like it. Don't like that style of trening. Maybe I'll switch it up and I'll focus on more of a powerlifting program. Hey, I really, really like this powerlifting program, I've been doing it for six months. So now you're kind of figuring out what you like, what you don't like, and you can develop good habits within those six months. Stick to a program, six months minimum. Number three, you need to log your trening. Logging your trening can look like plugging in your trening in the phone, maybe in an app, or my preference would be pen and paper. I have an actual trening log notepad. So you are writing down the day, the date, maybe some small notes like how you're feeling that day, what the date is, oh, I'm sorry, what your body weight is. If you track certain things like measurements, you can put those things in, but you're logging in each day. So there are a few benefits to logging your trening. The first one being, it gets you in the mindset. It can be a ritual. When you sit down and write your exercises for the day, your sets and reps, maybe some rep ranges that you're planning on hitting, you are getting in the mood, you're getting in the mindset to go tren. Some people have these rituals, you know, okay, I like to drink pre-workout, and then I drive to the gym, I listen to this playlist, and that's kind of what gets me ready and in the mindset for going to the gym. That's all fine and well. Personally, I like to sit down and write out my workout so I can just envision it. It's like a dress rehearsal. It's like looking at plays in a playbook before going onto the field to play a football game. It's like looking at flashcards before a test. Logging your trening also keeps you engaged in the trening session. When I have an actual pad and paper, because I don't like being on my phone while I'm trening, when I have this pad and paper, I do my set, IMight just do a check mark to say that was set number one, how much weight I used. You can actually log in some notes. I'm gonna add weight for the next set for this reason. I'm gonna reduce the weight, I'm gonna keep the weight. You can actually write down how you're feeling and take some notes. It is like a journal. And again, it helps me stay engaged. It gives a nice flow to your trening session. Rather than doing your sets and reps and then going and mindlessly getting lost on Instagram and saying, oh, it's been 10 minutes, what am I doing? What set was that? Okay, let me go to another one. You can be focused and engaged in your trening session in this journal, in this trening log. Another benefit to having a trening log is it is your database. So you can actually look back on it to reflect on what's worked well for you and what hasn't. Maybe you vaguely remember trening being a lot better last year this time. Why is that? You can look back at your trening. So for example, you might say, okay, last year for the first six months I was running a five-day split. And I was making better gains and I felt a lot better. Then IMoved to a four-day split and I found myself skipping exercises, not being able to finish all my exercises within the given time. And my measurements weren't as good. So maybe that five-day split worked better for me. Or, oh, maybe I had 48 hours between these movements. Now I'm only resting 24 hours between these movements. So you can look back at your journal to figure out where to go from there. And if you've been trening for one year, two years, three years, five years, 10 years, not all of that information stays up in your head. You might think it does, but some of it just falls off. Personally, what I've done is, this isn't exact numbers, but I would look back and say, why was my squat so much better last summer? And I'll look back at my trening log and say, wow, I was doing nine to 12 sets of squats per week. Now I'm only doing four to six sets of squats per week. So maybe there's something to this high frequency for my squat that I respond really well to. I should go back to that. So log in your trening as this database. Commandment number four, don't take breaks. Now, surely you need to take breaks in the gym. I'm not talking about breaks between your sets in the gym. Don't take a period of time off of trening. So don't take weeks off of trening. Don't take months off of trening. Don't be a seasonal lifter. Don't be a weekend warrior. If you look at any successful person, whatever success means to that person within fitness, whatever fitness success means, the common denominator in all those people is not their stellar program. It is not that they have a celebrity trener that you don't have access to. It is the fact that they are consistent. They have logged in five years, 10 years, not missing any trening sessions or not taking any time off, I should say. They have not taken any breaks. If you look at someone who is lacking motivation or excuse me, lacking momentum, they seem to start and stop a lot of times. They are spinning their wheels. They fail to make progress. They fail to continue momentum. They are not consistent with their trening. I've talked to all sorts of people over the past 10 years that have all different stories. And a common story I hear, this is no judgment, this is just the truth, this is what I commonly hear, is there are periods of time where they take breaks. Oh, you know, I started school and I stopped lifting. I got a new job, had to stop lifting. I had a kid, had to stop lifting. And I'm mainly talking to the dads here, not talking to the mothers. IMoved, I stopped lifting. So they have all these periods of time when they stop lifting. They'll say this quote here or this line here. They'll say, you know, I was trening, I was making a bunch of progress and then life got in the way. And I'm like, exercise and trening is part of your life. It should be part of your life. So don't say that life got in the way. Now, when I say don't take breaks, I understand that not everyone is wired like me or that maybe your priorities are different from mine. There are times when life does get very busy and you can't devote five two-hour trening sessions per week to trening. But maybe you can take that 10 hours of weekly trening time and put it into five hours of weekly trening time. So maybe that five hours drops to three hours, whatever it is. Your trening can scale up and down, but you should never take a break, damn it. Even if all the time you have is on lunch break, you can do 100 pushups. I can always have time to do some pushups or some squat jumps or to go run a mile. You will always find time. trening can scale up and down, but you should not stop. Don't have this all or nothing mentality. And I've seen people, I've heard people, when they start school, usually young guys, they'll say, school's starting this fall, so I'm canceling my membership. I'll be back though after school because they're hardcore power lifters and they can't compete while they're trening, excuse me, while they're going to school. So they cancel their membership because they're not doing power lifting. It's an all or nothing mentality. Don't take breaks, scale up and down if you need. Now, the last thing I'll say about not taking breaks. I had mentioned that you might not be wired like me. So I am obsessed with trening. I love trening. It is a part of me to the core. I will always find time to tren. I love trening, so no matter what my life looks like, no matter what situation I'm in, I'm always going to try to find a way to get in some sort of trening because I love it. If you don't love trening as much as I do or you already are kind of on the fence, you have to really dig up some motivation and it is difficult for you to get to the gym. If you take a break, it is going to be so difficult for you to start back up. You need to maintain that momentum. Don't stop because I kind of think of it like an alcoholic who says, you know, I've been doing really good. Excuse me, a recovering alcoholic who says, I've been doing really good. I haven't had a drink in six months. I'm going to reward myself. Just every once in a while, take a break, you know, have a couple of drinks. Nope, bad idea. It's the same for you. If you already struggle to get to the gym, taking a break is going to be a surefire way to fail and never get back on the trening wagon. I think that's all I have to say about not taking breaks. Let's see, commandment number five. You need to eat according to your goals. Are you focused on weight loss, losing body fat? Are you focused on weight gain, whatever it is? Are you focused on weight classes within a strength sport? You need to eat according to your goals. The best way to sabotage progress in the gym is to not pay attention to what you're eating outside of the gym, not pay attention to your diet, to just continue eating like an eight-year-old and eating whatever the hell you want. The best way to ensure that all the hard work you put into the gym is just in vain is to not pay attention to your diet. So if you're focused on weight loss, you're overweight, you're obese, you need to lose some weight. I hate to tell you, but trening alone is not going to get you there. trening does not burn, exercise does not burn as many calories as you think. And if you are exercising, let's say you exercise three times a week, one-hour sessions, so that's three hours a week. That's a pretty good routine for someone who's, you know, for the average American, three hours a week. You goT3 trening sessions, one-hour, three trening sessions, one-hour trening sessions. You're only trening for three hours in that whole week. You're eating constantly every day for all that other time. So the diet way, way outweighs the trening. It is much easier to reduce your calorie consumption by 500 calories than it is to burn 500 calories in exercise per day. trening and exercising does not burn that many calories. You need to pay attention to your diet if you are trying to lose weight. You cannot just tren, out-tren a bad diet. And if you are underweight and you desperately need to gain weight, you want to build some muscle, you want to build some mass. I don't care how many bicep curls you do. I don't care how pumped you get your arms. If you're eating like a bird outside of the gym, if you are not fueling your body, you are not gonna be able to put on muscle tissue if you're not eating according to your goal. So pay attention to what you're eating. Make sure that it goes hand-in-hand with your trening and so that whatever goal you have, and that includes weight classes within strongman, within powerlifting, within Olympic weightlifting, eat according to your goals. And number six, hopefully my camera doesn't shut off on me because I'm timing out here, but number six is learn how to cook. This is a part of being an adult, just like moving out of mom and dad's house, looking for a job, making your own income, paying bills, being a contributing member to society, and learninGHow to cook. When you learn how to cook, you can control what you're eating. You can control how many carbs, how much protein, how much fat you're eating. And this doesn't mean you need to take any sort of cuisine, culinary courses. It's not that hard to saute some ground meat and to cook some rice and steam some vegetables. It's not that difficult. If you don't know how to do it, it's easy to learn. If you can go learn how to go into a gym and perform the barbell squat and the barbell deadlift, you can teach yourself how to cook. There's plenty of information on YouTube. Watch a how-to video. So by understandinGHow to cook and learninGHow to cook for yourself, you can control how much of those things you're eating, what your portion size looks like. If you don't know how to cook, you are always at the mercy of the takeout and fast food options. So if I ever am stuck ordering takeout or at a fast food restaurant, and you look at this menu, all I think is, okay, none of this stuff has enough protein. It's got hardly any protein. It's loaded with saturated fat. It's all grease gut bomb that I'm gonna eat. So I guess I'll just pick this because it's the least bad. I am at the mercy of whatever they have to offer. But if you are cooking for yourself, you can control all of those things. I'm not telling you need to get scientific with it. You don't need to measure out carbs and count calories and weigh your food and nothing like that. But you can say, okay, I want this much carb. I want this much protein. I want this much fruit and vegetables. I want this much fat or I don't want the fat. Whatever the case is, you are in control. You have the freedom to decide what you put into your body. You need to learn how to cook. That is not only for your fitness journey. That is a 10 commandment in your adulthood. Okay, number seven, I'm gonna stop this and I'm gonna put another clip because it's about timeout. I think it already timed out. Hopefully we're good. Okay, number seven. Invest in a weightlifting belt and a good pair of trening shoes or weightlifting shoes. I wanted to include one of the commandments about equipment because it's a common question I get from newcomers. Do I need a weightlifting belt? Do I need weightlifting shoes? Wrist straps, knee wraps, knee sleeves, elbow sleeves, wrist straps, do I need any of this equipment? What do you recommend? And first off, you don't need any equipment. You can get plenty strong, plenty jacked without any equipment. But if there was any equipment that I recommend to a serious lifter, it is a weightlifting belt and a pair of weightlifting shoes or good trening shoes. Now, this video is not gonna be about all of the benefits of wearing a weightlifting belt or how to pick a weightlifting belt or what you should look for when you're trying to find a weightlifting belt. I've already done that in a past video. But I will say that contrary to popular belief, a weightlifting belt is not a crutch. Surely it could be if you misuse it and you use it for every single rep, every single set on every single exercise. That's not how you use a weightlifting belt. I use it selectively on a couple of sets a week for heavy squats or heavy deadlifts or maybe some strongman movements. Wearing a weightlifting belt is not a crutch. People think that because you have a weightlifting belt, you're somehow turning your core off and you're just relying on the belt. If that is the case, you are using a weightlifting belt incorrectly. A weightlifting belt can help increase rigidity and intra-abdominal pressure throughout your midsection, which might help you bust out a couple more reps on squats or a little bit more weight so you can push other parts of your treninGHarder because you're more rigid. You've added an extra layer of abs to your midsection. You can actually brace and create more intra-abdominal pressure within your midsection. More pressure, more intra-abdominal pressure when you're wearing a belt versus when you're not wearing a belt because you have something to actually brace against. It's much like if I was to try to produce maximum force against a broomstick, I would not be able to produce as much force as if I was to push against a 300-pound barbell because there's something to brace against. I'm not saying you need to push your stomach out against the belt, but it just produces a more rigid midsection. If you're a serious lifter and you do care about performance, I think a weightlifting belt is a good investment. Next is a shoe. Now, you could get Olympic weightlifting squat shoes, but that's not necessarily what I'm talking about. You might just get a good trening shoe. So this right here, this is not an advertisement, but something like a Nike Metcon. This is a Rad, R-A-D, Rad 1 trening shoe. It is a very stiff, solid, grippy, stable, supportive trening shoe. Your trening shoe should be worn in the gym and only in the gym, not outside of it. A trening shoe is important, or a weightlifting shoe is important, because it provides support and stability if you do free weight movements where you're standing on your two feet, squats, deadlifts, bent over rows, overhead press, maybe some Olympic lifts or Olympic lifting variations. If you have 200 pounds on your back, 300 pounds, 400 pounds, 500 pounds on your back, and you're walking backwards out of the rack, you're squatting down, you're standing up, and you are wearing old, raggedy, squishy, worn-out tennis shoes, that's not safe. It's not supportive. Get yourself a good pair of lifting shoes to ensure you can actually put the force from your legs into the ground and not seep out and leak out through your old tennis shoes. But it's also just safer to have a good pair of trening shoes. Commandment number eight, master your technique. This commandment actually took me a day of kind of mulling it over my head to figure out if I even wanted to include this commandment. And I will explain why after I talk about this commandment. Master your technique. Mastering your technique. When I refer to technique, I'm talking about your, mainly for free weight movements, any movement, really. When I'm talking about technique, I refer to your balance, to your setup, your range of motion, your tempo, your cadence, your entire execution of a repetition. That is your technique. You need to master that for a couple of reasons. One, when you master your technique, you ensure that the muscles you're trying to tren are actually getting trened. Those are the muscles that are working. Those are the muscles that are being stressed. And if you have mastered your technique, you'll ensure that those muscles are growing and those muscles are progressing. When we look at movement patterns, mastering your technique will ensure steady, consistent progress. Mastering your technique is all about repetition. Repetition, repetition, repetition. When you do the same repetition over and over and over and over again, you are building confidence and you are ensuring that your progress is accurate. So if I was to teach you how to swing a baseball bat, I don't want you swinging the bat wildly in 10 different ways because that's not how you learn how to do something. You have to swing your bat the correct way and you do that over and over and over again so that when a ball is actually coming your way, you can ding off some home runs without having to think about it. It's just like lifting. When you've done something over and over and over, you don't have to run through a 10-point checklist in your head. How do I do this? How do I squat? You can just maybe focus on one or two things and really push yourself because you're confident in your mastery of technique. Mastering your technique will also ensure that you are staying safe and you're beinGHonest with your progress. Your technique is the goalpost. It is the target. It is your standard. Don't lower your standard. It is your blueprint. It is your measuring stick for letting you know when it's time to add weight. So if you are changing your technique, you haven't mastered your technique, you are adding weight to the bar. Let me back up a bit. When I say it's your measuring stick for when to add progress or when to make progress, when it's time to progress and weight, if you were to put weight on the bar and you ask yourself, can I do this weight confidently with the same technique? If you most undoubtedly say, no, I can't, then it is too much weight. That is called being safe and being smart about your progress, your weight jump. If you say, I'm gonna add weight to the bar, but I'm gonna squat it a little bit higher. I'm gonna add weight to the bar, but I'm gonna let my butt come off the bench. I'm gonna add weight to the bar, but I'm gonna start hitching up my thighs. I'm gonna round my back over like a rainbow. You are not mastering your technique. You're slapping your technique in the face. You're not even considering it. So by being a measuring stick, you can ask yourself, can I do this weight with the same technique? If the answer is yes, then take the jump. This is a good way to know when you're ready to progress, when it's time to make progress, when it's time to add weight to the bar. When you've done 200 pounds at this given technique, A and B, A to B, A to B, when you can master 200 pounds at this technique and you say, 200 pounds is noticeably easier. It is, the RPE is lower, or I can do more reps with this. I'm ready to add weight at the same technique. That is when you're ready to make progress. And it will keep you safe because the number one predictor of whether or not you are going to injure yourself is load on the bar too quickly, adding weight too quickly. So if I just continue adding weight every session, every single week, and I change my technique every time, you are more likely to injure yourself than if you were to hold your technique, be true to your technique, master your technique, and not add weight until you are confident that you can perform that new weight at this given technique. Okay, where are we now? Number nine, this kind of goes along with number eight, but commandment number nine, never lie to yourself. This refers to lying to yourself about technique, about weight loss, about weight gain. So like I just mentioned with mastering your technique, you can lie to yourself. You're not fooling anyone. Well, you might be fooling someone, but you're not fooling yourself. You might say, oh, I'm getting stronger. Look how much weight I'm adding to the bar, but are you squattinGHigher and higher and higher? Those examples I gave with the bench press and the deadlift. You're adding weight to the bar, sure, but is your butt coming off the bench? Are you bouncing the bar off your chest like a trampoline? Are you rounding your back over excessively during the deadlift? If so, no, you're not getting stronger. You have to be honest with yourself. If you are trying to lose weight and you know deep down, you say, hey, I've lost 20 pounds, look at me, man, how awesome, I'm crushing it. But be honest with yourself. Are you following this, are you crash dieting? Are you following a diet that's not sustainable? And you know deep down in your heart that as soon as you stop this crash diet and you go right back to what you were doing, you're gonna gain it all back in no time. You're lying to yourself. This is not honest weight loss that you can be proud of. If you are trying to build muscle and you say, boy, look at me, I gained 20 pounds, I am crushing it. I'm all aboard the gain tren. But your weightlifting belt is now three notches bigger or your waistline does not fit in your old pants. Maybe you say, man, I went from a size medium t-shirt to a size large t-shirt, but your sleeves aren't getting any tighter, it's the torso that's getting tighter. You're lying to yourself. Be honest with yourself. You are the one that has to go to sleep at night knowing whether or not you are lying to yourself or not. So be honest with yourself in all measures and all aspects of fitness. Okay, here we are. The 10th commandment, my favorite. Go all in. Go all in with powerlifting. Go all in with bodybuilding. Go all in with this fitness journey. Don't be a weekend warrior. Don't view exercise and fitness and gym time as this chore that's at the bottom of the barrel in terms of priorities and you just dread doing it and you always have to figure out how to get it done. You need to go all in. You need to fully buy into this stuff. When you go all in, you will notice that the decisions you make outside of the gym actually affect everything inside the gym. So when you go all in with fitness, you start prioritizing your sleep. You start prioritizing your diet and whatever you're eating because you know that when you sleep well and when you eat well, you perform better in the gym, which makes you feel good. It's this beautiful circle of life. When you eat like crap and when you sleep like crap, you don't perform well in the gym and it's like torture. You hate doing it. That's the relationship that most people have. They're not all in. They just kind of do this thing on the side, just go to the gym every once in a while. They're weekend warriors. They go to the gym when they can, when they have time. They go to the gym seasonally. It never affects anything outside of the gym. They leave the gym doors and they go right back to their bad habits. When you buy in and when you go all in, all of this stuff improves. You become a better husband, father, mother, brother, sister, a better member of society when you go all in with taking care of yourself, with taking care and prioritizing your health. A lot of these commandments that I talked about, don't take breaks, all that kind of stuff, this plays into fitness and exercise, being a part of who I am. I have done it for so long, I will always continue to do it. It is not just something that I do. It is something that is a part of me because I've bought all in, because I'm obsessed with it and I think that it is a healthy thing to really buy all in and I think that once times get tough, because life will get busy and there will be times when trening, going to the gym is an inconvenience. There are other things that might be priority like earning money, feeding your family, spending time with your family, all this kind of stuff. These are higher priority than exercising but because it is so ingrained in you and because you are bought in, you are gonna get through those tough times with a breeze because you're gonna figure out how to get that done. You're gonna figure out how I can continue prioritizing this stuff. It's a part of me, I'm all in, I'm bought in, I'm gonna make it happen. It's gonna get you through tough times when trening is hard, when trening is difficult. I think that's it. Those are my 10 commandments. Thank you very much for watching this whole video. Thank you very much for all the support over the past 10 years. Here's to another 10 years. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren on Time. Time. Okay, as soon as I finished this video, I walked inside and realized I didn't talk about point number eight, master your technique. So I had said that it took me a day of thinking about this, whether or not I wanted to include this commandment in this video or in this list. And the reason is it didn't pop into my head to say, oh, I need to talk about mastering your technique. And here's why. I wear rose-colored glasses. I live in this utopia of optimism when it comes to technique. So I, Untamed Strength is a strength trening gym. It is a power lifting and strength trening gym and strongman and so on. It is in the name of the gym, Untamed Strength. It is not Untamed Fitness. I didn't want it to be Untamed Exercise, Untamed High Intensity trening, Untamed anything. Strength is in the name because I wanted that to be the focus of the gym. So that means that everyone who comes into Untamed Strength is probably somewhat interested in strength. It's not to say that everyone's a power lifter in Untamed Strength, but they are wanting to pursue strength in some fashion. That in and of itself means that they are a certain type of people. It's a certain population that is attracted to Untamed Strength. So when I go out on the floor and I walk around Untamed Strength, I see pretty good technique. For the most part, everyone is using good technique. They're squatting to depth. They're keeping their butt on the bench, touching the bar to their chest, blocking the bar out, dead lifting with good technique. All of these movements are pretty good technique. So I see this and I think, hmm, everyone's technique's pretty good. It seems to be well understood by the population that this is how you do something. This is good technique. I'm gonna lift with good technique. I do a lot of one-time form check sessions. So it's form check consultations. And these are from people in the area or people who are stopping by who are already benching, squatting, dead lifting, overhead pressing. And they are asking for my help. Can I have a form check to make sure I'm doing this correctly? That right there, the fact that they're asking for help. Maybe they've seen one of my YouTube videos or maybe they've done a little bit of research on YouTube to figure out how to do this thing. Just asking, how do I do this movement correctly? That sets them a step ahead general population. So all of these people that I see in my gym as members, the people that I work with, for the most part, are self-selecting. It's not always. Every once in a while, I'll work with someone who's just completely in the dark. Barbell squat? What is that? Show me. But that's not the case for most people. So this is the utopia that I talk about. Everyone has really good technique. And what I find myself talking about more often than master your technique is stop obsessing over your technique. There are plenty of people who have said, Alan, you know, I just, I don't want to add weight to the bar because I feel like, I don't know if my technique is correct. I need to get it checked. IMight be doing something wrong. I'm not making progress. It has to be my technique. I keep hurting myself. It has to be my technique. And I look at their technique and I'm like, you are doing a great job. You're like 90, 95% there. Your technique is flawless. This is excellent technique. The reason you're hurting yourself is because you have a terrible, terrible programming, terrible load management. You're stressed out of your mind outside of this, et cetera. But these people are asking me for help with their technique and their technique looks great. And so I'm often telling them, stop obsessing over your technique. You need new exercises. You have the green light. This is your sign here. Here's the green light. Why are you staying with the same weight for the past eight months? You're good to go. Have some confidence in your abilities. Put some weight on the bar, push hard, tren untamed, continue doing what you're doing. And so I find myself more often than not telling people not to obsess. They suffer from paralysis by analysis. They are their own harshest critic. And so maybe this is why master your technique didn't really pop into my head because I don't often think about that. But if I step outside of untamed strength and I go to Planet Fitness or I go to 24 Hour Fitness or any gym in America or worldwide, any gen pop commercial chain gym, I'm probably gonna see a lot of nonsense. And my view would change. So I think that for the general population, for the majority of people, master your technique is a commandment that you should follow. I'm not gonna tell most people to stop obsessing over your technique. There is a small population of people who need to stop obsessing over their technique. Your technique is not why you're not progressing. It's not why you're getting injured. That's other factors. So master your technique. Also, one more thing that I forgot. Thank you if you've tuned in for this long. I don't even know how long this video's gonna be. But commandment number two, when I said stick to a program for six months, the main thing I forgot to mention was six months is long enough for you to see a change, either an improvement in strength or a change in your body composition. If you have not seen any strength or body composition changes in six months, unless the program is absolute dog crap, it's most likely something else that you need to look for that's outside the scope of this video. But six months is enough to see some noticeable changes in strength or body composition, or both. And so that's what gets you hooked. Don't be the guy or the girl who does a couple of weeks and they're like, I'm not even noticing any changes. I feel the same exact way I did two weeks ago. I quit. Stick with it for six months and you will most definitely, if you're doing the program as written, you are most definitely gonna see some changes. That'll keep you hooked, that'll keep you engaged.