Hey everyone, in this video, I want to reveal 12 new lifts that I've really enjoyed in my routine lately. If you don't want to hear me talk and you want to get straight to the list, just tap fast forward on your phone like 15 times and you'll probably be there. Now, when I say new movements, I don't mean in the sense that they've never been seen before. They're just a little less common than movements you're probably already aware of. I am a creature of habit and I do like my routine. I like doing the same thing day in and day out. But every once in a while, you know, I like a little smoked paprika, a little cayenne pepper to go along with my typical salt, pepper, garlic powder. When you do this stuff day in and day out, week after week, year after year, sometimes you just want to go explore the gym a little bit for a change of scenery. Now, what I'm going to do is list these new movements, tell you what I call them, how to do them, where I incorporate them into my program, as well as some special considerations, if any. The program that I'm doing is natural hypertrophies push pull legs called Doom Slayer. It's actually pull push legs. If you want to see that program in its entirety, you can just YouTube search that. These movements are not specifically from that program, but I have been incorporating them every once in a while. And I just put them in the appropriate slots within that program. So the reason I'm making this video is to give you guys some new movements, because I like learning new movements, some stuff to add to your toolbox, but also because I'll admit sometimes I do still get stuck in the powerlifting, the hyper-specific powerlifting approach and mentality to programming, where if I don't do something that's in the program, I kind of feel bad about it. I feel like less of a man. So for example, today I have to squat, but I really don't feel like squatting. My legs are heavy. Maybe I start squatting and warmups feel like crap, but I got to squat because that's what's in the program. And what am I, what else am I going to do? Not squat? Yeah, dude, you don't have to squat. My paycheck does not depend on my squats. I'm not prepping for a powerlifting meet. If I don't really want, if I really don't want to squat, I can do something else. There are plenty of other movements that are just as effective. There might even be other movements that are more stimulative than squats because it can push them harder. And because I actually want to do them. I also get stuck into this hyper-specific idea of frequency. So if I do a movement, I have to do it twice a week or at least once a week, but not so much anymore. If I want to do a movement every other week or every third week, even do a movement once a month, totally fine. I can do that. I'm not saying that IMake these emotional decisions every time I get to the gym and say, Oh, you know, I really just don't want to do anythinGHard today. I'm going to do some easy stuff. I'm just explaining that I'm a little more flexible with my exercise selection now than I used to be. So let's get to it. New exercise. Number one, floating power shrug. So unlike a regular power shrug, I lower the bar down to just above the floor, almost like a touch and go deadlift, but I'm not actually touching the ground. So yes, doing this reduces the weight that I would use for normal power shrug, but it also increases the range of motion and it increases specifically, it increases the time under tension on my upper back, which is why I'm doing it. I like rotating this in with my block pulls every other week or every third week. So IMight do block pull floating power shrug, block pull floating power shrug or block pull, block pull floating power shrug. I like the control that these demand on the way up and on the lowering phase because it takes quite a bit of balance while you're doing this. I do these for two to three sets, two to three hard sets of six to 10 reps. And again, I'll do these in place of deadlifts or within a program or through in the program I'm doing where I'm supposed to do power shrugs. I'd suggest using straps for these. So you take out grip because it's not in the equation. Sometimes I don't use straps just because I don't want to go grab them. And my hook grip is pretty solid so I can get away with using a hook grip for this stuff. Exercise number two, landmine rows. This exercise was inspired by John Meadows and it's really helped me tren my lats. I tend to use my upper back for a lot of my row variations and the landmine row allows me to pull low towards my hip because the pivot point is behind me and it makes the movement fixed, sort of like a machine. So I can really focus on taking these to failure. I've been enjoying these in place of one arm dumbbell rows that I typically do. I'll do these for three or four sets of eight to 12 reps and I try to take these to failure. So failure is what I consider failure. I'm trying to pull these until I can't get my hand past my knee height. Um, on the, just the last couple of reps. So the last couple of reps might look like pulsinGHalf reps, which is fine. Number three, one arm dumbbell press. So I feel a unique stress on my shoulders when I do these. It's a little bit different than doing them with both arms simultaneously. Maybe that's the instability or it's the fact that I can focus on one arm at a time, but for whatever reason, I like them. I do these on my push day, uh, in place of barbell overhead press. Sometimes after barbell overhead press, IMight do two sets of barbell overhead press and then two sets of these. Uh, so usually if I'm doing them alone, IMight do three to four sets of eight to 12 reps. Sometimes I'll drop down as low as six reps. Number four is a curtsy lunge. I really like doing lunges and I like doing unilateral leg trening. I got this idea from Adriel Mays on Instagram. It's a reverse lunge, but instead of stepping direct, stepping directly back, you, you reach your leg back and behind the leg that's being worked. So as you can see in this video, the first thing I noticed when I started doing this was a huge stretch in the glute, a huge stretch on the glute of the side that's being worked. And I'll be honest, it feels good to move side to side every once in a while. I'm not just front to back with all my exercises. I'll do these on lower body day, usually after squats, but sometimes before I like to kind of warm up with these or even pre fatigue myself before squats. And I'll do two to three sets of eight to 12 reps per leg. If you have not been doing any unilateral trening, I would say one, start with one to two sets cause these can make you extremely sore. Number five sidebands. I got this idea from Alec Blenis after he posted just watchinGHim on Instagram, but also after watchinGHis ab trening, uh, YouTube video. And let me tell you this exercise is more than it looks. It is just a side bend, but it's on a 45 degree back extension. The first time I did this, I went into a thing and I'm going to add some weight because I'm pretty strong, but I noticed that my range of motion, my side to side range of motion is not great. It was challenging on my obliques just with body weight, but I really, the movement really provided a good stretch for my hips and my rib cage. Um, so again, instead of adding weight, I just figure I'm going to try to reach for more range of motion from rep to rep from set to set and even from session to session. I'll super set these with squats or deadlifts. I like doing ab trening. I like to contrast ab trening with spinal loaded movements like squats and deadlifts. I'll do three sets of 10 to 15 reps per side. And number six, one arm hangs. Ode Haugen and Mark Felix are both grip gods. If you didn't know, they both have said the best exercise for forearms and for grip strength hangs, body weight hangs, one arm hangs, even weighted hangs, just hanging on a bar. Doing these one handed obviously makes the movement more difficult, but a hidden benefit, I guess, or a hidden challenge is the stress on your shoulder. When you're hanging with one arm, your shoulder is working really hard isometrically to not let your shoulder rip out of the socket. Uh, these are in the program that I'm following. They're supersetted with tricep work. You can really implement them whenever you'd like. Um, maybe not on a pull day cause they are pretty fatiguing on your grip. Go figure. I'll do these for one to three sets of max time. I think grip strength can be stubborn and it needs to be taken to failure to obtain any sort of benefit. So doing lots of submaximal work, doesn't really work in this situation. Number seven, commando knees to elbows. So I am wearing underwear. The reason it's called commando is because a commando pull up is where you grab a bar like this and you do pull ups. But I'm doing a commando grip knees to elbows. Um, I don't think that all ab work needs to be endless pulsing reps, super high reps. It can't be lower reps. It can be more difficult movements. It can even be weighted movements. I really feel this exercise in particular deep in my abdominal muscles and my obliques and my serratus muscles. I like to do these strict and with minimal swing and because for me personally, 75% of my total body weight is my lower body. These are pretty challenging. Um, if you can't do 10 body weight pull ups around that, I don't think this is a movement for you because your lack of pull up strength is really going to limit you here. I'll do six to eight slow and controlled reps trying to bring my elbows all the way up to trying to move my knees all the way up to my elbows. And once I can no longer do that, I'll just still do some knee raises until failure until maybe 10 to 12 total reps. I like doing these before, sometimes after my pull ups or lap pull downs. Number eight, dumbbell high poles. So I was inspired to do these by Alec on Kiri. Uh, he explains this better than I do, but basically the explosive nature of these allow me to really overload my traps. And another benefit you might not realize is the, the stretch, the added stretch because I have to reach across my body to get the dumbbell between my legs, puts some stress on my mid back. I was sore in my mid back where I'm usually not after doing this for the first time. Uh, you've got to breathe and bracEQuickly between reps and you have to work to decelerate the dumbbell. While it doesn't look like I'm decelerating the dumbbell much, I am. You have to decelerate the dumbbell and then reverse that energy backup for the next rep. So because you are decelerating the dumbbell, make sure that you're easing into this exercise. Don't do too much too soon because you might piss off your elbows. Uh, obviously when you do this and use a strap because you don't want to drop a bell on your foot. I superset these after lap pull downs or machine high rows. So that push pull legs program, doom slayer program, you do upright rows supersetted with the lap pull downs and the machine high rows. And I still do, I don't do these every week. I still do plenty of strict upright rows too. Uh, but when I'm wanting to toss around some weight, I'll do them for two to four sets of 10 to 12 reps per arm. Number nine, GHD sit ups for all of my life. I have hated sit ups because my hip flexors take over and it just feels like a hip flexor exercise. Max crunches in the Marine Corps. Made my hip flexors hard as stone. I do enjoy straight leg sit ups on the ground. I do straight leg sit ups and add a little bit of difficulty or just to lower the reps. I'll hold a plate up and I'll kind of do my extension there or my sit up there that feels better on my hip flexors. But doing them on the GHD just adds a range of motion that you can't get into if you're laying on the ground. I like to superset these with deadlifts to pair some spinal flexion of the deadlift with spinal extension of these, um, sit ups on the GHD. I try not to fling my upper body up with momentum. I try not to throw my hands up. Um, I just use my abs to lift my upper body up and I will do three to four sets of these for max reps and max reps just means once it can no longer perform strict strict reps. Once I have to use momentum, I'll call that failure. Number 10 paused banded Romanian deadlifts. This movement is pretty extra, but let me explain. I think of RDLs as a good upper back movement, obviously along with being a good hamstring movement. But to put a little more stress on my upper back, I've added a band to these. So as you pull against the band towards the top, um, the weight is it gets a lot heavier than it is at the bottom. So, you know, there might be 300 pounds at the bottom and then 400 pounds of tension at the top. Since the weight is lighter at the bottom, IMake that portion more difficult and make that portion of the lift more difficult by just pausing at the bottom. Uh, but with all that said, the main reason I do this is because I have awesome MB power center platforms and I want to put them to good use and these look pretty cool. So I've done these in the six to 12 rep range. And what I'll do is start at that higher rep range. But once I've added enough weight and my reps dropped down to like six reps with the pause, I'll try to repeat it the next week without the pause and see if that adds a couple more reps onto that, uh, six reps. Number 11, uh, what is it? Spider curls on a preacher bench. Uh, I do not like spider curls. I do not like dumbbells, spider curls. I just have a hard time pushing them to failure. Maybe it's use your air. Maybe I'm doing something wrong. I just feel like I, every time I'm doing them, I'm thinking there's probably a better exercise I could do than this. But I saw a video of John Meadows doing them this way and I had to try and I really like it. I've been liking it. So I'm standing backwards on a preacher curl pad, trying to let my elbows hang straight down and then I'm curling and pulling the bar overhead at the top. The pad behind my elbows prevents me from pulling my elbows back and kind of just turning into a row and rolling the weight up. It also provides some support for my elbows so I can really grind out reps on these spider curls. But the main reason I'm showing you this exercise is so I can show off this awesome standing preacher curl bench. These will be done for eight to 12 reps, but sometimes I do dip down in a six or seven rep range. I'm going to include another set where I wanted to show you when the bench is set higher, you'll notice that my elbows are more forward and when they're more forward, this is just feels like a standard preacher curl, but I have to put the bench low so that my elbows point straight down, which feels more like a spider curl to me. And number 12, reverse milk the cows. So I'm only adding this movement to show off this bar that I'm using. It is from Arm Assassin Strength Shop. I think it's called a napalm curl bar and these parallel handles rotate. So when you're doinGHammer curls with this thing, you can turn your wrist at the top, kind of like a, I think it's meant for arm wrestlers, but I've been using them for lying overhead tricep extensions. The parallel grip and this bar, the way it's shaped, it prevents me from bringing the bar over my head and my neck at the top because that just feels awkward. It's hard to hold onto when you pull it that far forward. So the stress never leaves my triceps. The stress stays in my triceps because I'm not pulling the bar over my face or neck and the parallel grip feels really comfortable to me. It's like using dumbbells, feels better on my wrists, but unlike dumbbells, it's a fixed bar. So I can really go ham on this movement and grind out reps way beyond what I normally do. I have used an SSB before. It's the same concept that feels good, but the SSB is cumbersome and it's sometimes difficult to use. Now, uh, it's also, this bar has an attachment so you can do pull downs or I could do cable tricep extensions. I just haven't tried that yet. I do these for as many reps as it takes to get my feet to start dancing. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren On!