This is Alan Thrall reporting live from Untamed trening Gym in Sacramento, California. This is trening vlog number three in preparation for California's Strongest Man 2025. Stay tuned to watch me tren on dad lockdown, set a record-breakingbreakinging time limit on my five-to-five, fail some reps, try out some new equipment, and eat some peculiar but delicious breakfast. All right, getting ready for trening day five. This morning I'm having the ultimate bowl of overnight oats. We've got oatmeal, hemp seeds, flax seeds, vanilla, pea protein, almond milk, almond butter, banana, blueberries, some cinnamon, cashews. I forgot to mention that I also added nonfat plain Greek yogurt. I think that's it. All mixed into this, sits overnight, ready to go first thing in the morning. I love oatmeal. Just a bowl of good slop. Oh yeah. All right, today is day five. The way that this week shook out was Sunday was my day one, Monday was day two, Tuesday was off run, Wednesday was day three, Thursday was day four, Friday was off run, Saturday was completely off. I just didn't have time to tren. My son's birthday, just a very busy day. And so Sunday is day five. Now, this morning I was getting ready to go to the gym, just kind of lost track of time, and I was getting a bit carried away with doing emails and online programming and working with clients and stuff like that. And so anyways, busy on my computer. As I'm leaving, my son wakes up, my daughter wakes up earlier than normal. She's crying. And I thought, I can't just dip out and take off right now. So I had to call an audible, figure out what I'm going to do here at home. I'm going to do this live. So if I fail and fall on my face, I'll post it. My day five planned was truck pull and stones. So I was not planning on pulling a truck. I was just going to do the upper body portion of that, which I was going to do some rope climbs. So truck pull demands conditioning, leg strength, but also a lot of upper body and arm strength because you're pulling on a forward rope. So I was going to do some rope climbs and I decided I would just do some pull-ups in the attic on the two by fours in my garage because I can use a very similar kind of grip as when I'm pulling a forward rope. So I did that. The extra, the two by four kind of adds to the grip part of it, as well as toughening up my hands, holding onto a piece of wood rather than a clen piece of powder coated metal. And I wanted to do a little bit of extra upper body today. So I super set it with some dips, felt fine on my shoulder because it wasn't overhead. The dips weren't supposed to be extremely taxing. I don't want to be really sore for my day one. So I did just sets of kind of explosive dips, just trying to movEQuickly. After that for stones, I don't have Atlas stones here, but I do have some rocks in my yard. And so I was just doing, you know, sets of 10 of these kind of one motion stones, rolling it to my chest, standing up, and it felt great. Sets of 10 with that. Okay. How many? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. And then after that, I wanted to do some arms. And what I had planned to do was kettlebell curls, where you hold one kettlebell, you hold the round part of a kettlebell and you do curls. Great for your biceps, but also adds a little bit of grip. And I think it's kind of specific to an Atlas stone. It takes the finger strength. You're like holding a tiny little Atlas stone. So I figured I would do it with a small rock. It was awesome. It worked really, really well. So overall, I got an excellent workout in at home. I forgot to mention I did jumps. I did jumps beforehand and I did these forward, left, forward, right, non-linear, forward, lateral jumps that I got from Will Ratel. He recently posted him doing those on Instagram. So, all right, kicking off week two, day one. This morning's breakfast, sourdough toast with peanut butter, only because I'm out of almond butter, sliced bananas and some egg. That's good stuff. This morning, I'm doing single leg tuck jumps for height. As farfetched as it sounds, I think this really helps with yoke walk. When you're carrying max weight on your back and you're trying to move fast, trying to flex your hips with a bunch of weight on your back, you need stronGHip flexors that can movEQuickly if you're trying to improve your yoke speed. So I think that this really helps pulling that knee up fast, flexing your hip really fast. That was my hand. This setup, as you just saw, is not intimidating at all because you're just going to knock over if I fail. I'm not trying to jump up to a box that doesn't move. Okay, good enough for today. I'm going to use the big boys today, the 65 pound bumpers, about 30 kilo bumpers. Okay, today's workout trening plan, pretty much the same thing as last week. I did some jumps, just a different style. I'm doing some clens. I'm going to do the same complex that felt really good last week, so maybe I'll build on it this week, we'll see. And then I'm going to do front squats, some pin press with a different bar today, and then some more sled pushes. You want to look really cool, put on these reds, 25 kilos, IMean five pounds. I should work this into the thumbnail somehow. Feels way better when I re-hook grip after the first power clen. I can really put a lot into the bar. I'm not losing it in my fingers. So with my weight selection, I don't care about the weight on the bar, I really don't. I don't care what I used to do, I don't care what I really want to do, I just don't even worry about the weight, it's irrelevant to me. So with that said, last week I did 242 on this complex, so today I'm doing 245. I have to, otherwise what's the point? IMean you got to strike when the iron's hot, right? So I'm always pressed for time, but that doesn't mean I'm not determined to get this done. You want to slide this in for me real quick? That's what she said, thanks dude. All right, so I figured just putting some blocks underneath the weight that I'm already using for this clen complex to do my front squats was best. My front squat and my clen are like, my front squat working weight for sets of five to eight are around the same weight, so I'm going to use the same weight, just pop it up on blocks instead of taking all the weight off, move it to a rack, and so on. 15 minutes, five rep sets, as many sets of five, as many sets of four to five reps as I can in 15 minutes. Woo! Five by five, five sets of five in 15 minutes. That is a perfect, what I call, et modem, every third minute on the minute, basically, set of five. So with these reps, trying my best to keep my hips underneath me, the vertical torso, knees stay forward, I'm trying to use my legs. I don't want my hips to squirt back and back lever it up. Try and think strong legs. This is more for stone loads and overhead press than anything. I think that's a testament to being conditioned. You can do your five sets of five in a shorter period of time, and I'm not saying it has to be 15 minutes, but if it's taking you an hour or 75 minutes, man, I think being a little better conditioned, you can cram in more sets because all those sets other than the last one, very similar effort, and I was able to repeat that five times every three minutes. Anyways. Okay, I'm back after a one hour break. Just had to take care of some things. My life has been incredibly busy lately, and it's not a complaint, just an observation. I think when I'm seven years old and things slow down, I'll enjoy it then, but for now, I'm going to keep on keeping on. I actually do enjoy being busy. I've just been incredibly busy, so much so that I started wearing diapers during my trening sessions because I don't even have time to poop. If you're looking for a neutral grip bar, this is the best one that I have. I have like six of them. This is the best one. The main reason is this narrow center, so when you do overhead press, you can keep the bar right against your throat, right against your neck like you would a normal barbell. You don't have to press with it way out here, and then when you bench press with it, that little narrow spot touches your chest and your hands don't wobble around, whereas with a different neutral grip bar that's the same width all the way across, it's just so cumbersome when you hit your chest. It wants to like wobble and your wrists move because it's this big surface area touching your chest. This is very clen, and a lot of people prefer the neutral grip for presses and for benching. It also has a narrow handle, wide handles. They're knurled. It's actually knurled right here, so you can do overhead extensions or you can do easy bar curls here with grip on your hands. Very nice bar. Now, I got it from American Barbell, a company called American Barbell. Companies switch out, phase out, or upgrade their equipment so often just to stay relevant, I think, that a lot of the stuff I have isn't available anymore, and I don't know if this same bar is available. I saw that they had one, but the handles are slanted, and I don't know if I would like that much. I think a company, I've seen this company because I referred someone to it, to this bar. I think T-Grip was a company that had this bar or something similar to this, so anyways. For today's tank pushes, I'm not going to do fewer higher intense sets. I'm going to do more lower intense sets, so I'm going to do 15 minutes pretty much just non-stop. I'm going to go push forward, push down, backwards, push back, and I'm just going to keep that up for 15 minutes straight. So, the key to this oatmeal is you got to put the fruit. I put blackberries, blueberries, banana. You got to put the fruit in right away with the oats. Let it cook with the oats, and that's all the sweetness you need. A little bit of cinnamon also, and then I put egg whites on top of my oatmeal. Now, I know you might be thinking, Alan, you doing okay? Is there something wrong with you? Hear me out. Egg whites are flavorless. They're a blank canvas. Do whatever you want with them, and then with this, I have a crumpet, a little bit of peanut butter. I still don't have almond butter. I need to go get some, and I think not having almond butter has been really negatively affecting my performance in the gym. So, for my explosive upper body movement today, I'm not doing the dumbbell snatch. I'm going to do these plyometric push-ups. So, shoulder feels pretty good. Feels normal, back to 100%, I say. The pin press from day one didn't bother it. The day after day one, it was fine. So, now that it's feeling good, I'm going to push as hard as I freaking can to make it not good again. So, for overhead press, it's important to have tension throughout the entire movement. So, you want some tension in the bands at the start. You don't want just completely floppy bands with no tension, and then, of course, you want tension at the top. So, to calibrate this, this triangle, I have this distance, one, two, and then three on the bar. You can just make these pegs wider, and that will increase the tension on the bands. Or, if you had one band that's a little more stretched than the other, and you can feel it during warm-ups, just increase one side, the distance on the triangle base on one side, to make it a little snugger on the looser side. So, the plan for today is the explosive push-ups that I already did, some push press with bands, and then some sort of deadlift. I have a new piece of equipment called a V-slide, which you'll see. I'm going to test that out today. That most likely will be my deadlift for the day, and then some lats and some arms. Today is primarily, day two is primarily an upper body day with a little bit of deadlifting. Yes! I think that this stuff helps with event trening because when you do a truck pull with a full rope, your arms are going to be exhausted, your lats are going to be exhausted, and so this helps. Not using straps helps with grip endurance. Carrying a sandbag for 100 feet when you're exhausted takes a lot of squeezing strength, so this high rep drop set stuff that lasts, you know, two, three, four minutes, I think is helpful.