 Okay, we did it, we had a baby, we're heading home from the hospital, right now, bringing our total kid count to two, day one, time to party. Day one update, we are on a walk, just got home today, so unpacking things, getting settled in, getting the baby used to new surroundings. Day one update, uh, mommy is at home, uh, mommy is at home, resting, recovering, and healing, so I don't think I'm gonna get my three hour strongman training session today. Just taking any opportunity that I can to do something, so we are currently trying to walk. She desperately needs a walk. And if I get any other opportunity to do something else, today I will. Dinner's in the oven, I've got ten minutes. I'm gonna do ten push-ups, five pull-ups, on the minute every minute for ten minutes. That's a hundred push-ups and fifty pull-ups, let's see if I can do it. Okay, there you go, ten minutes. I wasn't able to do all that every minute on the minute, because it started taking me a full minute to do. So, I got like seven, seven or eight sets. Good enough. Check out this training music. Max hype. Alright, day two. We got about two hours of sleep last night. Uh, mom got even less than that. So, we're doing okay now. See what today brings. A lot of downtime on the newborn, and I could sit here and scroll on my phone for the next ten minutes, or do something. So, I'm gonna do some body weight lunges. I'm not just doing this for the camera. This is honestly something that I would do, whether or not I was making this video. I did a little upper body yesterday, so... I'll do a little lower body right now. Here we go. Six minutes. 100 body weight lunges. I'm actually sweating pretty good. Let's see. My rate was at 130. And just like that, the gentle rocking of walking lunges. Put her to sleep. Eh! My rocket! I want my blue one! Want your blue jacket? Yeah. You want my blue jacket, please? I want my blue rocket, please. Mama's at home feeding the baby. We are out for another walk at a blazing sleep. Okay, got this nice hill. I'm doing squat jumps up. Ten times. Ten sets. Let's go. So, I know this looks like I'm neglecting my son. I'm working out when I should be spending time with him, but it took me less than ten minutes. It was productive. And honestly, he's perfectly content up there, playing with his own imagination. So, he's good. Alright, the whole thing was asleep. It's about 2200, 10 PM, and it's a perfect time for me to knock out my first weight training session since the baby's been home. It's day two, the end of day two. I'm going to do some myoreps. Myoreps, I've made a video about this in the past. I'll link it if you want to go check out a little more about it. Myoreps is where you do a large primer set. So, you'll do a straight set of 15 to 20 reps. You'll rest a very short period of time, 20 to 30 seconds. And then, you'll do, for example, five reps with the same weight. Rest the same amount of time, 20 to 30 seconds, five reps. Rest 20 to 30 seconds, five reps. And you do a certain number of back offsets. So, today, I did 15 reps, rested 30 seconds, and then five sets of five. I made sure that those 30 seconds, I was beginning my next set. I wasn't getting under the bar 30 seconds. I was starting my next set. So, really, about 20, 25 seconds, I could get under the bar and get ready. Admittedly, this was pretty light. This was definitely not an RPE seven or eight. I've done myoreps for squats with 365 pounds. But it was just what I needed. I did a set of squats, a myoset of squats, rested a few minutes, and then a myoset of Romanian deadlifts or kind of these stiff leg deadlifts. It felt awesome. So, what's the point of all this? These workouts are so scaled back. It's such a fraction of what I normally do. But it's probably not making that much of a dent. At least each single workout is not making that much of a difference. But I like to think about each of these small workouts as a contribution to a piggy bank. Sometimes it might be a penny. Sometimes a dime. Sometimes a quarter. Sometimes a whole dollar bill. And whenever I get back to normal training, normal routine, I'm going to cash that piggy bank in. And I would much rather have a full piggy bank and an empty one. I'm going to go to the next one. Day four of life. And day three since being home. And we're at the doctor's. Back at the doctor's office. Just for a check out for the inside. I'm ready. Day three, two, one. Day number three. Walk number 300. So, the whole gang's here for this one. Walk is right over here. Mommy's at home taking advantage of this quiet time. I've had no opportunities today to do any sort of exercise. But that's okay. I think the hardest part about all this is keeping everyone happy. I kind of feel like I'm juggling. But with that, I think the more I practice, the better I'm getting. I don't think I've mentioned it yet on this YouTube channel. But I have mentioned much on my Instagram. I've been running recently. And so, I'm going to go for a run. The time is 23.30. Just before midnight. Time to go put these legs to work. The fun thing about recording running is you do twice as much running. Because you run away and you have to come back and get the camera. good luck. A great part about running at midnight on a Sunday evening, Monday morning, no distractions. No traffic, no text messages, no phone calls, just the sound of my breath and my feet hitting the pavement. Just enough to get the shoulder reins firing. I'll call it a night. Alright, so today is day four since we brought the baby home and it has been the most challenging day by far. I'm not going to go into, you know, details. I don't want to get too personal. I want to keep this video kind of training related and I want to keep some privacy in my home. But if you're watching this, you know, waiting for your baby to get here, your first baby is on the way, second baby, whatever the case. When times get hard, just remember that that's okay, that's normal and it's expected. Everyone goes through this so you're not alone in that. As I'm training late at night, I'm thinking to myself, why exactly am I doing this? Why am I so obsessed with exercising and working out? Why am I being so strict with keeping a routine? Why don't I just let it go for a few weeks or for a month or so? It's not that I'm this exercise fanatic and I just have to burn calories. While I do like exercising and I do, you know, want to take care of my health, that's not the main reason. I need to remain strong and I don't just mean physically. I need to be stronger than my wife. I need to be stronger than my three-year-old son. I need to be stronger than my new daughter. When times get tough, I need to be the rock that keeps everyone grounded and keeps us moving in the right direction. If I'm weak, the household would just be a bunch of blubbering crybabies. So I need to remain strong. And by doing these things, by going on a run at midnight while everyone else is asleep, when I could be sleeping, I instead go work out. By doing this, I feel like I'm staying one step ahead of everything. And I feel like I am in charge. I am in control. I'm not just being pushed around by, you know, life circumstances. I am stronger than this situation. And I think that it's empowering for me to do this. And this is why I continue to do it. I'm also doing it in solidarity with everyone else in the world who's going through tough times or who has got a newborn baby, their second baby. They're too busy to work out and exercise. And they feel like they're overwhelmed. I never have time to exercise. I never have time to train. I'm right here doing it. I'm going through it myself. I am experiencing it. And I feel like this is going to better equip me to help others who are in this situation in the future. Day four is Monday. And on Monday, I host a straw man class on team strength a few times a week, actually. And I've missed the last couple of straw man classes because I've been gone with the baby at the hospital. Thankfully, one of the members and a good friend of mine, Preston DJ Anabolic, stepped up and he ran the classes, did an awesome job while I was gone. But I'm back now. I figured I'll kill two birds with one stone, hop in and do the class with everyone else, host the class as well as do the class and get my workout in so I don't have to do it tonight. So this was about 45, 50 minutes of work. I just forgot to stop my stopwatch and it ran over to about an hour. But a lot of fun. I'm excited to train with some other people. Let's go. So before we had our son in 2019, I took a DEXA scan just to check my body fat percentage for a YouTube video. And when you get a DEXA scan done, they tell you how much muscle is in each limb, both arms and your legs and your trunk. And it's listed in grams. Well, my right arm was bigger than my left arm. It's not surprising. I'm right-handed. I got another DEXA scan done a year later, a little over a year later for another YouTube video. And my left arm now had the same amount of muscle, nearly the same amount of muscle as my right arm. And I was thinking about it for a long time. How did that happen? I didn't do anything different in my training. I didn't do any direct left arm work. And then it hit me. Doing these isometric baby holds for a whole entire year. Progressive overload, by the way. Made my arm bigger. My left arm as big as my right arm. All right. It's just after 10 p.m. Today has been a very busy day. My son's been asleep for a little while now. My wife and daughter, new baby, are just starting their first shift of the night. I had to run off to the gym for gym owner stuff. Once I'm done with that, I'm going to head home, check on them, see if they're okay, if they need help. And then hopefully at some point tonight, I'll get an opportunity to exercise my muscles and lift some weights. Having this little bit of equipment in the garage has been extremely helpful. This is just old equipment from Untamed Strike that's damaged and so I brought it to my garage. I don't have to up and leave the house. I can just come out in the garage and do a quick workout. So if you are anticipating your first child and you want to continue training, I would suggest looking for some equipment now. It does not have to be nice, fancy, or expensive. It can be dirty, rusty, old junk equipment. Anything will do. A great way to get a decent amount of work in throughout the day is just to do a set of exercises every hour throughout the day. So I've got my alarm set for 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. An alarm set every hour. So whenever my watch buzzes for that alarm, I'll drop and do 20 push-ups. So 20 push-ups every hour for 12 hours throughout the day is 240 total push-ups. It takes me like 20, 30 seconds to do 20 push-ups. So it really doesn't take any time. I just make it happen and it's a decent amount of work. This video has been more vlog style where I just get the camera out and talk. But I do want to make a more formal video about my suggestions for training and nutrition if you are going to be a new parent soon or just anyone who's pressed for time and does not have extra time to train. So I think I'm going to make that video. Stand by for that. It will be much more in-depth and thoughtful than this one. Stand by for that.