try this shoulder and upper back progression next time you plan on putting a barbell overhead, squatting it, or if you plan on front squatting it, especially if you plan on front squatting it. This exercise progression involves kettlebell shoulder presses, kettlebell overhead squats, and a kettlebell SOTS press. A SOTS press is an overhead press from the bottom of a squat, popularized by a Russian weightlifter named Victor SOTS. It's always the Eastern European guys who get to name these exercises. I was inspired to create this exercise progression that I've been using for a couple of months now. I created it, patent pending. I was inspired by Dan John, listening to him talk about how he views the shoulders as having individual suspension, which is just a fun kind of quirky way of saying that if you are prone to shoulder issues when you press a barbell overhead or when you press a fixed machine, try doing some unilateral work with dumbbells or kettlebells, one arm presses, so that each shoulder and each arm can move independently. I have five levels for this progression because five is a perfect number. I would suggest doing four to eight reps per arm at each of these levels. Level one is a standing alternating kettlebell press. I like to start with the kettlebells under my chin, sort of in front of my body, and then one at a time I'll press and rotate the kettlebell to lock out directly over my shoulder joint. I like to think about having my bicep in line with my ears at the top. I'll do a couple of sets with ascending kettlebell weights until I feel like I'm using an appropriate amount of weight. Level two, standing alternating kettlebell press with offhand up. This is the same as level one, except now the offhand doesn't get a break. It has to stabilize at the top while the other hand performs its rep. Level three, a one-armed overhead squat. With the kettlebell in one hand, press overhead and then perform a deep squat. You're probably going to need to place your heels on some sort of raised surface, like a plate, some wedges, or even just at the edge of a platform. The overhead squat places a huge demand on your upper back, forcing you to extend it as best as you can. If you have a naturally kyphotic posture or a rounded upper back, this is going to be very difficult. Just do your best. Many people blame a poor overhead position for lack of shoulder mobility, when oftentimes it's a rounded upper back that's to blame. Level four, a one-armed SOTS press. Now you're going to produce some force at the bottom of a squat, which is a less than ideal position to do so. Just like the standing one-armed overhead press, I like to rotate the kettlebell as I press, holding each lockout for one second. You can perform this with one kettlebell at a time, or do a wielding with two kettlebells, alternating sides. Level five, a double kettlebell SOTS press. At the bottom of a squat, press both kettlebells to lockout simultaneously. When you press one kettlebell, you have freedom to twist your body in order to reach lockout. You don't have that freedom when both arms are pressing simultaneously. This demands full extension of your upper back and full flexion of your shoulders. Now you don't need to be at level five today. Work your way up to whatever level you're comfortable with. Stay there as long as you need to. You could use dumbbells for this instead of kettlebells. I just like the way the kettlebell feels, because when the kettlebell's in my hand, the weight is behind my wrist, and so that pulls my arm back into a better position when it's overhead. You can perform this progression as often as you'd like, especially if it's really light at first. It's not going to be very stressful. Do it a few times a week. One thing I really like about this progression is that it doesn't feel like a waste of time. It doesn't feel like I'm in a physical therapy rehab setting doing some really silly corrective exercises that don't really stress me. These can be hard. These can be heavy. I can use this as a workout rather than thinking of it as prehab or rehab exercises. I can load this progressively over time. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember, tren on time.