 What's up everyone, i'm Allen thrall, here in my garage, with all these weights, and you know what's even better than weights? Knowledge. I'm just kidding, that's not true. The sun is starting to crack the sky, the family is still asleep, perfect time to make a new YouTube video. In this video today, I'm going to be giving you four tips for training when you are pressed for time. This video is specifically for new parents, but it can be helpful for students, someone with a busy or hectic work schedule, business owners, and so on. My wife and I recently had our second child, a baby girl, so now we have a newborn girl and a three year old boy in the house. And between taking care of them, running a business, and trying not to let my relationship with my wife fall apart, I have not had very much time to train. But I still am. Here's some things that have helped me fit my training into a busy schedule. Tip number one, be flexible. And I'm not talking about touching your toes. You've got to be opportunistic. Gone are the days of you holding on to a strict routine. Monday, I squat at 6pm. Tuesday, I bench press at 4pm. Wednesday, rest day. Thursday, I deadlift on lunch break. Not anymore. What if you planned on squatting at 6pm on Monday, but the family's at home having a meltdown, the house is on fire, the family dog escaped out the front door, and you need to come save the day. Maybe you're like me and you used to train at 5am every day and you want to hold on to that routine. But, you've got a newborn at the house and the kids were up from 11pm to 1am and then 3am to 5am. Or maybe the longest chunk of sleep time for your newborn is 5am to 9am. I would suggest sleeping during that time if that's the only opportunity you get to sleep. You can be a hard charger for a short period of time and get by on 2 hours of sleep per night while sticking to your routine, but not for long. It's not sustainable. Trust me. You've got to be opportunistic. Take advantage of any open windows that pop up throughout the day. These are your new best times to train. If both kids are napping, train. If mom unexpectedly takes the baby to grandparents' house, train. Don't say to yourself, well, you know, I could train now, but I'd rather do it later. Because there might not be later. I'm kind of tired right now. I'll nap and train later. And later turns into never. Well, you know, today's supposed to be my rest day, but the family's gone doing something. I'm home alone. So, you know, I'll just take this rest day and hit it hard tomorrow. And then, surprise, there is no tomorrow. There is no tomorrow! I don't care if it's your rest day or if you didn't plan on working out. If you have time to train, do it. By trying to be rigid and sticking to your old routine, you only succeed if things go exactly how you planned them. By being flexible, bobbing and weaving, rolling with the punches, countering, you will win the fight because nothing can stop you. So train twice per day. Train five days in a row. Go for a long run and then do squats right after. If you have the opportunity, take it. Don't voluntarily take a day off because you might be forced into taking the next four days off. You never know. Do as much as you can, as often as you can. It'll make up for the times when you have to take a few days off. Stop saying, I'll train when things slow down. I'll start exercising once my life slows down, once work slows down, once I have more free time. Guess what? Things never slow down. Just assume that your situation never gets easier. If you continue waiting until your life slows down or until things get easier, you're going to be perpetually frustrated, out of shape, weak, and maybe even a little depressed if this is something that you really care about. You might not have time to train for the Olympics. I get that. But you need to make the best training decision you can for this moment in your life. If that means doing a 5x5 on bench press in 20 minutes, running two miles around the block, or doing 50 push-ups, fine. Take what you can. Continuing to exercise in some capacity is going to keep you in shape and healthy. That's most important. But it's going to improve your mental state if training is something that you care about. And because you're watching this video, I assume it is. It's going to better prepare you for a time when training can be a higher priority. When you do get a chance to train for a competition or chase some PRs. Life has its ebbs and flows. There will be times when you're busier than normal. There will be times when you have more free time than normal. But stop trying to predict exactly when those times will be. Tip number two. Write down a few weight training workouts, a few bodyweight workouts, and a few cardio workouts. Having your workouts pre-planned or written down means that you are prepared to train if the time arises. Don't get stuck saying, hmm, well, I've got some time to train. You know, what should I do? Instead, just pick a workout that you already wrote down. If you find yourself fortunate enough that you have the time to go to the gym, do the weight training workout. If you're with your kids and you don't have access to weights, do the bodyweight workout. Squats, push-ups, jumping jacks, lunges. Do some prison shit. Are you on lunch break and you don't want to do jumping jacks in front of your workplace because you'll look like a freak? Go for a 20-minute run. Does your kid need a nap? Put him or her in the stroller and go for a run. Two birds with one stone. Tip number three. Workout every day. That's right. Train every single day. I'm tired of saying, hey, you know, one workout a week is better than nothing. Then do something every single day. You don't need to lift weights for 90 minutes every single day, but you should strive for 20 to 30 minutes of moderate exercise every day. When looking at your whole weekly routine, the duration of your workouts might decrease from what they used to be, but the frequency should increase. This is something that Mark Novak often talks about on his Instagram page, The Strong Dad Club. Highly suggest giving it a follow. Maybe you used to work out four times per week, all 60-minute sessions. That's four hours per week. Now, you might shorten the duration of those sessions to 30 minutes, but you increase the frequency to seven days a week. 30 minutes a day, seven days a week. That's still three and a half hours of total exercise time for the whole week. From a performance standpoint, if you're used to traditional powerlifting, strongman, or just general strength training programming like myself, trying to train every day is a good way for me to maintain weekly volume. Upper body training, for example, usually requires a lot of weekly volume for me. And instead of doing three upper body exercises in one session a couple times per week, I can do one upper body exercise every day if I need to. And it's not always weights. It can be push-ups, pull-ups, or overhead carries. And training every day can be a time for you to improve some weaknesses. Maybe you don't lift weights or do resistance training seven days a week, but a couple of those days you can do some cardio. Tip number four, perform exercises that require the least amount of setup and that allow for the easiest transitions. Take, for example, overhead press and squats. I've got a bar set up right here, so I'm going to use this as an example. If I was to do overhead press right now, I'd start with the empty barbell and I'd warm up with it. Add a little bit of weight, do my sets. Let's say I worked up to 135 pounds as my top set for overhead press. Finish that, immediately put the bar on my back and start squatting it. That's my first warm-up weight for squats. And then I'd carry on with my squat workout. So I've got the same rack, the same bar, the same weights. Last set of 135 for overhead press. First set 135 for squats. I got no time wasted for transitions. Taking the weight on and off. Moving squat racks. Adjusting equipment. Smooth sailing. Sometimes I'll do some power cleans from the floor. And let's say I ended with 185 pounds. Now I'll start my deadlifts with the same weight. Same bar, same platform, same carpet, whatever you're deadlifting on. Same everything. Again, no time wasted setting equipment up, putting equipment away, taking weight on and off. Just smooth, easy transitions from one exercise to the next. If you have weight in your garage, leave the barbell set up in the rack for squats. Leave 135 pounds on the floor for deadlifts. Have your J-hook set up, your bench set up, your barbell set up. Everything is just asking to be lifted. Just the other day, I was bringing in groceries through the garage into the kitchen. And I knew I wanted to bench press later on that evening. So as I walked by, set up the J-hooks at the height I needed. Got some groceries. Set up the barbell. Brought the groceries inside. Grab some more groceries. Set up the bench. Brought the groceries inside. So every time I passed through the garage, I just set up one piece of equipment. So that later on, when dinner's cooking or when I have some time, I can just fly out here and do my bench press sessions. And no, I don't take all my groceries in in one trip because right now, at this point in my life, I believe that volume is more important than intensity. So I take as many trips as I can. Anyway, transition between exercises, setup, and cleanup can be a time zap. So eliminate it if possible. With that said, if you are going to store your barbell in the rack, don't put weights on it. If you're going to put the barbell on a deadlift jack, don't leave weights on it. Even if it's only 135 pounds, over time, your barbell will start to warp and bend if there's weight left on it. Stay tuned for my next video. It might not be the very next video, but close enough. I'm going to talk about my biggest diet and nutrition tip for new parents. Thanks for watching. Always remember, trend on time. I'm going to talk about my biggest diet and nutrition tip for new parents.