Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall and in this video I want to give you some tips for those of you who want to incorporate running into your lifting routine. Now, I've already talked about in depth what I did in the past when I started running again, so I'll only briefly cover it here, but basically I just continued lifting as normal. I started running twice a week, I think it was Tuesdays and Saturdays, and I ran a short distance, it was like a mile and a half to two miles, maybe a little over two miles. I ran very slow and I wasn't pressured by the pace. There's a sprinkler that's about to spray me, so that's what that noise is. I wasn't worried about the pace, I just ran extremely slow and I was not in a rush to increase the pace or the distance. I just kept doing it over and over and over, week after week, until I felt like it was noticeably just too easy and so I had to add more. So anyways, what I'm going to do is give you six tips or pointers that might help you out, they certainly helped me out. So, tip number one, don't worry about an initial drop in lifting performance. I'm not saying this is going to happen, but it might. Don't freak out if it happens. While some people think that running and lifting weights are different, one is conditioning, one is resistance trening, they are still trening and if you've been doing the same routine for a year or two years, if you're an intermediate and you're accustomed to doing the same lifting routine week in and week out, you've become accustomed to that. So if you add any more trening on top of that, yeah, you might feel its effects. And this doesn't just pertain to running, if you add any sort of strenuous activity into your routine, you might do soccer a couple times a week or basketball a couple times a week, you might feel that in your lifting sessions. It's okay, it's normal, there's nothing wrong, you're not doing anything wrong, it's just a hump that you have to get over. Just stick with it, ride it out, don't be deterred by it. Tip number two, switch up your pace. Running can be monotonous and it can be boring. I don't think so right now, but I certainly did when I first started running again. It's slow, it's steady, it's pretty low effort. Now, you might be used to lifting weights in the gym, giving everything you have for these five reps and then stop, rest, relax, recover and then do it again. While running is just slow, steady, continuous, low effort work. And so at first, if you want to go run 20 minutes, here's a scenario, you go for a jog. You're jogging along and you think, okay, this isn't too bad. Alright, now it's starting to get a little uncomfortable, you know, now I'm starting to get out of breath, now I'm starting to get tired. This is getting kind of hard, I don't know if I can last for 20 minutes. Okay, man, alright, now I just want to stop, I would just like to stop. It had to be about 10 minutes, how much time has passed? And you look down at your watch and you're only one minute in. So if that is you, try breaking your run down into digestible chunks. So this could be with pace or distance. What I would suggest first is, if you were going to run around your neighborhood, map out where you're going to run first. So let's say you're going to run a square down from your house. You go down this way, across, the third leg is down and then the fourth leg is back. You might just say, okay, for the first leg, I'll jog real slow. And then the second leg across, I'll pick up the pace a little bit. Third leg, I'll jog slow. Fourth leg, I'll jog fast. So just by doing that, you kind of break it into these five minute chunks. And so now all you have to do is hit these milestones. So I've just got to do this for five minutes and then do this for another five minutes. Rather than trying to just last for 20 minutes, slow, steady pace, just running out pretty much into the oblivion and running until you're done. So I think breaking that up, you could also do that with time. So you could say, I'm going to jog for two minutes and then walk for 30 seconds. Whatever, make it up. You can make it up on the fly when you're running. You could say, I'm going to jog to this next stop light or this next stop sign. I'm going to jog to this shade and then I'll pick it up from here. Just break up your pace a little bit, mainly to keep your mind engaged. So you're not just mindlessly jogging for 20 minutes. And when I say pick up your pace, just think of it as an easy, medium, hard pace. It does not need to be something that you're timing or tracking. Personally, I don't even do that. The only time I look at my watch when I'm running is if I'm running actual timed intervals. I just kind of know by feel what my pace is. I personally, I have three paces that I pay attention to. The first one is just a shuffle. I can do that for a long time. Next one, if I'm going to try to pick up pace, I'm just going to increase my stride length a little bit. So I'm going to open up my stride length. I'm not even necessarily tryinGHarder. I'm just opening up my stride and I'm trying to keep up with that. And that'll pick up the pace just naturally. And then the third, if I'm really trying to kick it up, I'll try to increase my stride rate. So IMight hit 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I'll pick it up to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I don't actually count. I'm just kind of trying to give you a visual. Point number three, try hill sprints or inclined treadmill running. Now, you don't have to necessarily do hill sprints. You could just do hill running or just running on some sort of grade. I know that this is determined by where you live. You might not have a bunch of hills in your area. And this doesn't have to be a 45 degree hill sprint. It could just, again, be a gradual increase. Running on hills is lower impact than running on flat ground and especially running downhill. So when you're running on flat ground or when you're running downhill, there is some deceleration every time your foot hits. And there's some eccentric loading. You're kind of slowing yourself down as you run. I can just picture a 225 pound power lifter kind of barreling down the street. And there's a lot of impact slowing yourself down. With a hill, there is none of that. You're constantly trying to climb, dig, dig, dig. So you're climbing up this hill. It's just lower impact. Now, when I say these terms, lower impact, it's jarring, it's stressful. A lot of people will criticize running using those words. Oh, running is so stressful and joints. It's just repeated impact. And it's just so strenuous. It's jarring. And then they'll go to the gym and they'll squat 350 pounds, right? It's just a contradiction. And your non-lifting friends probably look at you and say, oh my goodness, I can't believe you put 300 pounds on your back and you squat. That's got to be so stressful in your muscles and tendons and ligaments and joints. And you would look at them and say, I've adapted to that. I've grown accustomed to this. I've worked up to this. And now I'm proud that I'm strong enough to do this, strong enough to handle this. I'm resilient enough to do this. Running is the same way. It is not stressful on the joints and knees and hips and all this stuff. It's something that you just get accustomed to. So don't mind me for using those terms. Another bonus tip is try running if you have access to an Assault Runner or any other brand that's similar. It's like these curved treadmills. It's motorless. And it's a curved treadmill. So when you are landing, it sort of absorbs your impact on this curve. You kind of go around in this curve rather than stomping on a flat treadmill. And it really does feel like a little less impact, especially for a bigger power lifter when they first start running. So if you have access to one, try it out. I like it a lot. Let's see, where was I? I'm kind of going off of my head here. Number four is, oh yes, focus on your technique. So everyone runs differently. Your running technique is going to look different from mine. Just like everyone squats differently. You might look at someone who squats and they're perfectly vertical. It almost looks effortless. It's just down and up. It looks beautiful. It's like a poster image for what a squat should look like. While some people have to bend over a lot, push their knees out a lot. They've got to squat much slower. It doesn't look on paper. I'm about to get wet. It doesn't look on paper as... Who turned up the water pressure? It doesn't look on paper as clen and effortless as someone else's squat. Running is the same. Some people look like just a gazelle kind of gliding across the ground, while some people look like a hippo barreling down the road. So technique is going to look different. That's totally fine. I'm not going to sit here and tell you exactly how you should run or what your technique should look like. A lot of that is determined by your natural posture. Do you normally slouch or are you really awkward? Are you really upright like this? Do you strike your heels when you walk? Do you walk up on your toes? Your running form and technique is probably going to be determined by that, by your natural gait. All of that's totally fine. So now that that's out of the way, there are a few things that I think you could focus on that will improve your technique and it will make your running a little bit easier. These are pretty objective suggestions. None of this is contentious. I think any runner would pretty much agree with me when I say these things. So the things that I like to focus on. Number one, relax your upper body. So relax your face, your jaw, relax your shoulders. Don't try to extend your upper back. Stick your chest out really hard. Put a bunch of tension in your upper back. Relax your arms. Relax your hands. When you're running, I kind of just put my thumbs on my index finger and run like that usually. Don't do this. Flex here. Don't clench your fists. Just relax your face, your shoulders, and your arms as you run. Next would be try to keep everything front to back. So you're pumping your arms pretty much front to back. You're moving your feet front to back. Try not to do too much swinging side to side with your elbows pushed out like this. You're not bouncing, you're striding side to side or galloping kind of in this diagonal motion. And try not to bounce too much. So I like to sort of think about keeping my head on a tightrope and I'm just kind of gliding across. I'm not bouncing way up and down like this. I'm not striding way off the ground like that and bouncing. And then lastly, this is probably the most important and this is something I have to focus on often. Keep your hips underneath you. So you're not leaning your shoulders forward and sticking your butt back. I just think about bringing my hips forward underneath my body. I don't exaggerate it, but I try to stay upright when I'm running. And a lot of lifters, I think, will kind of fall forward and stick their butt back sort of like they're falling forward for a couple of miles. So that's it. Stand up tall, bring your hips underneath you. Now with all this technique, the reason I'm telling you this is the tip is to focus on technique and try to maintain your technique. Even when you're getting really tired or you're running really fast, you should maintain this technique. So what I like to think about when I'm running is maintain your bearing. Keep your bearing. If I'm running really fast or I'm getting really tired, I don't want to start throwing my technique out the window and start running like I'm in a horror movie being chased by someone with a butcher knife. It's the same with lifting technique. You have this repeatable established technique that you deem is good and you should try to maintain that. A little bit of technique slip is fine, but if you're grinding out the ugliest squats you've ever seen, you should probably stop the set, stop the reps, and maybe lighten the weight or make an adjustment. Maybe call it a day. Tip number five would be don't be afraid to push hard. So a lot of the tips you hear around running and lifting are good tips and I would still stand by them. Start slow. Start easy. Don't get too many miles too soon. Don't run too fast too soon. Don't be in a rush to add intensity or volume. Start slow, progress slowly. That's all good info and I agree, but don't be afraid to push it as well. It's just like someone who starts lifting. If they're just always lifting really lightweight all the time, eventually they're going to need to start grinding against some heavy weight. Hey, you got to actually put some weight on the bar and it's the same with running. You can actually push it every once in a while, especially if you're only running, you know, twice a week, a couple miles each session. So if you're running single digit weekly mileage, you can afford to push it. Now, if you were running four or five times a week, you're clocking in 30, 40 miles. Yes, you're going to have to regulate some of that so that not all of it is hard mileage, but if you're not running that much, don't be afraid to push it. What I like to think about is it should kind of go with your lifestyle. So let me give you two scenarios. The first one would be someone who is very sedentary. This could be voluntary or it could just be nature of their job. I know people who take a tren commute to work. It takes an hour and a half or two hours to commute one way, hour and a half, two hours to commute back. They sit at a desk all day. What's up, man? All right, I'll get out of here. Thanks, dude. Yeah, have a good one. Where was I? And so anyways, these sedentary people who sit all day, if you want to run a couple miles on top of that, I think a couple slow miles, that's all good. And that's probably enough. You're one, getting some running in, and you're also getting some cardio in, but you're also increasing your step count for the day. So slow, steady miles would be good for you. Now, if you're someone like myself who's already very active, I'm on my feet all day. I'm working in gym. I'm working with clients. I weight tren. I'm playing with my kids at the park, whatever it is. I'm already active all day, 15,000, 20,000 steps a day. Clocking in a couple of miles at the end of the day really slow doesn't do a whole lot for me. It just adds to my step count, which I don't need. So for me, I find that I do need some higher intensity runs. Doesn't mean I'm killing my legs every time I run, but I like to get my heart rate up pretty damn high, 170, 180 for an extended period of time. So I like that higher intensity stuff because I feel like I need that for my current situation. So again, don't be afraid to jump above 140 beats per minute or jump above zone one, low zone two. If you push it, you're fine. Number six, before I have to get out of here, focus on the purpose and intent of your lifting sessions. So this is definitely anecdotal. This is just kind of what I do in my personal experience. Everyone's a slightly different suggestion here or recommendation because programming is individual. So you might be squatting once a week. You might be squatting three times a week. You might be trening five times a week. You might be trening two times a week. You might be doing five working sets. You might be doing two working sets. So I can't give hard recommendations, but here's what I would suggest. When I go into a trening session, if I have to scale the session at all because I had a long run and I'm tired, whatever it is, if I have to scale the session at all, I'm going to think about what the intent of the session is and just focus on that. So for example, let's say today is a higher intensity day. So I need to lift heavy weight. Maybe I have four or five triples at a heavy weight, high percentage, high RPE. And I just feel a little bit tired and run down. My legs feel tired. Rather than sticking to the program and doing my four sets of three and using a lower weight, I'm just going to do one top set of three. So the goal is maximum muscle recruitment, maximum neurological engagement. I'm trying to grind against heavy weight. I need to lift heavy weight. I need to stren under a barbell. I need to get some psychological height. I need to focus. So if that is the goal, I'm just going to do threes, triples all the way up and do one really heavy, hard top set. Boom, call it a day. Rather than doing all of those triples at a lower weight. Now, if the goal is higher reps, let's say I'm doing eight, 10, 12 reps and the goal is muscular exhaustion or muscular, I'm just trying to get that big pump, that lactic acid threshold. I'm just going to, instead of doing three sets of 10, IMight work up to one set of 10, 12, 15, maybe even 20 reps, call it a day. So just one long, hard set. So that that's the goal for the day. I'm just going to do that, get out of the gym. And I don't do that all the time. This is pretty much for maintenance, but I do that on days when I'm either pressed for time and I need to get my run in or maybe my legs are just tired from a long run that I did earlier in the day or earlier in the week. That's it, guys. Thanks for watching. And always remember... Tread on time!