Hello everyone, I'm Alan Thrall. Today I'm going to be reviewing, I wouldn't say reacting to, but I'm going to review an old video that I posted, my 10,000 calorie per day video, 10,000 calorie per day diet video, that was posted November of 2013. What were you doing in November of 2013? I was two months into opening Untamed Strength. And so I'm going to review it today because my diet looks different, I wouldn't say quite a bit different. But it looks different now, I just eat far less. And my camera is busted. I got a new camera that was actually gifted to me. I'll explain that later in a different video. So I'm on the iPhone. So if it doesn't sound great, sorry, I'm here with Polka. She's takinGHer mid morning nap. All right, so let's get into this. This first clip I want to show you is actually not from my 10,000 calorie per day diet video. This is the 10,000 calorie per day update video that was posted a little bit later. But I thought this was pretty funny. I chuckled when I reviewed this video when I look back on some of these videos. So here it is, action. I start every morning off with a tall glass of water. I just woke up. So I've been sleeping for the past several hours, and I have not had any water, my body is dehydrated. And to that water, I like to add half of a lemon. This is a great way to get some vitamin C in me. Lemon water also does a couple other things like aiding in digestion helps clense the system. And I think it just tastes really good. So, all right, so I'm drinkinGHalf, I'm drinking some water with half a lemon, squeezed juice of half a lemon, because it aids in digestion. And then I proceed to eat 10,000 calories or whatever. I did this for 8000 calories of food. This is the equivalent of going for a walk in the morning to say, I like to just get some fresh air in my lungs. And then afterwards, I smoke a cigarette. So, aids in digestion, maybe not, try not eating 10,000 calories of food per day, that would probably aid in digestion. And it clenses the system. After eating 10,000 calories, a gallon of milk a day, and I'm worried about digestion and clensing the system. Just kind of funny. I still drink lemon water and lime water every day, which is I like it. Even if it did help with digestion, let's just pretend that it, you know, half a lemon squeezed into water really helped the digestion. We got half the like a, like a teaspoon of lemon juice versus 10,000 calories of food, a gallon of milk, I'm gonna say the 10,000 calories, 10,000 calories of food wins this one. Maybe if I was eating a tablespoon of battery acid, that would probably help with digesting 10,000 calories of food. Anyways, I thought that was funny. I chuckled. So let's get back to the 10,000 calorie per day diet, the OG video. Now, I'll stop talkinGHere in a minute, but I'm not going to review this word for word or calorie for calorie meal for meal, that would just take too long. But I'll I have some thoughts about this video. And I'll, I'll explain it as we go. If you want to watch the full video, it's an entirety, just go back 12 years and check it out. Uh, action. Breakfast, I have one cup of oats dry, which comes out to be a couple cups cooked. Here I am just scraping a teflon pan with a metal spoon. Uh, and to that, I have one banana chopped up. So I'm going to need some oatmeal here. I still love eating oatmeal. I got coconut oil, just because I guess I needed more saturated fat in my diet. I don't know. And a banana, et cetera, et cetera. Good for you. And it tastes really good. And a scoop of raw honey. Mix that all up. All right, let's get to the potatoes of this protein. I eat eight eggs every morning. And yes, I eat the whole entire egg of every single egg that I eat. And let me talk about eggs, eggs. There's a lot of back and forth online about eggs. It seems to be a contentious topic. So I want to talk about my opinion on eggs and also my understanding of eating eggs. A lot of people will say that you should not eat eggs. You should not eat a lot of eggs. You should not eat eggs every day because of the high saturated fat content in an egg, in the egg yolk. And there's actually not a lot of saturated fat in one egg. I think it's a gram and a half, depending on the size of the egg. It's a gram and a half of saturated fat per egg. Now, if you're eating eight eggs a day, sure, that's, you know, 12 grams of saturated fat. First thing in the morning is probably a bit much. But if you're having like a normal person eating two or three eggs, I don't think the saturated fat is of much concern. The cholesterol is more concerning. So in one egg, again, depending on size, I'm going off the top of my head here, but I think that it's one egg. The amount of cholesterol in one egg is 60 percent, over 60 percent of your daily value percent of recommended cholesterol intake for the day. So if you eat two eggs, you're already over the recommended amount of cholesterol you should be eating a day. You can eat a day. And if you're eating eight eggs a day, I'm at like almost 500 percent of my recommended daily value percent for cholesterol. And that's not to mention, that's just an egg right off the bat. That's not even to mention the gallon of milk that I'm drinking, whole milk, which probably has a couple hundred percent recommended cholesterol percent daily value of cholesterol. And then all the chicken that I eat with the skin on, all the steak, the steak that I would use to eat like every day, ice cream and a bunch of other animal products. So my daily value percent of cholesterol is like, I'm like 10 times the recommended daily allowance for what you should be eating or can be eating in cholesterol. That is overkill. I do on all these videos, I would write down, I would jot down the calories and I would jot down the protein, the carbs, the fat, but I never listed the saturated fat. I never listed the cholesterol. Important things that I, that I take into consideration now way more than I used to. I used to not even care about it. Now that's one of the biggest concerns. How much saturated fat am I eating? How much cholesterol am I eating? Sodium, things like that. Um, so some people will say, well, those daily percent values aren't that accurate. You shouldn't go, you shouldn't, uh, base your diet off of that. And, uh, you know, cause those are for average people eating average diets and I'm not average. I lift weights. Even if those daily value percentages are a little bit off, I'm still 10 X. I still want 10, 10 times the amount. Um, I just think it's excessive and I don't need to be eating a gram of cholesterol every single day. I should definitely not be eating a gram of cholesterol every single day. My family tree, my dad, my uncles, great uncles, my grandparents who are all four dead now, uh, they died in like their sixties. Uh, they all, they've all had a high cholesterol blockages, heart problems, cardiovascular, this cardiovascular, that some of them might've been lifestyle stuff, but I just think that I'm, it kind of runs in my family tree. So I don't need to exacerbate the situation by eating eight eggs a day. I probably have six to eight eggs a week now because I still eat eggs. I love eggs. I would still eat eight eggs a day if I could, but I don't think it's a great idea. Now people will say, oh man, this whole video is gonna be about cholesterol. I'm already like eight minutes in. People will say, well, cholesterol is good for you. You know, you need, your body needs cholesterol and you're right, it does. You know, it, it, uh, it's good for your brain and your hormones and this and that. And you're right, but your body makes cholesterol on its own. You do not need to consume dietary cholesterol. You can, but you do not need to. If you look at a vegan who's been vegan for 20 years, never ate animal product, if you check their blood levels, they still have cholesterol levels. It doesn't say zero. So your body makes cholesterol. Uh, yeah, it's important, but you don't need to consume eight eggs every single day just to, uh, to get to, you know, some, whatever. I don't know. I don't even know because you think it's good for you. Um, okay. That's all I'm gonna say about, uh, eggs and cholesterol. And that's my opinion. That's my understanding of it. Uh, well, I guess I'm, no, I'm not done. I'll keep talking. So, um, also my understanding is that cholesterol is not a one for one thing. So you eat cholesterol in your diet, your blood cholesterol goes up. Uh, in fact, saturated fat and even, and especially trens fat can have more of a negative impact on your cholesterol, your blood cholesterol than just cholesterol alone. So here's an example. If you were to eat, uh, like a vending machine, cinnamon roll, like a Cinnabon, um, one of those like Texas Cinnabons, those huge cinnamon rolls. If you were to eat one of those that has a lot of saturated fat and a lot of trens fat and maybe low cholesterol, that is probably going to have more of a negative impact on your blood cholesterol than an egg or than shrimp. Shrimp is a low in saturated fat, but it's also high in cholesterol. So it's not just a one for one thing. That's why this whole topic is nuanced. I think that it's just safe for me. My blood, my blood levels now, my cholesterol and triglyceride are perfect in the perfect range. And I have changed how much cholesterol I eat, how much saturated fat I eat. So it's, uh, better to be safe, not over consume my cholesterol and eat eight eggs a day. Yeah, that's meal number two. So this is a post-workout. I just finished, uh, I have 20 ounces of chocolate milk and two scoops of gold standard, uh, whey protein. Um, I use chocolate milk because of the sugars in the milk and I use the milk for more calories and because it tastes much better. Um, I also have some type of dirty little snack afterwards. Today I'm going to have the peanut butter Snickers. So if there is any time to be a dirty girl in the day, it's definitely after you lift. Typical power lifter, justifying candy to really spike up your insulin and drive all those nutrients into those muscles as you just work. Dude, shut up. Just stop. Okay. Just eat your candy. And just say, I like eating candy. I like eating chocolate after my workout. Stop trying to make some sort of fitness correlation here or health advice or diet advice. You want to spike up your insulin. So the protein gets delivered to the muscles. First off, you're drinking chocolate milk. That's plenty of sugar. Second, this is something that I used to really believe. I read this in a muscle, like a men's health or maybe a book, some bodybuilding magazine. When I was in the Marine Corps, it was some bodybuilders said he eats candy, uh, before his workout and after his workout. And that's what he said. Spikes my insulin and, uh, probably use insulin as well. But, uh, so my roommate and I used to do that. We bought a huge, a huge bag of chocolate or, um, peanut M&Ms and I would take a handful of peanut M&Ms with my protein shake. After my workout. Sure. It's good for gaining weight, but it's absolutely not necessary. It's just power lifters eating candy, eating sour patch kids and whatever else candy, uh, because I need my energy to stay up or I need my carbs to stay up. It's like, dude, you just ate a Chipotle burrito like an hour and a half ago. I promise you, you don't need to eat candy right now to replenish your glucose and carbs and yada, yada. Uh, so just eat your candy bar and move on, dude. I like eating candy. It's because I'm trying to gain weight. Cool. Stop trying to give some fitness tip about it or diet tip. Goodness gracious. Eat the bulk of your calories before and after you lift and then cut up, or I'm sorry, the bulk of your carbs before and after you lift and then cut out carbs for pretty much the rest of the day. So if you're going to eat 300 carbs in a day, eat 150 before you lift and 150 after you lift. All right, thanks coach. Moving on. What's up guys, meal number three. Uh, just sittinGHere in my ice bath and a little Bob Marley. Man, I wish I had that kind of time. Now it is. Uh, three cups of brown rice. Uh, three cups of rice, brown rice, five chicken drumsticks with the skin on. I do not like brown rice. I don't eat brown rice nowadays. Um, it's cheaper pretty much when you buy chicken that has skin on and bone in. It's so much cheaper than chicken that's boneless and skinless. I still believe that it's still true. Uh, less processed meat is less expensive. So if you have a bone in skin on whole chicken, it's going to be less than boneless skinless chicken breast. Um, and honestly my diet is not a ton different. It's just way less. I would probably have chicken breast and then maybe white rice and broccoli. Last couple months I've made a couple of adjustments to my diet, mainly the carb intake. I just eat far less rice and bread and much more potatoes, sweet potatoes, lentils and stuff like that. Um, what did I have to say about this, uh, this meal? Not a whole lot. Okay, let's continue. Meal number four is the same thing as meal number three. Three cups of brown rice, five drumsticks and a cup of broccoli. 24 ounces of milk and an apple for something extra. I don't know what the apple is doing for you. It's not a ton of calories, but it is space in my stomach. So if you, if I was trying to eat a bunch of calories, I probably would just ditch the apple. It's just filling up my stomach even more. I, I do eat an apple every day. Uh, but yeah, now I'm like trying to eat lower calorie food, more high volume, lower calorie food so I can feel full. Um, but I didn't need to feel full back then. So the, the apple is probably unnecessary. Same with like the broccoli, I guess maybe it helped with regularity. Um, I want to, uh, address somethinGHere. Um, do I regret eating like this? Would I have done things differently? Um, do I think it had any sort of like lasting impact on my health? I think that, uh, everything I did, I wouldn't have done anything differently. And no, I'm not, uh, I don't regret how I went about this. My goal was to gain as much weight as physically possible, uh, naturally. And so by eating this amount of food, yep, that's a good way to do it. And, um, I think that I did it fairly responsibly. A lot of this food is chicken, rice, steak, potatoes, dairy, ice cream, um, eggs, oatmeal. And so, IMean, there's like somewhat, I'm still somewhat health conscious, uh, while I'm doing this, it would be a different story if I was eating, you know, a couple of McDonald's big breakfast and four quarter pounders of cheese for lunch and a bunch of Taco Bell. My saturated fat intake and my sodium intake would be through the freaking roof more than this here. If I was drinking like a gallon of chocolate milk instead of just whole milk, I could have done things a lot worse back then. And, uh, I don't think that it had much like negative impact on my health then or now. It's, uh, I was in my twenties. You can get a lot of, you can get away with a lot of stuff in your twenties. I would never ever do this for, for like a decade. I would never do it in my thirties or forties or fifties. Um, I just, uh, I don't eat like this anymore for a number of reasons. Health priorities, uh, gym priorities, body composition reasons. I don't have the time to eat like this. I don't have the desire or energy to eat like this. And so, uh, and in a way it's kind of sort of, sort of like an eating disorder, like a mild body dysmorphia. Like I just wanted to gain weight. No, like no matter what, with the exception of like taking steroids, I, I would do anything for the most part to gain weight while still being somewhat health conscious. And I cared about the number on the scale, the number on the scale going up just as much as I cared about the number on the bar. See five more pounds on the scale was, I was so motivated by that. I just wanted more and more and more weight. I wanted to get bigger, bigger, bigger and stronger. And, uh, it did pay off. Like as I put on weight, as my waist got bigger, uh, my lifts went up. And so I just love that cycle that I was going through. Eat, get strong, eat, get strong. Um, but anyways, it was kind of like this, uh, eating disorder. Because I had to eat like this. If I never went a day without eating like this, if I didn't eat like this, I would, uh, feel small and weak and feel like I'm losing weight and losing muscle. And I would be the next day. The gym wouldn't be as good because I didn't eat 10,000 calories that day. And I was just unable to eat like a normal person. If I would go out with my girlfriend at the time, who's my wife now go out with her. Like I wouldn't be able to just go to a function and eat a one normal meal. I'd be like, Oh, I'm still starving. This isn't enough food. I need more food. I need to order a whole bunch of entrees and a bunch of add ons. Uh, and just look like a gluttonous pig. And, uh, if someone was to make me a meal, you know, I'd look at it and be like, okay, what is this? Like 600 calories, you know, um, like you're unable to function. Normally it's the same as someone who was like, I can't eat this. I can't eat that because of these made up dietary restrictions. And, uh, I don't want to overeat a little bit. I can't have a piece of cheese or can't have a cheeseburger because of this and that. It's the same thing, but on the opposite end of that. And, uh, yeah, I don't think that it's, uh, it's not very, um, reasonable or practical if you have somewhat of a busy life. Dinner time. So for dinner on the menu, we got a 16 ounce steak or one pound. That's probably the cheapest steak at the store. Just boot leather potatoes. And, uh, so I do still eat red meat. I probably have it once, maybe twice a week for one meal, one dinner a week. It'll either be a steak or ground beef. Sometimes I do pick up bison or ground venison, but I don't have it often. Maybe once, maybe twice a week. Thank you for joining me for dinner. So I want to talk a little bit. If you notice, on a normal day, I don't eat bread. I don't eat bread. I don't eat pasta. Uh, I guess you could say it's gluten free. Um, and the only reason that I don't eat that stuff is because when I do, it kind of blocks me up. All right. Stop talking. I'm lying through my teeth here. This is a totally made up. So when I downloaded this video recently, I haven't seen it in years. I downloaded the video and watched it and I heard that part. I thought, what? Gluten has never, I've never had a problem with gluten. In fact, this was 2013. The same year I got out of the Marine Corps, I was stationed right by a subway and I would go eat a foot long sandwich bread, like as often as possible. Sometimes like two foot long subs. I would eat that all the time. I never had an issue. I would go to the chow hall and I would get with my breakfast, I would get toast or bagel and, uh, I would eat pasta if the chow hall was serving pasta, like pasta and spaghettIMeatballs is like one of my top three favorite meals. I still eat gluten. I still eat bread and pasta. Uh, lately I've been eating less. So usually I'll have toast in the morning or I'll have a sandwich. I've been on a sandwich kick. I was, but for the past couple of months I've tried to cut out bread. Uh, but it's not because I'm gluten intolerant. Uh, so yeah, I'm like, what are you talking about, dude? This is not true. This is not true. When I think back to why was I saying this? When I think back to this time, 2013, um, I was, I was a big believer in the gluten free Tren that was floating around. I think CrossFit honestly started it because it was paleo and I was reading at the time about paleo and I think, uh, Elliot Holtz, who I watched at this time, all of his videos, I think he was talking about how gluten wrecks your gut. Cause inflammation and all these kinds of problems, digestive health issues. And so, uh, I bought into it. I think I was just a young man. I was just very, um, easily like I was impressionable. I was easily influenced. And I remember during this time that I had a talk with one of my friends, my best friend at the time. Uh, still not best friend, but I was having a talk with him and we were getting something to eat. And I had said like, oh, no bread. I'm not gonna eat the bread. And he was like, well, what's, why are you not eating bread? And I went on to this tangent about why gluten is bad for you. And he was, his response was just, I don't know, dude, we've been eating bread for like past couple thousand years. I don't think you're right. And, uh, I remember that interaction. And another time I had, uh, uh, it was a friend of my girlfriend at the time and, uh, my other roommate, they were talking about some health issues they were having. And I was like, oh dude, you got to cut out gluten. That's it. Like I thought gluten was just the devil and that all health issues can be solved by going gluten free. And so I remember having the conversation with him. You got to eat potatoes, got to cut out the bread, got to cut out the gluten, stop eating gluten. And, uh, so I think that's why I said that. Honestly, uh, I've just like bought into this. I believe it. And now I'm making up symptoms to say I get backed up. I've never been backed up, especially with the amount of food that I freaking eat, taking like four dumps a day. Um, so yeah, sorry, lied to you guys. I think this will make one gallon for the day. Yeah. IMean, if you're wanting to gain weight, lots of liquid calories really, really help milk, chocolate milk, blender stuff, like put ice cream in this banana, peanut butter. That's a, an easy, easy way. Go watch my super squats video and you'll see how easy it is. Watch my super squats video and check out that weight gain shake. It is an easy way to get a lot of calories. Also, if you're trying to lose weight, cutting out liquid calories is also what I would advise. Just drink water. That's it. Don't drink milk. Don't drink juice. Stop drinking alcohol. Stop drinking anything that has calories in it. Stop drinking soda, all that kind of stuff. And, uh, that's a good way to lose some weight. I think that's it. I don't really have much more to say about it. Um, yeah, that's about all I have to say. Um, I don't, uh, if you honestly, this isn't like the, a terrible diet. If you were just to cut this down in half and have 5,000 calories, probably a solid bulking diet. If you were to cut it into a quarter, 2,500 calories, just eat the same thing, but cut it down to a quarter of that. Then yeah, it's a decent maintenance diet. I, uh, maybe my diet does look different nowadays and I have posted some recent videos about my diet or cooking videos, but maybe I'll do another one, kind of a side by side. If you guys are interested in that, I like watching videos about what other people eat. Um, even like what other people eat if they're vegans. Uh, I don't care. I just like getting some new ideas. And so if that's something you guys are interested, I could do that. It's like a side by side meal for meal. What I typically eat now, especially the last couple of months, uh, since I've made a couple of carbohydrate diet changes again, it's just like less rice, more sweet potatoes, more lentils, um, and, um, more vegetables. And, uh, yeah, I can make that side by side video. Uh, if I do get some time, that's it guys. Thanks for watching and always remember. Also, uh, uh, I was a bit nostalgic when I was watching this video. Uh, it was posted 12 years ago and how many calories is it? Or how many calories does it have? How many views does it have? 329,000. Um, oh no, that's the update. What's the OG video. Let me see. 515,000 half a million views. Uh, thank you guys for all the support over the years. I really appreciate it. It means a lot. Yeah. You guys have helped me so much on YouTube. Help me build what untamed strength is today. And I thank you very much for that. All right. See you in the next video. Always remember.