prolive. All right, no turning back now. Hey, everyone, I'm here with Will Rattel, and we're going to talk all things trening today. So strength trening, programming, plyometrics, jumping, sprinting, Olympic weightlifting, probably some sports performance, maybe some coaching stuff. If you guys aren't familiar with Will, he's got an Instagram and a YouTube channel covering all all the stuff I just listed. So I'd like to get into it. I'm not a podcaster, so I don't have a big podcast intro. It should just be an interview. But Will, if you'd introduce yourself and just kind of talk about, for anyone not familiar with you, just talk about your trening background and history when you first started with sports, lifting weights, and sort of a timeline of events up until now, I guess. Yeah, I played pretty much every sport growing up. I started lifting in like seventh grade, maybe, or my parents would send me to like summer strength conditioning camp. It would be like two times a week. Most of it was like machines and like bench, IMean, it wasn't like super demanding or like based on like many principles that we would apply now, because that was back in like 2007 or something. But I kept lifting all the way through high school. I played football, basketball, baseball in high school. And again, the lifting was like not something I would recommend people do now. I would do like sets of 10 for clens. I would squat to half depth, but like all the standard stuff that like high school kids do is what I did. And then I went to University of North Dakota to play football here, which is where I'm currently coaching now. So I'm working on my alma mater, which is pretty cool. So that's when you actually, that's when I actually like got into like a real strength and conditioning program, was at UND here from 2011 to 2015. And that's when I really started to like get interested in like physiology, exercise physiology, human performance, because I went to, I got my degree in kinesiology, which it sounds smarter than what it is. It's just like exercise science, like it's like Phi Ed, which is nothing wrong with that. It's just like kinesiology sounds smarter than what it really is. So I guess I always want to be upfront on what that is. And then I had a really short lived on and off professional football career in and out of the NFL and now in and out of the CFL for a year and a half. And then now I'm at UND because I, my former boss who actually ended up just getting let go about six months ago, he was the head guy, head strength and conditioning coach at UND here. He knew I was trying to get into strength and conditioning. I had a good relationship with him. So when my football career ended, he knew I had my CSCS. So like I was qualified, right? So he basically just let me have the job here when it was, when it was open. So I got really, really lucky. I'm really fortunate. I didn't have to go through all the same kind of like internships and GA kind of stuff and volunteering at different universities that a lot of people who are strength and conditioning coaches have had to go through. I didn't have to go through any of that. So I'm really fortunate with that. So I started coaching at UND in 2018, been here ever since. And I've worked with like every sport on campus, except for track and field at some point during my career coachinGHere. Currently, I work with softball and volleyball, and then I assist with football. So that's, that's kind of where I'm at now. And then like the trening that I do for myself is just a lot of barbell stuff, a lot of Olympic weightlifting, a lot of plyos, a lot of sprinting, just like basic stuff. But I just try to come up with as many creative ways to implement the basic stuff to make it engaging. So I want to talk about that. What is your trening look like nowadays, like a weekly or whatever kind of cycle you would run like 10, if it's like a 10 day or a day, what is your typical trening look like now, mainly to answer thEQuestion of what do you like to prioritize? What do you like to do? What do you spend your time doing with trening pretty much? What's your trening look like now? So currently, the way I split it up is a Monday, Thursday, upper body day, Tuesday, Friday, lower body. So it's an upper lower split. Wednesdays and Saturdays are like my speed and plyo days. And then Sundays, just because it's Sunday, it's like the rest day or whatever. Go to church, spend time with your family. That's just like a steady state aerobic day if you want to do something. I play a lot of basketball. So I play basketball every Wednesday night. And I do Yeah, like I said, I do a lot of Olympic weight lifting. I don't do that every single trening session, I'll probably do some sort of Olympic weightlifting movemenT3 times a week. Yeah, does that answer thEQuestion good enough? So is that pretty much all just IMean, you I know you have some sort of structure and routine. But is that just because you enjoy doing those things? Or what's your do you have any sort of goals right now? Or do you have any sort of purpose besides? I just like doing this stuff. And so that's why I program it. There doesn't have that does you don't have to have like a specific goal. But is there anything behind that? Well, yeah, my goal is to be able to dunk as long as I can. So I'm 31 years old. I'm only five foot 10. So like my window of being able to be as athletic as possible and like dunk of basketball is gonna it's gonna come to an end at some point. So I'm trying to like, extend that as long as possible. So that's like my goal. So that is why I prioritize like maximal strength and explosive strength as much as possible. Um, so yeah, and then I just, I love Olympic lifting, man. It's just there's nothing more fun in the weight room than getting under a heavy snatch or heavy clen, you know. So I do a lot of that. And other than other other than heavy Olympic lifting, I don't think there's anything more fun than getting under a bar and squattinGHeavy or pulling pulling a heavy bar too. So but like from a principle standpoint, I like the Mark Rippetoe starting strength principles of like, exercise selection, we're going to use exercises to tren a large amount of muscle mass are conducive to heavy loading and tren through effective range of motion. So like, if you follow those principles, you're going to end up doing just a lot of basic barbell exercises anyways. And it's really efficient, really effective, and it works really well. Yeah, that is pretty a good way to dummy proof your program if you just follow those principles. Yeah. That's a pretty good optimistic way of looking at trening to say, I want to do something by that, you know, you know, the next 20 years, I want to be able to dunk for the next 20 years. Rather than putting a hard landmark of like, I want to squat 600, you know, next year on this date, which I think a lot of people fall into trap too. We'll, we'll talk a little bit about that. But so if I look, I follow your Instagram, and I've watched a lot of your YouTube videos. So I know the answer to this question. But I know that if you're liftinGHeavy, and if you're jumping, and you're sprinting, and you're doing conditioning, and you're playing sports on the side. And it sounds like from the split, you just said you're trening like six, seven days a week. Yeah, I do something I do some sort of activity every day. But like trening wise, I'm trening five to six days a week. Yeah. And that that, at least from the people who follow me on Instagram, because I got somEQuestions from people following me on Instagram, a lot of people want to know, how do you do that? How do you tren six, seven days a week? How do you recover from that? It's crazy. I can't buy would never I do three days a week, and I'm just fried. What do you you have any, any method to your madness or? Yeah, it's like, don't care about it. Like, yeah, I enjoy trening, I'm gonna do it regardless. Like if my baby wakes up three times in the middle of the night, and I only geT4 hours of sleep, I'm still going to tren just because I enjoy it. It's an outlet for me. And if I need to scale back some of the intensity and volume due to fatigue levels, or whatever it is, I'll, I'll scale back, but I don't really care about it. No, probably. IMean, I've heard you say the same thing before, too. I've heard Austin Brockley say the same thing. Like, have you ever just tried caring less? It's like a good, it's just a good mindset to have. Like you said, there's no there's not a number on the bar that I care about. I just care about like getting thEQuality trening in because it's good for you. It's healthy to do. It's good for your mind. It's good for your soul. It's good for your body. So yeah. So are you trying to? Are you trying to like lift maximum weight every single session? Or what's your what's your kind of approach to that? If any? Yes, no. IMean, I, I do like programming like a top set of five or top single or top, whatever, a top set with some back offsets. So that top set, yeah, I'm trying to like really push it. But like I said, there's not a number that I care about. So if my top set of five for the day on squad is a 405 when other days it's 465, so be it, you know? Yeah. So a very popular question. People always like to know minimal answers like, you know, what are your top five squat squat exercises or what are your top three lifts if you could only do three lifts? So I'm going to ask if you only had three hours a week to tren, what would that look like just off the top of your head? And I don't care how you split those three hours up three days, one hour each, one three hour session, whatever. But if you had three hours to tren and that's it, I don't think that would ever happen. But if in some some other other world, what would you do in those three hours? I would definitely dedicate a 30 minute session to sprints and plyos, a 30 minute session to like aerobic fitness. And then I would probably do a couple of 45 minute full body strength trening. And then how much time do I have left? 30 minutes. Then another 30 minutes to yeah, probably three full body strength trening sessions, 45, 45, 30, 30 minutes dedicated to aerobic fitness and 30 minutes dedicated to true max effort sprinting and plyos. I'd have to think about it more, though, to give you like. deca dick tested by�ped, pneumatic test organs, pneumatic chart for bladder and cure. I'm going to copy and paste that in and sell my three-hour week program that, but I think that just the way you frame that, I think works really well. And we'll talk a little bit about that when we talk about your programs. So take care of both, work on your protein. But I think just putting a time cap on something works really, really well. nd again, we'll talk about that you might get where I'm where I'm coming from Rather than saying, I'm going to do five sets of squats on this day and then 10 so like how many weekly sets should it be and how many weekly reps should I do? But if you just put a cap on, I'm going to, I'm going to do plios for 30 minutes. I'm going to do heavyweight trening for 30 minutes. It's sort of, uh, uh, kind of puts you in charge of programming. And again, we'll talk about that, uh, in a bit, but this question is for my entertainment. Let's say your wife was like, Hey, well, we need a million dollars by next year. I need you to get drafted to the NFL again. Find some million dollar contract and you have until next year. What would you add to your trening or subtract for your trening? If you were trying to get drafted again, what would you do less of? I would do more sprints and plios type stuff. I would probably do less. I would, the frequency of the lifting would stay the same, but the total workload would drop. That makes sense. So instead of like, Oh, I'm going to do 30 minutes. So instead of like a top set of five followed by three back offsets of eight or whatever, I'd probably just do a top set of five and call it on something. Um, that would be the main thing. And then I would add in more, I would add in more like steady state aerobic stuff, just so I have a better base of conditioning. Um, yeah, that would be, that'd be my answer. Nice. All right, that works. Um, so let me see here. I got somEQuestions. Uh, so one more thing about, uh, about your trening, and then we'll talk a little bit more about trening athletes and programming recommendations and things like that. Um, well, I guess you already touched on it. You already kind of said, uh, have you tried carrying less? Um, but yeah, I was going to ask, and some of thesEQuestions were kind of formed based off of what other people asked on the Instagram Q and A. But as someone who wants to perform so many things, you, uh, or get better at so many things, or at least maintain so many things, you want to jump high, you want to run fast, you want to be able to sprint, you want to have some conditioning, you want to be strong in various lifts. Um, like how do you deal with sort of this, uh, performance expectations and rate of progression? And because I know a lot of people get like performance anxiety, uh, uh, gym anxiety of like, I got to be increasing this, or I should be here in six months, but you kind of touched on it. You just don't care a whole lot. You just know that if the effort's there, everything will kind of take care of itself. Um, that was just a popular question. So I kind of, uh, come back to it. If you have any more thoughts about that. No, IMean, I just know I want to be as healthy and as athletic as possible for as long as possible. And like, I've talked about like the minimums before. I want to just give myself like the minimum exposures needed in order to maintain all of thesEQualities. Um, knowing that like when I'm 55, I'm not going to be as athletic as I am now, but like, you're just trying to maintain thesEQualities as much as possible. Yeah. Like without any expectations, like the only, it's not a number, but the only thing I care about performance wise is being able to dunk a basketball. So like there's times where I go play basketball on Wednesday night, and I just do dunks in between pickup games, right? You'll do like three or four dunks when everyone's getting water between games. And there's times where like now at 31, I'm missing three out of five. And like, if I leave the gym and I went up for 20 dunks and I only made four out of 20, I'm pissed. Uh, but if I have a good night where I'm 20 for 20 or even like 15 for 20, I'm pretty happy. So like that's the only like performance thing that I actually care about and yeah, it's going to be a sad day when I like leave the gym, don't know how old I'm going to be where I, I don't put one dunk down. So that's, that's really the only performance I care about. Yeah. I think that just like genuinely loving trening. Uh, unfortunately the hard truth is I think for most people you either have it or you don't, it's not really something you can agree with that. And I think that a lot of people who do tren and they get so wrapped up in numbers or I got to hit this number, that's fine to have those performance metrics. But,  like,  when it comes down to it, if you don't love doing it, it is going to be hard if you're, if you're trying to spend so much time getting better, better,  and you're not seeing that as often as you'd like. Uh, but when it comes down to it, yeah, people that are just in the gym for decades genuinely just love it. So Alan, how old are you? 35. What, what point did you kind of stop caring at what age? Um, uh, I would, I don't know, probably, probably around 30. Um, when I stopped, uh, when I stopped doing really strict, uh, powerlifting, um, it's hard not to be sucked into numbers when you are powerlifting. Um, but that's why I went, I started doing more strong man. And at that point, all I, I can just focus on an upcoming competition. And so I, I don't really care about numbers that I do. I just want to beat other people. I want to win. Um, and so it's nice to do that, to have that, but, uh, but yeah, honestly I would, I would say, and, and I think once I started to expand, uh, what I was doing in the gym, I wasn't just squat bench deadlift all the time. Um, I would just do other things. Uh, so anyways, probably, yeah, probably like 30. I would say, and my son's five years old. So probably when he was born, uh, I just stopped worrying about like things like that. Um, cause yeah, it's, it's driving yourself crazy. Like getting so frustrated and you just get like anxious about the gym. If you're like, Oh God, I gotta hit, I gotta squat 500 for five today. What if I don't? It's like, it's so freeing. Once you reach that point where you don't care, it's so freeing. Yeah. And people think of that as kind of like, you're like nihilistic or something and like, Oh, nothing matters. And it's like, it's not exactly what I'm trying to say. Um, but yeah, the, what matters is you stay consistent, you give your best effort and everything else to kind of take care of itself. Um, so yeah. Uh, all right. So if we move into talking a little bit more about strength and conditioning, because you're a strength and conditioning coach. So I want to paint a picture or give this scenario of a, a person. It's, I'm not totally making this up. This is like, this is a, a person that IMeet regularly. And I hear this story just being a gym owner and a personal trener. So it's this, this guy who wants to get stronger and he, uh, also wants to improve his body composition and wants to get a little more muscle, lose some body fat. He wants to be athletic, whatever that entails. Uh, he wants to have some, he cares about performance. So he wants to have something to show for all the work that he puts in all the time he puts in the gym. Probably wants to have a little bit of conditioning in his back pocket because he likes doing things outside of the gym. So popular things are, I like to go to jujitsu class a couple of times a week. Um, I like to join like team competitions for strongman or CrossFit, like a local comp. IMight do a tough motor every once in a while. I play big pickup basketball or my work does a softball league. So they do something outside of the gym. And what happens is he goes onto YouTube or online for strength information. And more often than not, he comes across powerlifting information. And, uh, before you know it, he's doing a powerlifting program and he just gets sucked into this very specialized squat bench, deadlift powerlifting wonder at max. That's not entirely bad, but I think that in an ideal situation, he would come across some strength and conditioning content or strength and conditioning programs, because that would suit his needs much better. Um, but I think a lot of times strength and conditioning coaches are very specialized. They like cater to certain athletes and when they see like,  I'm not a baseball player, I'm not going to follow this program for wrestlers. They kind of just check out. Um, so anyways, my question for you is, would you, do you think that strength and conditioning programming should be different for the guy? I just described some average Joe versus strength and conditioning programming for an actual athlete who plays a sport for the most part? Not really. Um, yeah, no, not really. I guess like depending, depending on the sport that the athlete plays, you're going to emphasize different qualities a little bit more than others. Um, but for the most part, like exercise selection would all be the same as far as like the, the frequency of, of, uh, getting lower body strength trening in per week, upper body, some conditioning, some speed and piles work. It's all going to be pretty much the same. It's going to be a little bit different depending on the sport that they play. But like, yeah, if you want to, if you're like an average Joe, but you want to have some sort of athletic ability so that you can express your, your qualities outside of the gym, uh, you should probably implement all of these different trening modalities to make sure you're well-rounded. So why do you think that is that like content online, any strength and conditioning content online seems to be either specifically for athletes that arecompetitive or it's specifically for certain types of athletes, like strength and conditioning. I'm the strength and conditioning guy for baseball players. I'm the strength and conditioning guy for wrestlers. Uh, why do you, why do you, why do you think something like powerlifting dominates content online? And it's not even power lifters doing powerlifting programs. like powerlifting content, I feel like bleeds into fitness, like people just looking for general fitness advice, kind of follow these powerlifting programs more than a strength and conditioning program. Do you any reason why you think that is? I think if you could guess, my guess might be wrong. But I feel like the more niche niche niche, your content can be. It sounds kind of kind of counter counter intuitive, but the bigger your audience can be, where like, if your niche is very, if you don't have a niche, if you're very general, you have a very general approach. I feel like you reach less people. It's kind of like a paradox in that kind of way. I could be wrong, but that's kind of my take on it. Do you know what IMean? Yep. Yeah. You definitely have to like cater to someone, you know, like volleyball players are my thing. You're going to get all volleyball players automatically by default to buy into whatever you're trying to sell or your service or your ideas. So yeah, I guess it's more of a, like a marketing strategy online than anything. I think some of it could be as I'm thinking about this, you know, cause once I had that question for you, I'm thinking about it myself, but I think a lot of it is most strength and conditioning coaches are actual certified coaches with jobs. And so whereas power lifters might be, it might just like make money selling programs online. They don't have an actual job. So maybe that's why power lifting content just dominates YouTube and Instagram over strength conditioning. But that could also be just my bubble. I don't know. So that could be fair. Here's kind of like an anecdote for you. So like the guys I play basketball with ranges from 22 year olds to like early thirties. And so like I'm on the older end of like the age range of the group I play with. And it's really interesting. So like the older guys, they start to kind of fade away and stop and they show up less and less and less, right? As time goes on. And likEQuestions that they'll ask me, cause they know like what my job is. They know I put content out online. They'll like ask me, like, how do you stay athletic? Like, I feel like I'm losing a step. I feel like I'm getting slower. And these are people that they work out, like they exercise. They don't just play basketball once a week. They go to the gym and they work out. And my answer to them is always like, we'll just add like one day of sprinting a week. Like go to a local football field one day a week, do some sprinting and plyos. Like that's gonna set a base for you. That's gonna like last for a while. But they like, don't like that answer. And so for some reason, like the general pop, the general, how do I put this? General population people, I think they're looking for a specific answer that, I don't know. Cause I just gave them a specific answer to sprinting. Can you hear my dog? Yeah, no worries. I feel like watching a powerlifting content is like easier to consume and then try to apply. Cause you're going to a weight room. You're going to a lifetime fitness. You're going to an anytime fitness. Like that stuff is easier to apply than a lot of other stuff. So I don't know, maybe that doesn't make sense. It made sense in my head, but. Nope, that does. Yeah, people want something specific and just giving them more general advice doesn't always work. If you were like, just go sprint, just go spend time sprinting. But they want like how many sets and reps, what day, going to the gym. And it is a little more general. It's unfortunate. Cause I think that strength and conditioning content, little more, like catered a little more towards general population could be really useful. Of whereas, you know, more useful than just strictly powerlifting stuff. And I don't really know of many people online, at least on YouTube, who teach strength and conditioning other than maybe you and like Alec on Curie. I know it does a lot of that kind of stuff. But do you think, this is just a sidEQuestion. We'll move on. Do you think that people who have like strength and conditioning programs for baseball players, strength and conditioning programs for lacrosse players, do you think that they really think they have programs that are like going to make those specific athletes better? Or is that just marketing or what? I have no idea. Cause I'm not like, I'm not like friends or close with any of the people that we could identify as like those kinds of people. Like I'm friends with like Austin Neocum, Jake Tura, Tim Riley. I like, when you, when you provide your example of like catering to baseball players, I'm thinking of someone like the guy from Virginia. What's his name? Drew McDuffie or like Eric Cressy or somebody like that. I don't personally know those people. So I can't, I can't say. But yeah, if you don't, if you don't know, yeah. Yeah, I don't know, but I think it'd be, if they truly did believe in it, I think they'd have a very hard time kind of defending their position, why they believe that it is specific for those sports and it couldn't be applied to other people, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I agree. It's easy to just put out all of your thoughts and ideas and stances online and then not defend any of it. So yeah, that, that makes sense. It's probably very true. So I have a couple of questions about trening, trening athletes. So do you find, the first one I'll ask is, do you find that when you tren the, any athletes you're trening, college athletes, is there, because of the presence of social media and how popular social media is, do you ever get any pushback because they're so influenced by seeing other trening methods and maybe the, hey, hey coach, I just saw this video, 10 minute long video about why Olympic lifting's not good for athletes, you know, what do you think? Whereas when you were in high school and college, you didn't have all that. You didn't have that like influence. Do they ever give you a pushback or like, why are we doing this? Why can't we do this? I saw, I saw some people doing, you know, just some trap bar jumps and saying that it was better than this, these clens. Can we start doing that? Do you ever get any of that? And if you do, how do you handle that? Or no, do they just shut up and tren? I personally don't, but I think it's because of my online presence. So I'm sure there probably are people that do, cause like I am putting content out. I am trying to like, I'd be lying if I said I didn't have an agenda when I'm putting content out. Like I'm trying to get ideas out. So like I do put my ideas out. I try to defend them the best I can. So like the athletes that I work with, they all follow me on Instagram. So like they know what my true opinion of things are. So I don't really get a ton of that. I actually did in the past, not anymore, but I would get asked about Ben Patrick a lot. I would get asked about like the knees over toes, split squat, the tip raises. Like, why don't we do any of that stuff? And I don't know, I just had like my generic principled answer that I would give them without like insulting anybody. But probably since like, yeah. When did Ben Patrick get popular? Probably like 2019, 2020, he started to like get popular. So that's, I would get questions during that time, but I haven't got a lot, no. That's good. I think that if you do, if people do just follow you on Instagram, I think that that can get people or athletes to buy in if they're like, all right, this dude's strong. He's good at these lifts. He's proficient with these lifts. He's fast, he's explosive. You have a good athletic sports history. So that automatically kind of gets them to buy in. Whereas if you were, I don't know, some dweeb who's, you know, didn't tren, they can probably question it a lot more. So I think there's a huge bond to that. You know what's crazy? There's actually quite a bit of that in American strength, like college strength and conditioning. What's that, the dweeb? Yeah, like dweeb, 30 guys who don't really tren. Yeah, there's more of that than there probably should be. Yeah, that's wild, man. I don't know. I feel like you are like the first form of marketing. And I know that maybe if you're not, and you are, I guess if you are a coach and you do have a secure job, you don't really have to look the part. And it's just like, I'm just here, I'm getting paid. I'm gonna tell them what to do. But definitely if you're trying to market yourself or if you're trying to sell your own personal programs, I feel like there should be some sort of like, some sort of marketing. You are your own billboard in a sense. And whether it's your lifts or how you look or whatever it is. I know if I was an 18 to 22 year old kid and I looked at my strength conditioning coach and he was like either obese or like really skinny, regardless of if they could like defend, like make a physiological argument for why he's programming certain things. I would still just be like, why am I listening to you? You know, like if I was 18 to 22 year old kid, like I would think that. Yeah, a hundred percent. We had, I had the most, just playinGHigh school football. My high school football coach was a lineman at K State, at Kansas State. And so just automatically knowing that, I just knew he knew how to play ball. And so we had a lot of trust in him. But every time we had an assistant coach who was like, he'd never even played the sport. He's just a dad who volunteered. We just would like roll our eyes whenever he said anything. So yeah, there's definitely something to that. So for, about athlete buy-in, since we're talking about that. Do you ever, how much of when you program, specifically for athletes, when you program for them, how much of it is, I'm going to have them do what they need to do versus I'm going to have them do what they want to do. So do you ever think, and there's no right or wrong answer here. I'm not trying to like lead you onto any answer, but do you ever think, I'm making the comparison of trap bar jumps and Olympic lifts, because I know you talk about that a lot on your channel, but let's say they were like, oh, I just hate clens. I hate them. I want to do some trap bar jumps. Do you ever flirt with that? Like, okay, I'll let them have. cerecal, the red blood motion,one basic thought. I think it's crazy. So like with division one athletes, they are required, they're obligated to do so many things, go to practice, go to film, go to academic meetings, go to class, community service, they're, they're obligated to do all these things. And strength and conditioning is another obligation that they have. And like, the amount of kind of like, the amount of strength and conditioning coaches that will compromise their principles, because they need to like, feel like they're liked by their coaches, like by the athletic treners, like by the athletes, where like, the athletes aren't going to complain that they have to, well, they're going to complain to each other, but they're not going to complain to their head coach that they have to go to a community service event. You know what IMean? Where it's like, I can't believe in strength and conditioning, there's so much catering to that. And there should be. Does that make sense? Yeah. It's insane. It's insane to me. But it happens. And it happens a lot. And I used to be a part of it. Like I was part of the problem with that. But like now, yeah, now I'm, I'm in charge. We're gonna, we're gonna do what I say. And like I said, I don't get a ton of pushback, pushback as it is. But like, if there is, it's just like, no, put the Barney back into your set of five. I'm not, I'm not going to negotiate. Yeah, that's a, I think that. Yeah, some of it might be like entertainment. Like, are you an entertainer? Or are you a coach? And then also, IMean, it's no different than social media content. Like, I could make up more obscure things to say just so people are more engaged. And I'm sure programming is the same way, like, I'll have them do this, because they're gonna think it's fun. They're gonna, it's gonna, we're gonna switch things up every single workout or something like that. So a little more entertainment, some of it might be like a flex on yourself, you know, like, I'm gonna show them how much I know with like, all these intricate drills and stuff. So that's probably hard. So you, I remember you saying that you work with the football team, but you you're in no, you don't control any of it. Like, I'm an assistant. So I just show up to their trening sessions. And I kind of just get told what station to go to which group of guys I'm working with what their program is. And I just, I just go kind of execute my, my role there. Okay. Do you ever have to like, I don't want I don't want to get you in trouble or anything. But do you ever have to like, bite your tongue? As you're watching? Like what? No. So, so, like, so I said, my previous boss, he got let go after Christmas, like the end of semester. So we got a new boss. When Derek, his name is Derek Stein. He's awesome. He's my current boss. So when he got hired, he asked me if I want to be involved in any like programming decisions, or he just asked if I wanted to be involved with like any of the planning for football. So I just told him no right away, because then it kind of then it just dismisses me from having to bite my tongue. But like most of the stuff he programs anyways, it's the same stuff I would program too. So like, yeah, it's all good. Like, I show up and hit the structure of his trening sessions are great. It's typically some sort of Olympic lifting variation, then some sort of like, squat or pull off the ground, and then a couple of accessory stuff. If it's a lower body day, I guess, and then upper body day would be some sort of Olympic variation followed by like, some sort of press, upper body press, and then some accessory stuff. So like, it's all the same kind of stuff that I would program anyways, but like, yeah, I enjoy I really like the position I'm in, because I can just show up with football and just kind of do what I'm told. Because I am I'm, I can be an employee. But honestly, I'm not a very good like teammate, that makes sense. Like if I had to collaborate with somebody on a project, because like I said, like I do have my own agenda, I am going to want to do things my way. And I don't want to like, have one foot in one foot out of the door by like, they bring an idea. And I'm like, I don't really like it. But I'm gonna say yes, because I want to be polite. I don't want to be rude. But then I actually in my back of my head, I'd really don't like the idea. So I'm not going to execute it the way they want. You know what IMean? So yeah, I like the position I'm in right now. That's good. Yeah, it's more of an all or nothing take rather than if you were like, Yeah, you know, this is kind of my style. And then he tries to implement that style. And you're like, that's not what IMeant. And you kind of get frustrated with it. But yeah, just to be hands off is, is good. So we can, we'll come back to strength conditioning and being a coach and content in a minute. But if let's trensition a little more to towards programming, because we're kind of on the topic, just to general general public. If you I guess we can start to talk first about like intermediate programming, just because that seems to be the most popular form of programming content. And I just define intermediate as someone who's passed the very beginner stage. So people usually hop on starting strength or strong lifts five by five or something like that. So beginners practice, they've, they're at the point where they've, they're proficient with the lifts. They've just kind of added five pounds every session. Now they're stuck, they're failing lifts. And they don't really know where to go from here. Should I do? I've been doing three sets of five, should I do five sets of five? Should I lighten the weight and do five sets of 10? Should I do more exercise variation? Should I do less? Should I get more specific? I know that's a huge loaded question. But I know just to kind of bring you back in, I know you've talked about, you've answered very complex questions with pretty simple answers. Like, how many reps should I be doing? How much volume should I be doing? And you've talked about just the concept of stress, or like effective work. Can you talk a little bit about that? Like when someone asks you, hey, just finished with starting strength or whatever program? Should I do more volume with less weight? Should I do 10 sets of 10 next? Should I do five sets of 10? I don't really know. And before you answer, I know that you've spent time creating programs, like to answer thesEQuestions. But if you could just talk on that, that would probably be clarify a lot of things, like just the concept of just the general question of how many reps should I be doing? You know, for this exercise, or volume and things like that. Yeah, I am a huge proponent of the effective reps model, not necessarily because the argument of why it it physiologically why it's effective, like, I do think it is effective. But that's not really the main reason why I'm a proponent of it. But because it just simplifies this question so much, like, if you can get, I'm just going to arbitrarily say, like 10 effective reps. And if you use the effective reps model, the definition of like slow concentric contraction speed, and high motor unit recruitment, if you get like 10 reps that fit into that category, you're probably going to feel pretty stimulated. And you're going to feel like you did something effective. Whether it's 10 1250, whatever the the exact number is, the 10 was arbitrary. But that's why I'm a proponent of the effective reps model, because it simplifies that kind of stuff so much. And then you don't have to worry about like, alright, I did three sets of five last week at 225. Well, what if I did three sets of three at 240? Is that really an improvement? Is it not? I don't really know. It kind of just simplifies decision making in that regard. And then as far as like exercise selection, I guess it would depend on the person. But I'm a huge proponent of, yes, making very subtle changes in the exercise selection. So like, if you've been back squatting and front squatting for six months, and you really haven't done any other variation, go ahead and try a searcher, go ahead and try box squat, try squatting off the pins, just make really subtle changes in the, in the application of the load, I think is a really effective way for people. Just like minor changes like that, I think are really effective for most people keeps it simple, allows them to tren hard without putting a ton of thought into it. So that brings up something that I don't have written down here. When I look at your trening, people might call it bare bones trening, because it's always barbell trening. You're doing a squat, a deadlift, a press, and some pulling. And so, but with that said, it looks very basic and very standard elemental. But if you go through your Instagram, you're doing so many different variations. Can you talk a little bit about variations? And I think people want to know, like, what variations should I be doing? Do you have any opinion on that? Or is it more like, I'll let you I'll let you talk about it. But yeah, not really. It's mostly a personal preference. Like I said with the Riffitoe principle of exercise selection, as long as it like fits into those three principles, you're probably going to be okay. I have personal favorites for sure. Like I love Zurcher squatting. I love squatting off pins. I love snatch grip deadlifting. I love deficit deadlifting. But yeah, it's mostly just like exercise selection is a personal preference. Yeah, yeah. Most of the stuff I do is to humor myself. Yeah. Yeah, like, I've seen I've seen your submissions to Snap City and the what was it, Alex Blenis did like the knee crusher and you did like A-500 pound split squat or something like that? Yeah, that's insane. Yeah, so I think that there is, there is a lot of variety, which you're a testament to, in someone who's kind of limited. Someone who's like, oh, all I got is a bar and a rack in my garage. I think that one, you've shown and I think you've talked about on your channel, just the amount of stuff you can do with a barbell. Not only exercise variation, but just changing up sets, reps, or the way you approach that. So instead of three sets of five, just 15 hard reps with a certain weight and as few sets as possible, things like that. So how often do you, now that IMentioned that, how often do you program that kind of stuff? Like time sets, AMRAPs, or density sets, all this kind of stuff of rather than a traditional three sets of five with this weight. You would do, like I said, 15 hard reps. Is that just kind of, you just wing that whenever you feel like doing it or what? Yeah, so for myself, I'm sure at least once a week I'm doing something that would be like outside of the set and rep scheme type of programming. Whether it's a giant set, density set, an AMRAP or something like that, or an EMOM even. But like for the athletes I work with on campus, not as often, just because it's a much more controlled environment. We only have, I got like for volleyball, I got like 17 girls I'm working with all sharing five racks, five barbells. You got to get in, get out. So there's not a ton of that. So like for something like a giant set where it's like, hey, you need to get 20 quality reps in as few sets as possible. Something like a pull-up would be like a good exercise to put that in for like a structured team. At the end of the session, like, hey, we got eight minutes left. Try to get 20 pull-ups in as fast as you can. Density sets, you can't really do with a group setting like that. It just doesn't work. The rest of you are too long. Yeah. People are changing weights on the bar and AMRAPs work well. If you just do like one, you just say, hey, build up to a heavy AMRAP set. I programmed 80% on the bar for you. So that's the weight. That's easy to do within a team setting. But yeah, in a team setting, like on campus, you do way less of that kind of stuff because you have to, you got to keep them moving. You got to have their rest periods somewhat organized. And then with my clients, like one-on-one clients, I do a lot of it because it's a lot easier to implement with one-on-one clients. Yeah, I've started doing it. I don't know where exactly I saw it. It was in one of your programs, but it was like jumps. Maybe you just put an Instagram post about it, but it was like jumps. Do this kind of jump, like a vertical jump, 15 minutes. And it is, it is really nice when I saw it, I was like, damn, I'm looking forward to this. You know, like it's just rather than do five sets of five jumps, because I would run into, you know, I'm warming up and I'm like, I don't know, should I, should I increase this box height and start my first set? I just did that and it was kind of easy. Like, should that be my first set? Maybe the first couple of sets, but just to get away from all of that and just say, I'm going to do whatever. Sets of three to five for 15 minutes and just ramp up as I feel, uh, is really, really nice. And it is, uh, you just feel like you're in charge. And I think that there is, there should be some form of like, uh, navigation that the lifter has to figure out themselves, uh, which is nice. Um, uh, so I really enjoy that. And I've done it a couple of times with other stuff, like, uh, uh, the, the density density set type stuff, where you just do three to five reps, as many sets as you can within 15 minutes with a productive weight. And, uh, it is nice to just focus on those 15 minutes because, uh, rather than having, uh, it's not for everything I do, but rather than having the traditional four sets, I'm going to have to like get ready psychologically to focus for this set and then rest and then get ready again to focus for this set and then rest. And especially if I'm, uh, at untamed strength and it's like busier hours, there's so much stuff to distract me in between sets. So if I don't have to rest like that and I can just stay focused for 10 minutes, I like it a lot. Um, it's great. It's nice. And, uh, I think that pulling variables like that, especially when you're intermediate can be really helpful, um, rather than like, okay, I'm an intermediate. Should I be adding two and a half pounds per session now? Or five, like just one variable you're pulling on just so many other things you can do. So I, yeah, I appreciate it. And even the Instagram posts you put up where you just list your workout, I'm like, oh, I'm going to try this. So it's nice to see that. So, yeah. Um, so I want to talk a little bit about, uh, sprinting and more just sprinting and then Olympic lifts. Um, I know you're a proponent of sprinting. You do it often yourself. You have your, uh, clients do it and you have your athletes do it if, if possible. Um, aside from just getting faster, what are some benefits of sprinting that might be that, uh, that might be more useful for someone who doesn't play an actual sport, but why, like, why should I do some sprints? Yeah, like, I like framing this as if, uh, I'm speaking to someone who, who their primary, uh, means of exercise is lifting weights and like, they care about getting stronger. I think sprinting is like one of the best things that you can do just to like supplement increasing strength. Just like, uh, the level of motor unit recruitment, you get sprinting is unmatched doing anything else. Um, certain outputs that you're going to achieve certain impulses that you're going to experience, um, not just like on your legs, but as an entire body, um, it's all going to be unmatched, uh, doing anything else compared to sprinting. So, um, from that perspective, it's probably really underrated. And like, if you do play sports, it's probably really underrated for someone, um, in terms of like providing a stimulus that could potentially reduce the risk of a hamstring stren. It's like, if someone plays recreational soccer once a week, um, they just add sprinting and they add sprinting in to their trening on top of strength trening once a week. I think their, um, their likelihood of having a hamstring stren is probably going to go down. Um, there's a lot of things I can't even think of. There's a ton of things, but I can't really think of other examples right now. It's funny that the, the one thing that, and maybe even in sports too, but just the average Joe, the one thing that people avoid doing, they avoid sprinting for fear of hamstring stren. Yeah, but that's actually the one thing that they should be doing to avoid that. Uh, it's kind of, uh, it's very ironic, uh, that people avoid that, but it's probably something they should be doing. Um, and, uh, so you, you touched on it very briefly. You said that if I'm a dude who's been lifting for the past couple of years and that's all I've done, uh, I should start sprinting once a week. You think, how would you go about, Hey, I've never, I haven't done sprints since high school. What should I, what should I do to start out? I probably just have, um, I'd suggest picking a day in the week, just dedicated to sprinting. So like if you, if you typically tren four days a week and all four days lifting, maybe do some cardio, um, here and there, but like, I would just have a dedicated day to sprinting. It doesn't even have to be long. It doesn't have to be like long distances. Like if you're just starting out, if you just did like six to eight, 10 to 15, maybe 10 to 20 yard sprints once a week for five to six weeks. I think you would, you really would notice a different feeling in the way you feel approaching working sets in the weight room. Um, that's how I would recommend people starting out. Yeah, that's perfect. Um, I've, I've recently, so what I'm doing, uh, I'm doing the, what's called the Haas Frankenstein. So I, I'm doing the Haas project. I was bouncing around for a couple of weeks of like, which one I was going to do. I'm doing the Haas project. Uh, but I'm doing some of the, the plyometric and sprinting from launch. I'm doing like, I'm just doing like the phase one through four right now, the first block. Uh, and then I add some clen workouts from the Olympic Haas Olympic into the Haas project. But I've even found, um, that I am not doing true sprints yet. Um, I've been doing it two to three times a week for the past few weeks. I'm calling them strides. Uh, just because I'm trying to like, uh, trying to increase my pace as I go. And especially if I'm doing 20 minutes of the sprints and the jumps and all that. Um, the first one will be a stride at like 70% and then maybe I'll go 75 and 80%. And then towards the end, when I'm feeling good and confident, I'll ramp it up. Um, but I've found that the, I have more confidence sprinting the 10 to 15 yards than like the 30 to 40, just cause I'm not getting much speed out of the 10 to 15. Um, and especially the, the fly sprints where you have like a 10 yard buildup. Um, I think that maybe for like a really stiff power lifter who hasn't sprinted in you know, 15 years that not worrying so much about like that initial takeoff, um, is when they maybe hurt themselves. I don't know. Or avoiding the top end strength. I can't really speak to it, but yeah, I've like, uh, each workout I'll like feel myself being more confident and going faster and faster and all that. Um, so it's nice. Um, but yeah. Um, so what about samEQuestion, but for Olympic lifts and this doesn't even have to be for just an average Joe, um, I'm kind of thinking more towards strongman competitors because I have a little bit of opinion about this. Um, not that you need to speak to strongman competitors, cause I know that's not your thing. but just to open it up, what are some benefits of Olympic weightlifting rather than getting better at the clen and jerk and the snatch? Yeah, I kind of have all my talking points like memorized with this now because I've talked about it so much, but like some of the underrated or like unrecognized kind of value of the Olympic lifts is one, they require you to produce a propulsion onto an external body of mass in like a different way than any other sort of lifting, because like if you're going to do a trap bar jump, the mass, the bar is just, it becomes an extension of your body mass. You're not like moving it in this like three-dimensional way that you would with a clen. It's like a weighted vest jump almost. Right, exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, you have to create propulsion onto this external body of mass and then you have to yield that mass in a matter of milliseconds. So you go from this like very powerful kind of explosive movement, then you have to relax and then you have to brace again in order to yield the mass, all within a matter of milliseconds. Various joints, whether it's the shoulder, the hip, the knees, the ankles are moving from one end range to another end range as quickly as possible under that load, under that stress. So I think all that stuff is just really overlooked a lot of times, and because like I'll always hear the argument, especially among like collegiate strength conditioning coaches that like, oh, we don't need to clen, we don't need to snatch, which is true, you don't have to, but we don't need to do it because the turnover of the catch is only specific to the sport of weightlifting. And it's like, no, being able to drop your center of mass under another external body of mass to gain better leverage on that external body of mass can be applied in so many different other contexts. So that's just like some of the value that Olympic lifts provide that I think a lot of people don't recognize. Yeah, dude. You were the first person I ever heard explaining like that, because I would always hear it as, it's just triple extension. It's good for triple extension. And I'm like, all right, and that was a good enough reason for me. But I could never argue, and not that I wanted to, but I can never argue against that versus a loaded jump or trap bar. Why not just trap bar jump? But the triple flexion, dropping under that weight quickly, quick breathing, bracing, it makes so much sense in my head for strongman. And every time I do, I host a competition or I join a competition, a strongman competition, just at the local level I'm speaking. There's almost always a weightlifter or crossfitter who's pretty good at weightlifting who comes into the competition and does really well and blows people away. And I would always think, why are they so good at this? And I would always think, oh, they're athletic. You're not even being able to explain what that means. Just like, oh, I guess they're just athletic. But when you started listing those things and in Haas Olympic, you explain all that in the ebook, the things you just talked about, I was like, a light bulb went off. There are so many instances in strongman where you do have to maneuver around this heavy external resistance. So for example, weightlifters that join these competitions, I have one example in my head of a recent competition, but he's loading a stone up. He has to get one to win. He has to get one more to win. He loads a stone up and he gets it stuck on the bar that he's trying to put it over and stuck there. And he just quickly adjusts, pops under it and then presses it up so fast. And it's kind of the same thing of him being able to drop underneath it. When I look at just me doing clens in my routine, another one of my trening partners who does clens in his routine, we're really good at tire flips, picking the tire up and then jumping back under it. When you look at strongmen trying to do an axle bar clen, it's god awful. They can't, even with a continental clen, they have to get it up to their stomach and then they can't jump under it. Once it's from their stomach up to their shoulders, they can't catch it with bent knees. They just don't have the ability. So they're catching it while standing up high. Not only do you have to clen it or pick it up so much higher, but it's just that inability to catch something and triple flexion that's really limiting them. And so when I saw you bullet point those things, I'm like, this makes so much sense of why these Olympic weightlifters do so well at strongman competitions. And yeah, it just makes so much sense. And I know not everyone watching this cares about strongman, but I just think that strongman, CrossFit, any other thing that has to do with that, I think it helps a lot. A lot of the pushback I receive regarding those arguments is that you can't quantify it. Because that's a qualitative analysis of the movement. But it's just because you can't quantify it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Yeah, I think that's where thEQualitative analysis of the lifts I think is a lot morecompelling and valuable than thEQuantitative power production, rate of force development, those kinds of things. Because I feel like people may agree with my conclusion on the Olympic lifts, but they can't articulate their position as well. And so they end up resorting to saying, oh, clens are good because of power production, triple extension and rate of force development. But then you pigeonhole yourself because if those are your arguments, then the anti Olympic lifting side can just yeah, they can throw trap bar jumps at you and you like you can't continue your defensive of the clens, you know? Yeah, and I never tried to like to argue it. But yeah, I was the same. I would always be like, yeah, I guess like, why can't like my front rack position sucks? Why can't I just do this? I'm like, right, good. So So yeah, that makes a lot of sense. What about one thing you didn't mention? And I want to talk a little bit. It's just an anecdote. But what about the this concept of muscle elasticity, and quickly, quick trensition from triple extension into flexion, triple flexion, and to have that ability? Is that is that trenable? Is that something you can lose? IMean, I would think I would think so. But like, you think about like, the elastic qualities of like the muscle tendon unit, whether it's your patellar tendon, your quad tendon, like even some like the muscle tendon units of the hip that are involved in plyometrics and sprinting, those are always going to be trened at shallow joint angles, like the knees never in full flexion, the hips never in full flexion. And when you do things like sprinting and jumping, that's going to tren that tissue for the elastic qualities of that tissue. So like the Olympic lifts are probably the only is one of the only ways that I can think of that's going to tren the elastic qualities of that tissue. In deep ranges of motion, you could do like yielding plyos, like deep range, D tier plyos, things that like Matt Watson talks about. And those are all great, too, but you just can't load it as heavy. No, IMean, you could hold like a 20 pound medicine ball and do these squatted jumps, which I do, and I'm a proponent of, but you're not going to be able to, you're not going to be able to do that same kind of movement with 140 kilos on a bar, you know? Yeah, yeah, exactly. I think there's more incentive when you are lifting something, when you're trying to get under a 300 pound barbell, rather than doing those, those squatted plyos like that. So the reason I ask is, I'm gonna, this is, this kind of sounds silly in my head, but it's just my experience recently. So I stopped weightlifting, or I stopped doing clens. I've done snatches on and off, but clens were always part of my routine. But I stopped doing clens for like a year, year and a half, and I wasn't doing any sprinting. I would still run, but it was never, it was never sprints, no top speed. And there were a handful of times, probably like four to five times, where I hurt myself, just not in the gym. Like I strened, it was either my hip, my quad, or my calf, just doing like stuff around the house. Like I had this hill outside of my house, and the grass was wet, and I'm walking down, and I like slip, and I catch myself, but I catch myself like almost, you know, falling on my ass. And I like pulled something in my quad when I did that. I'm like, damn. And then another time I was camping, and I just jumped. I literally, my truck bed was down. I like just stepped off, and I did a depth jump off my truck. And the same thing in the other hip, like the high in my quad. And this was happening often. And then one time, my son, we were at the park, and I was chasinGHim around, and I felt like this pop in my calf. And I'm like, god damn, man. I'm thinking, I think this is what people confuse like being old. You know, like, oh, I'm getting old. I can't do the things that I once did. But that was the point where I'm like, I think I need to start putting more like explosive trening, and jumps, and maybe even some sprinting. I can't even like sprint to catch my kid into my routine, and put some of these Olympic lifts back into it. And I felt fine since. But I just think that like that amplified to like a decade later, or two decades later of never doing that stuff. I think that people will often say, I'm getting in my mid-30s. I'm getting old. But it's like, well, maybe it's just because you've gone a decade without doing that. And I'm not pretending like age has no impact on things. But I think that like, if you just think about muscle elasticity, and I guess you're being more or less prone to injury as you get older. I think if you maintain this stuff, I personally think if IMaintain the stuff in my program, I think that's going to... 🎵ṆṐ Ꮪ ᏙᏡᏠᏞ 🎤🎥🎧🎬💃🎬🎤🎠🎮🔈📃🏂🏾💘🏻😂💯🎵🏠😁😚� diversion, bottleneed, 🗢🖆🏇🝕🔊💢×💭💨🎫🔀💨🔀💩💪🔫🔂🔂👆🚁💾💜💢🎵🔀💚🚧 I think doing if I was to like max out sprint across the football field when I'm 60 would be badass So I'll be do something. That would be really cool So No, I've heard you say his name a million times So like yeah, I kind of criticize him a lot, but he made a post I guess there's just a video of like price some 65 70 or 70 year old guy Doing exactly that like sprinting across the soccer fields like yeah, that's that's the goal Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, and I don't I don't that dude didn't look I think I've seen that video I don't think he looked like a physical specimen or like some sort of outlier. It's just like Yeah, I think that if you just if you don't use it you lose it certainly And even if I am gonna lose it like each every every decade in my life I'd at least try to minimize that you know the amount that it's gonna think I'm gonna lose it All right, dude, so I I want to ask a couple. I don't know if you're pressed for time or not. I want to ask for the day Okay, cool. I want to ask a few questions in there were submitted Through Instagram as well as I'm actually gonna leave the the YouTube community post If you want to answer any of those specific you're more welcome to take them and I know you'd like to do thEQ&A trening videos. I think people really appreciate that thEQuestions that I got on Instagram were actually very similar to that That's why I didn't worry about both of them some of thEQuestions initially, I'm kind of like these are lazy questions, but Then I realized maybe they don't know they don't know of you so they haven't looked into your stuff But I think that a lot of programming questions Would be answered by I'm not like trying to like sell you here, but would be answered by just getting your ebooks That's the reason why That's the main reason why I got Those three Olympic launch Haas project in the Olympic because I had a bunch of questions and rather than being like hey Do you suggest I squat on two days a week and then like just get the program and then all thEQuestions are pretty much answered So a lot of them werEQuestions like that Like how many days a week would you suggest this or if I'm an intermediate wanting to get better at sprinting jumping? What would you suggest and it's like IMade a program right here for you so anyways You don't have to be super in-depth with these just kind of off the top of your head, but This guy asks despite its technicality. Do you think regular gym goers should try out Olympic lifts? You've kind of already said yes if they want to Any any more thoughts on that Yeah, yeah, IMean no no more thoughts nothing to elaborate But yeah, yes, but I would if someone has no interest in it, then I'm right to say you should go Yep If you have interest absolutely, it's worth it And I think I definitely think it's worth it Putting in the time even if it takes you like four or five months to kind of get somewhat proficient with it It's definitely worth the time that you maybe the time lost I guess Doing light sets light weights focusing on technique and proficiency before you start loading up the bar I definitely think it's worth it in the long run. Yeah, I have the same answer I work with I've worked with a lot of people Especially older people who do starting strength and in starting strength like one of the progressions You do deadlifts for one set of five and then eventually you'll alternate between deadlifts and power clens And they'll ask me like for a session to work on their power clens Like should I be doing these power clens? And the first thing I'll ask you is do you want to do the power clens and some of them like yeah I'd love to but some are like hell no I hope I I'm just doing it because it's written here, but I do not want to do it I'm like, you don't have to do it at all. So all right I'm this is kind of AI'm sure a Silly answer, but is a 405 clen and jerk possible I know you won't have an exact answer this but is a 405 pound clen and jerk Possible for a tall lifetime natty lifter with basic human genetics. I I know you You gotta give it a go and you'll find out but Yeah, dude shoot for the moon because if you fail you might still land on a star Maybe you'll get a 385 clen and jerk, you know, whoops. So A lot of thesEQuestions also could be easily found on YouTube channel, which is why I didn't didn't select them You've already talked about returning to sprinting after years of not sprinting What's your opinion on super max eccentric trening with pro athletes Anything there do you ever utilize that? Oh, I don't know I don't use it and then my quote Mike my follow-up questions That would be When you're saying super max, are you asking are you referring to a weight that is just higher than your one rep max Because I've made it. I've made a video on this before we're like have you read triphasic before from Cal deeds? No, are you familiar with it at all? Mm-hmm little bit Yeah, so in in triphasic Cal prescribes what he calls super maximal loading And I think if I remember right I don't want to misrepresent him The highest weight he prescribed is a hundred and twenty percent of your one rep max So it's heavier than a weight than you that you can lift concentrically But my position is that if you can actually control the eccentric, it's not super max Because then it's still submaximal eccentric contraction So that would be my question is are you referring to something like that or you're referring to a weight that you actually can't control? and you get stapled right as soon as you Unwrapped the bar because that would obviously be a lot more stressful than a submaximal even though it's Even though it's so even though it's super maximal compared to your concentric muscle contraction But no, I don't I don't use that with any anybody I work with I have tried it in the past with the basketball team when I work with you and immense basketball and The implementation of it. I was I was such an idiot man. It just didn't work out well, cuz then you get guys who I Don't know it's 18 to 22 year old basketball players who one don't have any interest in lifting the first place They're not paying attention You get guys who? Unwrapped the bar their spotter you need a spotter for using that kind of weight the spotters not paying attention He gets to the bottom can't stand up and now he's like asking for help for a spotter and the spotters not paying You know, it just doesn't work very well. So Ever since then no, so the answer is no, I don't prescribe it for anybody I'm not necessarily opposed to it on principle, but I haven't Just like logistically. I don't think it would work well for most most people Yeah, I think that yeah, so super max. They might be referring to percentage of one or max But you're saying a true super max Eccentric would be something that you can't you can't resist and you're just trying your hardest to But yeah, dude, I I would not want to do that Especially if I had less interest in lifting It's and especially if you're you're having a bunch of athletes like, all right, we're gonna do five sets of failed squats today And even if it did have like a little bit of validity to it there is this This concept of like I don't I hate doing it. So I'm not gonna do it. Like if I was to say Hey, if you want to get your deadlift strength up studies show that the best thing for increasing deadlift strength is just 10-second isometric holds like maybe you'll put that in a little bit in your trening, but you're still gonna do normal deadlifts You know, I don't want to just grind on something, you know, every single time I deadlift I want to actually pick it up and set it down because I enjoy that. So yeah, that doesn't sound fun to me And yeah, you definitely have a team atmosphere to do that or else you're gonna strip plates off and pick it back up so So this all put these two questions together they say Will I I never see will doing any machine exercises like leg extensions and leg curls Does he think that they're useful and then someone else or leg extensions leg curls and machine stuff Essential for programming could you talk a little bit about that? I yeah, I won't say much. I won't say anything more. Go ahead Um, I don't have access to them in my garage or It's just racks and bars and weights So that's like the main reason I don't use them. Even if I did have access to them. I probably wouldn't utilize them very much But again, I'm not opposed to him I think and I learned this from Jake Turner. Are you familiar with Jake, you know, Jake I've seen I've heard you talk about him on your yeah, he's one of my friends, too Yeah, he's big into like tendon rehab specifically like other tendinopathy he's a huge proponent of machines like leg extensions is as far as like a return-to-play protocol and So if you're in a situation like that I would definitely and it's way too light. So you take the pin out and you go you make a big jump, but it's still like way too light. And you end up like having to do a bunch of warm ups as trying to figure out the appropriate load. So yeah, I'm not opposed to them. But that's like the main reason I don't use them. Yeah, that reminds me. Can you talk for a second about you're pretty much just repeating something that I that I thought about the sort of the air with progressive overload and that people usually just underdose things in order to facilitate progressive overload. Can you talk about that? Yeah, and I think this is this is really common in like, my field of like, college, college, division one strength conditioning, where you like program four weeks out. A really easy example of this is like, I could program four sets of five on a reverse lunge for somebody. Well, they know, if they start with the 40 pound dumbbells week one, then grab the 45s week two, then the 50s week three, and they write it down on their card. They've demonstrated to me that they've gone up in weight. But like, yeah, they've just significantly underdosed themselves the first few weeks, just so that they can progressively overload, but they didn't really apply an effective stimulus to elicit any sort of adaptation. And it probably is probably true for a lot of people who are just trened by themselves, too. I know I'm guilty of that in the past. Yeah, yeah, I've said it before, too. So IMake sense. Like, allow yourself room to progress, you know, but yeah. One thing else I'm jumping around here. But one thing else I'll say that you were talking about with the leg extensions and leg curls. Honestly, I don't think that I don't think that I wouldn't say that the squat is like, the king of lower body exercises, I guess, if you want to do something else, that's fine. It doesn't bother me. But I do think that I was doing a lot more, there was a period of time where I was doing more like hack squat machine, leg press, leg extension, leg curl, sort of like the traditional bodybuilder, lower body, which I just don't enjoy doing, but I was doing it for a little while. And I noticed like a, my glutes getting smaller and feeling noticeably weaker. And so I think that the barbell squat, just the back squat, whether it's low bar or high bar, I think does have some glute stimulation and strengthening properties that machines don't really offer. So that's just kind of anecdote or just strengthening the muscle, the hip musculature. I think squats really do that better than like a leg extension, leg curl, like isolating everything. But that's just anecdote. So is there, is there something that you have felt strongly about previously, but you've since changed your opinion on? I know that over like years, small things can change. Like, oh, I used to think this was really important. Now it's not as important. But is there anythinGHard? Like, yeah, I was a fool for saying that. Yeah. Um, there's a few different answers I could provide. One, one of them, and I'll probably have to establish some context on the back half here, but like, currently, uh, I would never, currently I would never justify what I am doing exercise selection wise, loading wise. I would never try to use rate of force development, improving rate of force development as a justification for anything. Um, obviously rate of force development is important in like the outcome of the task that you're performing. Um, it has an influence on like how high you jump, how fast you run, how much you lift. Um, but like trening for rate of force development, I think is very flawed. And I kind of came to that conclusion in the past, probably two years now. Um, but I would have in the past, I would have said like, we're doing this because we want to tren rate of force development. But now it's like, but if you just like lift heavy and you sprint several times a week, rate of force development is just like inherently trened, um, as a part of just like good, good trening. So that's 1, that's 1 answer. Another 1 would be, I really despise trap bar deadlifts. And now this is just like personal bias of me now. Um, IMade a video in the past about it. I've made an Instagram post in the past about it. Um, I just, uh, not, ah, geez. If someone's doing trap bar deadlifts, I don't have any sort of like animosity towards them, but like, I just personally don't like them. Um, and there is reasons to it, but, um, I'll just direct people to my YouTube video on that. Uh, what else? French contrast. Um, is your audience, you think your audience is familiar with French contrast? I think so. Because even some of the people who submitted questions, uh, they are coaches. Um, so I'm assuming so they might be a little more formally educated than typical power lifter. So I used, I used to, uh, prescribe French contrast for like the volleyball players and various athletes that I work with. But, um, so like the thing that changed my mind on regarding French contrast is like the argument for French contrast is like, you're going to use a conditioning activity to potentiate an explosive activity. Right. And then, um, but I think the acute PAP, the acute potentiation effect is kind of not real in a way. Like it's real, but if you just like perform the activity you want to get good at, you're better off just doing that activity for however many minutes that you're going to perform it. You're going to like reach a flow state. You're going to reach your peak performance probably quicker. Um, you don't have to go from this like bracing kind of environment or bracing position action to this more expansion, um, action. So I'm not a fan of French contrast anymore. Uh, there's definitely others that I have to think about. Oh, band assisted jumps. I'm not a fan of those. I think going back to the rate of development thing. Oh yes. Assisted. So assisted, I'm thinking band resisted would be you're jumping against the bands, but band assisted is you have bands helping you jump high, right? So you're jumpinGHigher than you would without the bands. And then are you laying there? You're just landing from a higher jump point or what? Yeah. So this is something that like Cal Dietz has talked about a ton. Max Schmarzo has talked about a ton. So you have bands typically hooked up to like the pull up bars on a rack. Okay. I've done this before. Yeah. Yeah. So you're jumping, pulling you up or Schmarzo would say that they're unweighting you. So you have less body weight to jump with. Um, but like the, again, the argument would be, it forces you to improve your rate of force development because the bands are pulling you up. You have less time to jump. Um, but like, I don't know why you would want to do that unless you're again, unless you're, unless you are doing some sort of return to play protocol and you haven't jumped in a long, in a long time, you need to accrue some jumping volume. So you need to scale the jumping down. Um, but like, it's different. It's different than an over speed sprint because there's an actual negative consequence. If you're doing over speed sprinting, because if your stride frequency is not high enough, you're going to fall on your face. But if your rate of force development isn't fast enough in a band assisted jump, there's no negative consequence. You're still jumpinGHigher anyways. Um, and then the bands are also, yeah, you're on. It's, it's reducing your body weight. So the landing impact is, uh, less than if you were just body weight only. So you don't get like the same eccentric loading, which is, you know, which in a way is even more of a reason to do plyos than the concentric action. So I have a video on that too. Yeah, I articulated better than what I just did. Yeah. What, what is, uh, what is over speed sprinting? Like downhill sprinting or how else would you, how else would you do that? Have you seen like the people, I know I did this in high school. You have one person wearing a harness, another person behind you also connected the same harness. And so you're like slingshotting the person behind you. That would be like over speeds. So the person in the back is getting the over speed. Is he getting the trening or? Yeah. And the person in front would be getting resistance. Okay. I'm thinking of like, uh, I was in high school. We have this weird kind of pulley system, uh, where, where both partners were kind of getting a trening effect. So like the, the lead person was getting resistant sprinting, but then the weird pulley system ensured that even if the person in front is slower than the person behind, they're still getting pulled. I don't know what the system was, but it was kind of a cool pulley system. Yeah. We had something like that, but it was very basic. They were called tiger bands. I don't know. I don't know why, but, um, yeah, I was thinking some sort of like, like parachute with the wind behind you, like crazy like that, but, um, all right, let's see. Um, uh, will any advice on dealing with college strength, conditioning, BS, admin coaches, eighties, bad attitudes, et cetera. Thanks. Sounds like you're fortunate enough that you don't really have to deal with that, but I'm sure within your circle, you've talked to plenty of people who go through this. Any advice? Yeah, my advice is just say no right away. If you're ever asked to do something unreasonable, because once you say yes, you've kind of opened this. I'm not in charge of football but I've been asked to like come in on a Saturday morning and open the waiting room so that they can bring a recruit in, things like that where it's like, no, I'm not, you know what IMean? Things like that. Yeah, that's the best example I can come up with, but there's other, there's just like unreasonable things. That's not part of your job description that people, that other strength coaches get asked to do, and then they end up doing it and it makes for a really, really poor work experience. Yeah. That sounds like, just like career and work advice too, not even just strength conditioning, but, and what about like, what about, he listed bad attitudes, I'm assuming bad attitudes from the, from the, the athletes. Yeah. Are you familiar with Brett Bartholomew? No. So he wrote a book called Conscious Coaching. And so I read that book when I was young. And basically the, kind of the sentiment of the book is you're going to work with a bunch of different kids from a wide range of environments that they come from, single parent, double parent, low income, high end, you're going to have a bunch of different people you're working with, you should navigate these relationships to ensure that you get buy-in, you should treat, he doesn't say like treat different people differently, but he kind of does, and I kind of fell into that trap of like, well, this kid comes from this background, so I'm going to talk to him a certain way so that he respects me and we build this relationship. But it's like, no, these are 18 to 22 year old kids. They already have their minds made up if they like you or not. A lot of times if someone has a bad attitude, you're not going to change it. Just like, I don't, I'm not saying like be a dictator in the weight room, but like you're in charge, be in charge, don't negotiate with them. Um, that doesn't mean be a dick, but you have rules, you have standards and apply them as you see fit. And I kind of screwed myself over by following that Brett Bartholomew approach when I was younger and you get walked all over a little bit. Like, Oh man, I could come up with, I could just provide, I'll provide one example here is like, I had a rule of like, you guys can pick the music, but you cannot go up to the radio station and start hitting next if you don't like a song. So if you, if you don't like a song, there's a consensus that you want to change the song, let me know and I'll go hit next. Well then at one point I like had to leave the weight room to go to the bathroom or something, so I was gone for a minute, guys were coming up, changing songs because I wasn't there. And then there's nothing I could do about it. And then I already like let them do it because I was gone. And now they got into a habit of like, now they're changing the songs. They're maybe a bad example, but no, dude, I get it. You have your rules and stick to them. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Don't be a pushover. Um, uh, yeah. And, uh, I think that they're looking to you to be an authority. So act like it. It's very much like sounds a lot like parenting and, uh, and it's a lot of parallels between that and being a gym owner of like, uh, people will ask me about, you know, being a gym owner and how do you deal with this, with your members and this and that? And my answer sounds similar to that. Um, so yeah. Um, that makes sense. Uh, let's see a couple more here. Uh, let me see. Uh, do you, do you ever plan on doing a weightlifting competition? Uh, if so, when, uh, if not, why not? I thought about it. Um, I was planning on doing it, uh, when I was really, really, really into weightlifting back in like 2018. Um, but not right now, dude, I just, I have, I do too, too many things and I don't want to go into a competition. Not really prepared for it. Like if I'm going to do a weightlifting competition competition, I want to dedicate my trening to weightlifting. Um, I don't just want to go into a competition if I haven't like been. Yeah. If I haven't dedicated time to it. So I knew if I, if I was going to do that, I would have to reduce the amount of basketball I play. I'd have to reduce some of the other activity I participate in. And I just don't want to do that right now. Yeah, that's good. I think a lot of people think that they need to compete or they need to have these specific goals when they don't really want to, and so they do. And I just see it all the time with powerlifters, people like signing up for the next meet because they had a bad meet and I'm just like, why don't you just like take a couple of years, just tren, you know, like, don't worry about that. But, uh, yeah, I get that. Um, uh, let's see, that's, uh, pretty much it. Now I'm into the YouTubEQuestions, which I'll let you take a look at and you can do with it what you want, but I wanted to ask you. So when you, uh, regarding content, when you look at content online, it could be just as general as like fitness content. I know that general fitness isn't really your thing. You're not like necessarily trying to motivate someone to get off the couch and go work out. It's more, it seems to be more for people who are wanting to, who care about strength, who want to have some sort of performance, um, uh, and want to get better, uh, anyways, maybe former athletes, but anyways, when you look at strength and conditioning content or general fitness content, what do you see that bothers you most? And then the second part to that question is what do you, what gaps do you see need to be filled that you want to, that you want to, uh, contribute to? So when you make content, you're obviously not just like, oh, okay. What's going to get the most likes or what's going to be like the next funny skit or what's going to be like, you actually want to teach something or offer something. So first, what bothers you most that you see, if anything, and then, uh, what kind of gaps do you see that you want to fill? It doesn't have to be any sort of like, uh, well thought out answer, but just generally like, what are you trying to contribute to content that seems to bother me the most would be like when someone is making, and this is what I try to avoid is when someone's making like the very, the most obvious, uh, the most obvious thing. Like, I don't like the, here are the three reasons why you should be taking creatine, things like that. You know what IMean? Like anyone who already cares about lifting, they probably already know if they want to take creatine or not. You're not going to change anyone's mind. Um, stuff like that. And then, sorry, I keep name dropping all these people. My friend Austin, he just made a YouTube video like three, three days ago talking about, and it's so true. And I've talked about it before is that amongst, among college, strengthening, conditioning, there's the sentiment of like, we need to push the field forward. We need to push the field forward. We need to create better opportunities for us. We need to challenge each other's opinions. We need to be open-minded. We need to continuing to educate ourselves. Um, and in my opinion, the best way to do that is to like engage in a real contentious debate with somebody. Um, but the people, and I don't even care about like pushing the field for it. I don't like, I really don't care about that. I'm just kind of operating in that framework for right now, but like the same people and I could give names, I don't know if I want to give names right now, but people can probably figure out what I'm talking about. Um, these same people who talk about how important it is to be open-minded to continue, to update your way of thinking, to update your, yeah, update your way of thinking. Um, these same people will never actually engage in a real, uh, contentious debate. They'll never actually face any scrutiny. And they kind of create these echo chambers of these, they create their own social circles of people that they agree with and they like, and they stick with them. And then if there is some sort of challenge to their idea, they take it as a personal insult. And I find that to be really unfortunate in collegiate strength and conditioning. So that's one thing. Yeah. I like that, dude. I like your, uh, I listened to your podcast or interviews that you're on where you, you'll take that head on. Like if someone disagrees with you or if you disagree with them, I'll go and talk to you about it. Um, which I think that is the most productive way to go about it. Uh, and man, I don't know if it's just maybe being older and more mature, but I've, I used to, uh, I've come to, to accept that too. Like if I can't sit here and argue this point, uh, and stand, stand solid in my opinion, I'm not going to like go, go parade around and explain it. Whereas before, um, yeah, I would like say, this is the way and then not be able to argue it. Or I wouldn't want to argue with someone else. Um, or I would just make a YouTube video criticizing this person or this thing instead of like actually on the back end, trying to talk to this person. Hey, you want to talk about this? Cause I don't think that's, that's right. Uh, I would just make a YouTube video and it's like, yeah, creating like my, my safe space. Um, I want to make one thing clear. Like I'm not out here, like trying to pick debates with everybody. Um, but like, IMean, Fred, Justin Lima, Nick DeMarco, all of these guys, Justin Lima actually did do a debate with me, which I really do appreciate. And that's on my YouTube channel, but like all of these guys, um, uh, and not that I'm super sensitive or anything, but like I have my content, they kind of make contrarian content to me. And it's like these subliminal insults to me. So like, I've reached out to Fred Duncan. He's declined to debate. I've reached out to Nick DeMarco. which was awesome. I know, who else? There's a few others that I've witnessed. I think Mike Israetel and Lyle McDonald did one. That kind of stuff is actually way more productive than just making subtle Instagram disses on people. Yeah, absolutely. And even watching some of the videos you've done with those people you were talking about, where it is a debate, it's never, I never come from it like, oh, let me see this guy roast this guy, or let me see this guy get shot down. It is like, I feel like the viewer can learn a lot, because it gets them to think about how they, you know, why they do what they do, why they have their own opinions. And I do think it's good. I don't remember who it was, and it doesn't really matter. But it was, it was a frustrating one. I was like, where's this going? Because you were, you were debating with someone, and it just, the guy kept falling back to, well, you know, I just, I just disagree. But it was never like, yeah, okay. It was never explaining like, why they disagree, other than like, I just want to disagree, which doesn't get anywhere. But yeah, so sometimes the, they might not like end in a hard like, oh, we've come to an agreement. Like, yeah, you were right. But at least it's, puts all the side, both sides out there, and you can kind of just pick and choose the viewer of which one you like. And yeah, it does get, like you had mentioned earlier, when I hear these debates, and I hear these both points, it's kind of like adding to my arsenal of when I talk to people, and even if I'm genuinely trying to help like clients, and like, hey, why can't I do this instead? And I'm like, I can, I can tell you a few reasons why, rather than like, I don't know, I guess we can if you want to. So yeah, it's a, it is productive. It's not just a matter of who, you know, tallies of like who won, who lost. But it is productive to hear both sides. And then sometimes you even get some activity in the comments, or someone's like, you said this, but here's my, here's my take. So yeah, it can be, it can be productive without being like a circle jerk of like, you know, no answers to like, everyone's right. And we're going to consider it can be, it can still be somewhat productive. And yeah, sometimes it does come down to like, yeah, I guess you're right, but I'm still not going to do it. And it's like, all right, that's good enough. Cool, man. The last thing I want to talk about is your, I want to give you an opportunity to talk about your programs. For anyone interested, what's the difference between all the programs? I actually didn't really know when I went to it, other than Haas Olympic, I knew what that was about. But talk a little bit about the difference. You have Haas Project, Launch, 2.0, Olympic, and then like Haas Unit, right? And then you do the Concurrent, tren Heroic thing, but you could talk about that because I'm curious too what the difference is. Yeah. So Haas Concurrent, that's just like my subscription-based programming. It really is just the trening I do that I upload onto tren Heroic that people can follow along with me if they want. With that, you get access to the tren Heroic app, which tracks all of your numbers for you, which is awesome. It's really user-friendly. But then there's a group chat in there that I'm involved with. So people put form checks in if they want, or just basic questions or whatever, whatever the group chat can be used for, people use it. Haas Olympic is basically just an ebook discussing why I believe the Olympic lifts are valuable outside of just like if you'recompeting in Olympic weightlifting. Haas Project, basically that's just like, I don't want to categorize it, but yeah, like a strength hypertrophy type program. It kind of outlines the principles in the ebook and mixes in a little bit of like athletic activity, sprinting, jumping, piles in there too. Launch 2.0, that's basically an ebook discussing like principles of becoming more explosive. It emphasizes piles, sprinting, that kind of stuff with a little bit of Olympic lifting, a little bit of strength trening too. And then Haas Unit, that was just a collaboration I did with one of my friends, Blaine McConnell. And that's not an ebook, that's just a program. So I don't want people to purchase that expecting something that it isn't. So that's just like a template. That's more of like something you get from like the barbell. It's just a template that you get. Nice, man. That's it. Do you have anything else you wanted to speak on? No, this is fun. Yeah, good. Good, man. I'll put your information. You're pretty easy to find. You don't have any complex name or Instagram. And then YouTube is the same way. And I will say your YouTube channel is like an encyclopedia of information. Like I just found that if you just on your YouTube channel, if I just type in a topic or even just a question, you'll have a video or a number of videos on that, which is really refreshing. Whereas IMight say, I'm not comparing your channel to my channel or anything, but IMight say, yeah, I have a ton of information on my channel. But if you want something specific, you're gonna have to do some digging to find where this video is. And even your title in your videos is exactly what the video is about. So that's nice. You literally can like rapid fire watch your videos. So that's cool. And I actually think it's kind of funny that there might've been a time and it's even now, in order to set yourself apart, you had to have really high quality editing and videos and our cameras and lenses, and you'd have a perfect thumbnail and really good titling. But now that everyone does that, and it's so oversaturated that I feel like your stuff stands out to me because it is just, I just want information. I don't give a shit about everything else. Like I don't, I don't need a full like week vlog of like, you know, what you're eating for breakfast, I guess. So it's nice anyways. That's it, dude. Thank you very much for having this talk. Yeah. Modern man. I appreciate it. Of course, man. I'm going to close this recordinGHere.