Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall. I found myself camping at a KOA last weekend, which is basically a campsite that has a bunch of kids activities. And my daughter went down for a nap. My son was busy with his grandparents for about 45 minutes. So I found this was a perfect opportunity to get an arms session in. I knew going into this camping site, I'm sorry, this camping trip, that I was gonna be doing one trening session. So I frontloaded all my workouts for the week. I did Monday through Thursday, and then I saved the arms trening for camping, because it would be easiest to do a good arm session while camping versus trying to do heavy squats or Romanian deadlifts. By the way, any trailers or motor homes or RVs that you see in this video are not mine. So don't ask. So I want to talk about this trening session, but before I do, I'd like to discuss the titling for this video, Alpha Dad. I thought of this while I was doing this workout. And so I kind of wanted to share my thoughts here. Anytime I do a workout like this in public, outside of a gym, I do get some looks. And understandably, if I was walking through a campground and I saw someone working out, I would also take a look at what they're doing or kind of look out of the corner of my eye. But sometimes it's just kind of like these looks kind of roll in their eyes or look at me like, is this dude serious? What is this some go-hard alpha dad? And I understand this, but I have a couple of things to say about it. So my family is, this doesn't surprise any of my family when they see me doing this stuff because they know me. They've come to expect this. But every once in a while, someone will question or kind of in a way challenge what I'm trying to do to say like, dude, really, do you have to do this? You can't just miss one day. Are you that obsessed? Can you just chill? And anytime I'm met with any of this type of resistance, I don't try to explain myself. All I say is, I just really enjoy doing this stuff. I just leave it at that. I don't try to explain anything further than that. And that'll get people to kind of shrug their shoulders and say, okay, I guess if you enjoy doing it. And at the core, that is actually the answer. I just really enjoy doing this. This is me. This is who I am. I've been this way my whole life. Even when I was 12 years old playing Pop Warner football, I would go run hill sprints on my own at that young age. We'd go camping at the beach and I would go do sprints in the sand. So nothing's changed. And if you genuinely love doing something and you really enjoy working out, but maybe it's an inconvenience or you're in an odd place and you might feel embarrassed or out of place if you try to get a workout in public like this, don't be embarrassed. If you wanna do it, do it. Don't worry about standing out. Well, let me show you real quick my setup. I got these TRX straps on these branches here. They're very, very sturdy. Here I'm hanging with one arm. There's no flex in the branch. The only flexing you're gonna see in this video is me flexing. I am actually really happy with my results so far on NH's program. So a lot of arm flexing. But anyways, if you wanna do something and something genuinely makes you happy, like working out, do it. Don't feel like you need approval from other people. Don't worry if you stand out a bit. Just do it anyways. Allowing myself some flexibility to do an arm session while camping gets me to enjoy this camping trip even more because I don't feel like I'm missing out. I don't feel like I have to completely uproot my schedule and get rid of doing the things that I love doing. I can blend this in. I can adapt and overcome. Still get a good trening session in even while enjoying some vacation time with the family. So anyways, the program that I'm following, the arm program as written by NH, this is obviously modified because I'm not in the gym, but it starts out with an overhead press and then a row. I've been doing an overhead press and then a hammer strength lat pulldown. What I did here that you saw in the beginning of the video was a TRX pushup, but I actually reached out overhead. So it was kind of like an overhead press. Felt like a very, very modified handstand pushup. After that, I did some inverted rows. I was doing 10 to 20 reps of everything. For the inverted rows, I would just make myself more vertical as I kind of hit failure and making myself more vertical made the row a little bit easier so I could burn out and do more reps. Moving on, I would do a super set of preacher curls and overhead extensions, tricep overhead extensions. So while I'm doing these preacher curls, which I don't know if there's another video of me doing preacher curls, but you'll notice that I'm trying to bring my elbows forward and up, and I'm trying to just curl at the elbow joint, just use the biceps. I'm trying my best not to drop my elbows and pull my elbows at my sides because that's going to use some lat and shoulders. And I'm imagining there's a preacher curl pad underneath my tricep, so my elbow's stationary, just like if I was doing a preacher curl. And then the overhead extensions, as you see here, those were super set, those two exercises. Both four sets of 10 to 15 reps. After that, I've got my band pack here, just some mobile bands that I bring with a Spud Ink hand harness strap thing. So I took a heavy band, connected it just like you see here around my feet, and then did some curls. These are in place of hammer curls that I would be doing. So here I did a super set of hammer curls and band press downs. Bands are great, and they definitely are better than nothing, but one drawback to the bands is that the bands are lightest when your muscle's in its lengthened position, so at the bottom of the curl, and then it's most difficult at the very top. So I would rather have more tension at the bottom, but it is what it is. Using a dumbbell or a cable, it's going to be much smoother and much more constant in the tension, but using these bands, the strength curve changes a little bit, so it's definitely a different feel, but it certainly put some stress on my elbows and on my biceps, which I wanted, and it gave me a sick pump, brah. So that was all good. So they worked really well for me. And I super set, a giant set, all of my workouts with doggy pets, doggy belly scratches. And here's again, the band press downs. That's it guys, thanks for watching, and always remember, tren on time.