 Hey everyone, I'm Allen thrall, and in this video, I'm going to answer thEQuestion, did I lose strength when I lost weight? This question is very popular, and I've already talked about it a couple of times on this YouTube channel. Since it keeps being asked, I'm going to keep answering it. My first video response to thEQuestion, did you lose strength when you lost weight? Was something like, yeah, probably, maybe, I suppose so, I guess. In this video, I want to answer this question a bit more objectively, as well as tell some stories. When I first got into lifting weights, for football, for football, for football, for football, for football, for football, for football, for football, I had no knowledge of eating big, to get big and strong. I didn't know what bulking and cutting was. I just ate when I was hungry, and I pushed myself in the gym. It wasn't until I started reading about power lifting and strongman online, mainly T Nation, that I started to really become allured to the concept of gaining weight and bulking up. I bought the Starting Strength book in 2010 to learn about barbell movements, and as an impressionable young man, I really bought into the advice to gain weight if you want to gain weight, you want to be strong. Drink a gallon of milk a day. Adult males weigh at least 200 pounds. Strength is the most important thing in your life, and you've got to gain weight to get strong. And it wasn't just starting strength. I remember reading Jim Wendler saying something like, you want to put 10 pounds on your bench? Gain 10 pounds of body weight. And I thought to myself, awesome. Jim Wendler trening videos were on my motivation playlist when I would go to the computer lab and the Marine Corps. So, of course, I was going to listen to what Jim said. When I saw Sven Carlson, Magnus Samuelsson, and Yoko Ahola trening videos, they were talking about the importance of eating a lot of calories, and I was hooked. All in. All aboard the Gain tren. I came out of boot camp at 165 pounds, and three years later, I was 255 pounds. So, needless to say, I did my part in the chow hall. Now, gaining weight does help increase your strength. That's why there are weight classes in strength sports and combat sports. It is an advantage to weigh more. World record bench press, squat, deadlift, clen and jerk, all set by heavyweights. When we're talking about absolute weight lifted. This isn't to say that a heavier athlete is always a stronger or better one. It's just saying that beinGHeavier helps you lift more weight on most exercises. A thicker waistline, bigger arms, bigger chest, bigger lats, bigger legs, thicker knee circumference. These things are advantageous to your leverages on most barbell movements. Even if the thickness comes from muscle and fat mass. Now, there are some caveats to this. For example, some people notice a decrease in their deadlift strength when gaining body weight due to the change in starting position. Some strongman competitors also notice that low picks, like Atlas Stones, become more difficult because the extreme range of motion is just more difficult to reach with the expanded front porch. When I started my quest to gain weight, I cared about the number on the scale just as much as I cared about the weight on the bar. Every time I saw the scale number creep up 5, 10, 15, 20 pounds, I celebrated it as a metric of progress. Now, when you're bulking and the weight on the bar increases, it's difficult to measure how much of your strength increase is due to actually getting stronger or just gaining weight. Meaning, if I gain 20 pounds on my waist and 40 pounds to my squat, am I stronger? Or is my thicker waist just helping my squat leverages? If I lose 20 pounds on my waist and my squat only drops 10 pounds, am I weaker? Or am I actually stronger now relative to my body weight? If I weigh 300 pounds and bench 300 pounds, but I can only perform 3 pull-ups, am I stronger than someone who weighs 200 pounds, only benches 200 pounds, but can perform 15 pull-ups? Obviously, it depends on our goalposts, our target, our metric of strength. Are we measuring strength as absolute numbers or numbers relative to our body weight? It is very nuanced, but I'm going to try to answer thEQuestion, did I lose strength when I lost weight? Yes. One year after I started losing weight, my low bar back squat was less, my bench press was less, and my deadlift was less. However, weight loss was not the only variable that changed during that time. I also stopped following a strict powerlifting program. Increasing my one-run max was not my goal. My wife and I had our firstborn son, which changed my lifting routine. Lack of sleep and the new parent adjustment meant I was not super motivated to increase my big three lifts. I was still trening just as often as I was before I had the baby. Well, before my wife had the baby, I should say. I just didn't have the desire or mental drive to put my limited energy towards powerlifting. But since losing weight, I have set some new PRs. So I have gotten stronger in different measurements of strength. I deadlifted 500 pounds for four reps on an axle bar without straps. That's a PR. I clen and jerked on an axle 315 pounds. I won motion a 305-pound stone to 50 inches. I front squat 405 pounds. I got first in Winter Warrior Strongman Competition 2019. I loaded a 305-pound stone to 59-inch platform, which was a PR height. I had a 335-pound Viking push press. I carried 325 pounds per hand for 50 feet on the farmer's walk. I circus dumbbell pressed 180 pounds. I went to Strongman Corporation Nationals for the first time. I carried a 700-pound yoke for 100 feet without dropping it. I got first in Wrath of the Strongest Strongman Competition 2021. First in Wrath of the Strongest Strongman Competition in 2022. I ran a couple of 10K races. I ran a 10.5-mile trail race. I deadlifted 545 pounds and ran a 5-minute and 37-second mile within 24 hours of each other. So while some lifts have gone down, others have gone up. I don't think my powerlifting numbers dropped in that first year because I lost weight. I think they dropped because I wasn't focusing on them. And if you're someone wanting to lose weight but you're afraid of losing strength, don't be. You can't go wrong with continuing to lift weights, eating enough protein, getting enough sleep, and managing life stress. If you do these things, you will retain your strength while shedding some extra pounds. And even if your strength does temporarily dip down, you know how to get it back. You've built strength at least once before. Just do it again. If it's looks that you're worried about, you know, I've been in this place too. You've always been the big guy and you like playing that part. Understand that losing some body fat will actually make you look a little bit more muscular. In the pic on the right, I am skinnier, lighter, probably less muscle mass. But I look more muscular than the picture on the left. Maybe not with an XL t-shirt on, but at least shirtless I do. Now for anyone wondering why I decided to lose weight, here are the Cliff Notes reasons. I looked and felt like trash. For as much time as I spend in the gym, I would like to at least kind of look like I work out. For my frame, being 250 pounds was extremely hard. I would force feed myself around the clock and I was just getting tired of that. After having my firstborn baby, I felt it was far easier to skip meals or just eat less than it was constantly stressing about getting in enough calories every day. Atlas Power Shrugged has a great post for new fathers that says, No matter how busy you are, you always have time to not eat. Meaning, this could be a great time for a cut. Eating that much and being that heavy for me was not healthy. I knew I was not going to eat like that for the rest of my life. So I decided to embrace the change now rather than five years from now. And I told myself that if strength dipped down due to weight loss, I was prepared to take on the challenge of building it back up. Just like I was ready to take on the challenge of getting stronger when I first started lifting weights. Sometimes the journey of getting stronger is even more exciting than being at the finish line. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren On Time! Hmmm