 Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thorell here, here at Untame Strength Gym in Sacramento, California. If you follow the powerlifting community online on social media or even the Strongman community, you'll see that a lot of people offer online coaching and online programming. If you go to a gym where powerlifters tren, chances are one or more of them offers online programming and coaching. Online coaching, not just in powerlifting but also just in fitness in general, has become a saturated market. It seems like everyone offers it and it's reached meme levels of humor. than than than than than thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalities, thanalitiesalities, thanalities, thanalitiesalities, thanalitiesalities, thanalitiesalities, thanalitiesalities, thanalitiesalitiesalities, thanalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalitiesalities and powerlifting is not a problem. In fact, I think it's a good thing, and here's why. I own this gym called Untamed Strength, for those of you who didn't know. So coming from a gym owner's perspective, if a member is excited about powerlifting and they want to invite friends into the gym to sign up, and in doing so, they also write them a program and charge them a small fee, I think all parties involved benefit. I get a new member, the person writing the program gets paid, and the newcomer gets a new program. More people interested in powerlifting means more members in powerlifting gyms, which means more money for powerlifting gym owners, which should mean more equipment in powerlifting gyms, a better equipped facility. I wouldn't have all the equipment in this gym had it not been for the huge growth hormone hormone hormone hormone on social media of powerlifting in the past 10 years. If I was some gatekeeper of powerlifting, and I said, powerlifting should be underground and hardcore, super heavyweights only, stop trying to coach all your friends. So many people say they want powerlifting to grow, but then they get mad and they tease some kid on Instagram with like 20,000 followers who's offering online coaching or who's sharing information about powerlifting. If some kid just did his first powerlifting meet, and he just totaled 1,000 pounds, and he wants to sell a program for 20 bucks, who cares? It gets more people interested in powerlifting. So here at Untamed Strength, if members want to coach each other and they want to make some money doing it, I'm totally okay with that. Now, I don't let some dude from LA Fitness bringing all his clients in here and kind of like run his business out of Untamed Strength, and I don't tolerate members approaching other members cold and bothering them with coaching solicitation. But if some big dude in the gym or some strong chick in the gym is being approached by other members and those members are asking these people to write them a program and they want to make some money doing it, I'm totally fine with that. If people want to make money coaching other people, I think that that helps with membership retention. Someone is more likely to come use the gym if they have a program to follow, especially if they're paying for that program. It's like the anti-planet fitness business model. I actually want people to use their gym membership. And someone who comes in here without any guidance or unsure of what to do and has no program, they're kind of just floating around the gym, they're probably not going to stick around for very long. And if we move outside of powerlifting gyms and we go back to the topic of these videos, powerlifting and coaching on social media, the fact that everyone offers online coaching, online programming on social media is still not a bad thing. I still think it benefits powerlifting. It gets more people interested in powerlifting, which means more members in powerlifting gyms, which probably means there's more local meets and more lifters signing up for local meets means the host is more likely to host another meet. And with the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone of powerlifting, which we've already seen, commercial gyms start to catch on and they start to allow deadlifts. They start to get bumper plates or deadlift platforms. They allow chalk. Gyms are getting more and more squat racks. They're better equipping their gyms for powerlifting. They're trying to cater to more powerlifters because they've seen the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. And many of these gatekeepers of powerlifting who want to keep it underground and hardcore and they think that powerlifting should be, you know, three to five trening partners in a garage, which is cool. Just don't get upset about powerlifting growing outside of that. But these people, like I said, these gatekeepers of powerlifting also go to these powerlifting gyms and expect it to be fully equipped with like five monoliths. You can't buy a monolith as a gym owner if you only have 10 people signed up for a membership, unless you're some sort of meathead millionaire, I guess. So again, more people interested in powerlifting, regardless of where they came from. I don't care if they came from some guy on Instagram who was DM for coaching. It just gets more people interested in powerlifting, which means it benefits everyone who's involved for coordinating things like events, seminars, clinics, and meets. Many of these hardcore old school powerlifters think, yeah, but if you want like powerlifting coaching, you should just approach the biggest dude in the gym and ask them. That's how I had to do it. Don't go approaching the pencil neck spaghetti dick powerlifter who just did his first meet and doesn't even squat 800 pounds. I hate to break it to you, but powerlifters are not the most approachable people. Hey, you looking for coaching? Yeah, go ahead and talk to that guy over there. Yeah, yeah, the 350 pound dude who's hanging from the squat rack. He's trying to get his squat briefs on. Oh no, not that one. The other one. Yeah, the one with blood coming out of his nose and the needle sticking out of his arm. Yeah, he responds to pit bull. Good luck. Someone who just recently started powerlifting and who looks a little more average is probably easier to approach. People tend to gravitate towards people that they can relate to. You might think that Louis Simmons is the greatest powerlifting coach of all time, but not everyone is going to jump in head first into all of his content. They're going to gravitate towards the person, the dude or the chick on Instagram who just deadlifted 400 pounds weighing 175 pounds because they know, like, and trust this person that they follow on Instagram. And for the record, I'm not teasing geared powerlifters. There's a group of geared powerlifters here at Untamed Strength, and they're some of the hardest working, kindest, most supportive, and welcoming members. So just know that. So these beginner powerlifting coaches kind of act as a funnel towards better coaches, I guess. It's a good way for beginner lifters to get their feet wet. Beginners can coach other beginners to an intermediate level, and then after that, this intermediate lifter probably goes and looks for a better coach to get them to the advanced stages of powerlifting. And if you're an experienced powerlifting coach, and you are jealous or upset with all these fitness influencers, online coaching, with all the clients they have, maybe you need to change your marketing plan. Get with the times. Maybe you can learn something from these people. You can't just say, well, yeah, well, IMean, I totaled 1,800 pounds, and I wrote an article for Elite FTS in 2005. You gotta get with the times. That's how businesses die. They refuse to change. They just keep doing what they've always done, and they don't evolve. I think that a little bit of basic knowledge goes a long way. You don't need to know everything under the sun. You don't need 20 years of powerlifting experience to help someone else. If you know 10 things about powerlifting, you can teach someone else who knows nothing about powerlifting. And if you wanna make some money doing that, cool. If someone was to tell another beginner lifter, squat and deadlift a couple times a week, bench press often, be patient, be consistent, don't max out all the time, just build a nice base, utilize some variations of squat, bench and deadlift to ensure you're making long-term progress. Outstanding. That's all good information. Basic knowledge goes a long way, and I don't think there's anything wrong with saying, I don't know everything, but I do know a few things, and I'm willing to teach you for a small fee. Some of you might be screaming at your screen right now, saying, look, I'm not frustrated that there's all these new lifters offering online coaching. I'm frustrated with all these new lifters giving out bad information. In my opinion, all levels of coaches are giving out bad information. It seems like every coach is giving out bad information depending on who you ask. So I coach this specific way because I think this way is best. And if you coach a different way, you're wrong. Unfortunately, a lot of people think like that. It's a lot of back and forth. So this group of people thinks that everyone who believes this is wrong. They think that everyone who believes this is wrong. It's just so much back and forth. And honestly, in my opinion, some of the gurus or the so-called experts are actually doing the most harm because they are creating barriers for entry, hurdles that you have to jump over. They're creating these hurdles that you have to jump over in order to start powerlifting or just lifting weights in general. Don't start powerlifting. Don't start lifting weights until you can move a certain way, until you understand how to breathe. If you need these specific shoes or this specific equipment, you need to understand how to properly root. You need to be able to root your big toe into the earth's soil. They create all these made up problems and then convince you that they have the solution. Sign up here, subscribe here, follow along, pay me here, attend this seminar, attend this clinic, and I'll make sure you don't get catastrophically injured just lifting weights. And honestly, I would rather direct a new lifter who's looking for some programming to some new green powerlifter who's only followed Candido's free program or 531 or The Bridge by Barbell Medicine, all of which aren't even powerlifting programs, but at least they're not tainted with a whole bunch of bad information. At least they kind of know what they know and they can just teach them very basics of powerlifting without overcomplicating everything and trying to make it seem like they know more than they actually do. I also understand that there might be some frustration with these new coaches taking advantage of new lifters by charging them or overcharging them for information that they could find online for free. And I agree with this, and I do think it should be called out. I think that every coach, no matter how experienced you are, should be referring these clients to free content first before writing a customized program in kind of a directory. Check out these videos, check out these free Templates. I do that often. If someone comes to me for customized programming and they're just starting out and I know that they could benefit from this beginner program, the Barbell Medicine's beginner prescription or this free Template or whatever, I'll just tell them, hey, I think you're going to get a lot out of this. You don't have to pay more for customized programming. So I think that having some integrity and beinGHonest is important, but this isn't just exclusively for new coaches. This is for all coaches. So to close out my thoughts on this, I think that overcharging for programming, overcomplicating the squat bench deadlift, giving out bad information, it's not something that only new coaches are doing. It's throughout the entire pallet community, beginner, intermediate, and advanced coaches. And to officially, officially close out my thoughts on this, I'm going to quote my old coach, Austin Barak. It's powerlifting. If someone wants to charge $50 to write a powerlifting program and they can only bench 300 pounds themselves, who cares? It's really not a big deal. It's not like they're charging $50 for open-heart surgery tips. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember, Tread on time!