Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall here at home because it fits the theme of today's video. I'm going to outline a very simple basic program for individuals starting from scratch, ground zero, probably below ground zero. The demographic that I'm targetinGHere, elderly, morbidly obese, overweight, sick, maybe someone who's recently hospitalized, anyone who's severely undertrened. This program might be for you or a client, family member, loved one. It is meant to be done at home, although it can be done in a gym. There's no equipment needed other than a rope, a strap, a towel, or a band to hold onto. This program is designed to increase physical independence, improve strength, balanced coordination, and confidence. Box squats. These are for the legs. Place feet around shoulder width with toes pointing out around 10 and two o'clock. Grab a towel, a strong strap, or a band and wrap it around a sturdy post. Here, I'm just using a tie down ratchet strap that I got out of my truck. Squat down to the box by pushing your knees out and sitting your hips back and down to the box or the chair. Try not to collapse on the box. Pause, stand back up. The towel, band, or strap is there to allow you to use your arms for assistance if needed. Over time, use less and less arms, eventually doing squats without your hands. Focus on keeping your feet flat as you squat down and stand up. Inclined push-ups. This is for the upper body. Find a sturdy, elevated surface. Place your hands just outside of shoulder width. While keeping your body straight, lower yourself until your chest touches the surface. Press your body back up. The higher the surface and the more vertical your body is, the easier the press will be. The lower the surface and the more horizontal your body is, the more difficult the press will be. Knee lifts. This is for abs. Stand to the side of a post. Grab the post for balance. Repeatedly lift one knee as high as you can. Switch sides. Take your hand off the post once you're comfortable. Toes to sky touches. This is for your back and upper body. Stand with your feet hip width. Bend over and try to touch your toes. Stand up and immediately reach your hands to the sky. Use any items you can find around the house to add resistance. Step-ups. This is for legs and balance. Find a short, elevated surface such as a stair. Place your hands at your hips or against the wall. Step up one leg at a time, keeping the front foot flat. Perform all reps on one leg, then switch to the other leg. Rope inverted row. Find a stable overhead beam or a sturdy tree branch. Wrap a reliable strap around the beam or branch. While keeping your body straight, lower yourself and perform two-handed inverted rows. Similar to the push-ups, the more vertical you are, the easier the row is. The more horizontal you are, the more difficult the row is. Perform anywhere between 10 to 20 reps for each exercise, 2 to 5 total sets. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, TRINITYME!