 dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri dri I got something for you. Take this. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Don't flash that around here. I guarantee you, this will get you through that plateau. How do I know this is going to work? I do it. See that guy over there? He does it. Yeah. That guy over there? Yeah. He does it. How long should I do this? Until it stops working. I've been doing it the past 10 years. Non-stop. Is that safe? What do I look like, a doctor? Look, kid, you want to get stronger or not? No, absolutely. More than anything, I want to get stronger. I've just been so frustrated lately. I do my 1x5, my 3x5, and my 5x5, and I just fail and reset and fail and reset. I really think this is going to take me to the next level. So thank you. Where'd he go? Woo! 315! Hey, baby, can you spot me? 315 going up. Gather around. Going to do 315. Three plates. Woo! Let's do this. Woo! Woo! Woo! Long poo, long poo, could have been here for a while. Follow this program and you will see a perfect blend of strength and hypertrophy. Day 1, squats. 4 sets of 4-6 reps, leaving 2-3 reps in the tank on each set. Close grip bench or feet up bench. 4 sets of 8 reps, leaving around 2 reps in the tank on each set. 40-50 total reps. These can be body weight. If body weight is easy, these can be weighted. If body weight is difficult, these can be assisted with a band or even jumping pull-ups. You could also do a combination of weighted and body weight, or body weight and assisted. These could also be barbell rows, or dumbbell rows. If doing dumbbell rows, the reps should be per arm. Day 2, bench press. 5 sets of 4-6 reps, leaving 2-3 reps in the tank on each set. Walking lunges or reverse stationary lunges. 2-3 sets of 6-10 reps per leg. Start on the lower end with these. Hashtag DOMS. Overhead press, with dumbbells, barbell, or machine. 3-5 sets of 12-15 reps. Super setting each set with loo raises. Same sets for 12-15 reps each set. Day 3, deadlift. 4 sets of 4-6 reps, leaving 2-3 reps in the tank on each set. Push-ups. 4 sets of 12-15 reps. Same idea as the pull-ups. If body weight is enough, great. If body weight is not challenging enough, do weighted push-ups, with a vest or a band around your back. If body weight is too difficult, do the push-ups on a ledge or a box. Or, you can do them on your knees. Carries. 3-6 sets of 150 feet. Any carry, preferably one where you are using your arms, like farmer's walk, or a loaded front carry. Sandbag carry, stone carry, keg carry. Whatever is going to train your grip and upper back. And legs, indirectly. If you want to shift this program to a 4-day per week routine, you can move some exercises to a 4th day, or just add more of what you want to improve on day 4. If you want to rotate squat bench deadlift variations for 4-6 weeks at a time, feel free. For example, deficit deadlifts, sumo deadlifts, block pulls, etc. Rotating every 4-6 weeks. Start on the conservative end of intensity. You don't need to take your squat bench deadlift sets to failure or maximum effort every week. If you want to push something, push the easier exercises like push-ups and pull-ups first. The varied set and rep schemes in this program will be a welcoming change of pace, as they are different than the same 3-5 sets of 5 you are used to. The new exercises and variations will also force some new adaptations. And with these new exercises, you can also focus on improving these lifts, without stressing so much about the same 3 lifts all the time. If you want to incorporate some heavy singles, doubles or triples, you can do it at the beginning of the workout. Just don't skip the volume work after. That's it! Give this a try and always remember... TRED ON TIME! TRED ON TIME!