Hey everyone, my name is Alan Thrall, owner of Untamed Straight Gym in Sacramento, California, and today I'm going to talk about how I built my legs. My legs are pretty muscular, and I'm often asked, bro, how'd you build those legs? If I ever drop into a commercial gym, someone is bound to comment on my legs. If I'm wearing gym shorts out in public, I'll get comments, and they haven't always been positive comments. I've even been teased for my legs way more times than I can count. You know, something like, big legs, no upper body. My lower body has dwarfed my upper body many times. I bet that if my legs were much thinner, there would be no negative comments about my upper body. Ah, the struggle. When people ask me what I do for my legs, it's usually in passing, and I'll just say something like, you gotta squat, because honestly, if most people took that advice, it would do them some good. But obviously, the answer is much deeper than that. Before I go on, I have thought about how easy it would be to monetize my lower body. I never actually thought about doing it, never planned on actually doing it, but I just tossed around the idea in my head. And I'm not talking about monetizing my lower body on OnlyFans, but monetizing it by saying, build big legs with this program, and I'd use pictures of my legs. You see this all the time with dudes who are pretty jacked. They might be muscular, athletic, former football or rugby players, and they'll say, build a body like me with my program, when I know the program they're selling is not what got them big. Women with top-tier booty and hip genetics will sell booty-building programs. I'm not saying that everyone who does this is being misleading, but a lot are. Anyways, back to my legs. The first thing I need to mention is genetics. Genetics play a role in your height, your eye color, your hair color, your wingspan, the size of your nose, and on and on. Genetics are responsible for desired aesthetic characteristics like wide shoulders for men, curvy hips for women, everything that we would consider God-given. Genetics also play a role in how much muscle and how much fat you naturally carry just by default. Some people carry around more muscle, less fat, less muscle, more fat, even without trening and diet. And most importantly for this video, genetics play a role in your response to trening. Two people with different parents who follow the same workout and the same diet will end up with two slightly different results. None of this is groundbreaking stuff, I'm sure you understand this. Some people can tren exactly like Arnold Schwarzenegger for 20 years and look nothing like him. Damn. Some people get pretty close. Some people have the athlete gene required to be explosive, reactive, and strong. Some people don't have an athletic bone in their body. To put it in scientific terms, some people are very responsive to physical stimulus. They are very sensitive to trening. Some people are nearly unresponsive, resistant to trening, the dreaded non-responder. I'm not suggesting that any of you watching this cannot respond to exercise. I'm just explaining that we all respond to trening differently. And I'm not trying to spread doom and gloom by saying you don't look the way you want to look because of genetics. And I'm not dismissing self-ownership of the decisions you make regarding trening, diet, and lifestyle. Yes, genetics make a difference, but everyone can improve. You're a human capable of adaptation, not a robot programmed to forever be small. So have I been in the lab to test my lower body's level of responsiveness to trening? Of course not. But if we are talking about genetics, my genetics, I do have four brothers, which is a nice little sample size for my genetic pool. You got five dudes all with the same parents. I have the biggest legs out of all my brothers, but I also take weight trening more seriously than any of them always have. They all have muscular legs, that's no doubt, but they don't have the girth that I do. I'm still talking about legs here. Two of my brothers have pretty long legs. So by default, their legs aren't going to look as big as mine because they all have pretty muscular legs without a ton of specific trening. I think that if they trened exactly like I did and they ate exactly like I did for the past 15 years, I'd be willing to bet our legs would be comparable. So unfortunately I can't say, yeah, my brothers all have stilts for legs and that was my fate until I became ironborn. I have become a lower body god purely from my efforts. I acknowledge that there might be some genetics at play here. In fact, I recall my mom saying that when my dad was young, he had a bubble butt. Gross. TMI, mom. Next, my treninGHistory. I started riding my bike when I was very young. My brothers and I would race on trails and up hills and I remember the feeling of fatigue. I'd feel my legs get pumped and I would push through that pain. I started running when I was very young and I would run very, very hard, pushing my legs and my lungs to the max. I didn't pace myself. I didn't go slow. I just ran really hard. Once I started lifting weights in eighth grade, prepping for high school football, I followed an excellent program thanks to my knowledgeable high school football coach. We lifted weights four to five days per week. Lower body movements were squats, front squats, clens, sprints, box jumps, and jump rope. For form, squats were shoulder width stance, high bar position, ass to grass, no exceptions. The reps were always eight to 12, sometimes as low as five or six, sometimes as high as 20 rep squats. The weight was always heavy enough that you had to actually try, but it wasn't so heavy that your form suffered on the first couple of reps. Rest was only as long as it took your other one or two teammates to do their sets. There was no side talk. There was no socializing. Music was at max volume. We didn't have cell phones to distract us. It was a beautiful time. I did this routine nonstop for four years, all through high school, even in football season and during summer break, especially during summer break. When I wasn't playing football, I ran track and field, 200 meters and 400 meter events and those relays. So along with weight trening, I ran sprint workouts. If you know anything about 200 and 400 meter sprint workouts, this is maximum lactic acid threshold workouts. Your legs are redlining, you're tripping over the finish line, you're walking like Bambi, struggling to use the pedals of my manual 1989 Toyota Corolla to drive home after practice. All this to say, my legs have always taken a beating since I was a kid. I think constantly pushing the limits of what my legs could handle during my prime hormonal flood as a teenage boy impacted the size of my legs. This is a picture of me at 17 years old, pretty developed legs. Next, trening age. I think starting young built a solid base for myself. There's a reason you don't see gymnasts over 25 years old in the Olympics, or why you don't see weightlifters at the Olympics who started lifting when they were 30 years old. Part of this is because it takes years, decades to build the strength and skill required for those sports. And the other part is because they've molded and shaped their bodies at a young age to fit this certain phenotype. Now I am in no way comparing myself to an Olympian, but I think that trening my legs with squats, jumps, and sprints in my preteen and teenage years helped me build a good base. All of this trening before I was even 25 years old. That is prime time for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone as a young man. I don't want this to discourage anyone who might be thinking, man, I'm 30 years old and I just started lifting weights. What a waste of time. If this is you and you are saying this to yourself, just think about how much of a beast you'll be when you're 60 years old. You'll think to yourself, thank God I started when I was in my 30s. And things didn't stop for me after high school or after I was 25. Once I really got into lifting, specifically powerlifting and bulking, the madness continued. Gaining 90 pounds of body weight in two years. Being addicted to squats. Literally looking forward to squat day more than anything else in life. And I've done it all. I've squatted once per week, four times per week. I've done singles, doubles, and triples in my program with over 500 pounds. I've done high rep programs, sets of 20 reps with up to 395 pounds and everything in between. Which brings me to my next topic, programming. I have always followed a strength-focused, squat-centric program. Squats have always been in my program and they've made up 80 to 90% of my lower body trening. The other 10 to 20% would be unilateral work like lunges and deadlift variations. I'm not counting any sort of running and I'm not counting just strictly deadlifts from the floor. If I had to average out every variable in my programming for the past 20 years, here's what I would guess. If you're not a numbers person, you can kind of just glaze over this. Average frequency of squat trening was 2 to 3 days per week. Average working sets of squats per workout, 3 to 5 sets. Average working sets of squats per week, 8 to 12 sets. Average reps in a working set, probably 5 to 10 reps. Average working sets of other knee flexion movements like lunges, and I'm not counting deadlifts here, 3 to 6 working sets per week. So if IMade a program averaging those averages, it would look like this. Squat 2.5 times per week, 4 working sets per workout. That's 10 working sets of squats per week. 7.5 reps average per set, that's 75 working reps per week. Plus 4.5 sets of lunges or split squats. Done consistently for like 20 years. That's a lot of squats over the span of 20 years. Now I want to add some of my own anecdote here, impart some of my knowledge. In my opinion, the best exercise for building godlike glutes, I'm talking Clydesdale hips. We're talking smuggling a couple of holiday hams in the back of your trousers. It is the low bar squat. There is something about puttinGHeavy weight on your back, bending over, sitting all the way down, and standing up, digging with that booty, driving with those hips, strening to open up those flexed hips under several hundred pounds that puts slabs of muscle on your backside. I can pretty confidently say that when I started pushing my low bar squat trening, glutes became monstrous. When I dialed back on the low bar squats, the glutes slimmed down from power bottom to some athletic glutes. Yes, I have been called that before. Let's talk about consistency. Since I started lifting weights, I have squatted every week of every year with the exception of maybe a handful of situations in which I was unable to squat. I got really sick with mono in high school and then I had to stay in my room for a week, didn't lift weights. I broke my collarbone in high school, couldn't put a bar on my back for a couple of weeks. I still did body weight squats and lunges. I had hernia surgery and I started doing body weight squats seven days later. I had a barbell on my back within 10 days. I didn't squat for one week. On my honeymoon, we were on a very small secluded island with nothing even resembling a gym. I couldn't even find a big rock. The longest period of time that I have been without trening my legs or without squatting was for about one year before going to boot camp. I ran like it was my job. I didn't lift weights. I did push-ups, pull-ups, and sit-ups, things like this. I did do P90X for resistance trening, so I didn't squat per se, but I followed the P90X leg day and the plyometrics day, so I think I used a dumbbell for resistance. I didn't want bulky legs and extra body weight. Now I didn't squat with a barbell until after boot camp and school of infantry when I was allowed to use the gym again on the weekends. So during this time leading up to boot camp and during boot camp, I didn't do any squatting and my lower body definitely shrunk down. I got down to a 29 inch waist on my trousers at six feet tall. So those are the only times that I did not squat in the past 20 years. Even when I was in the Marine Corps and we were out in the field and we didn't have access to a gym for a week, I would still put my buddy on my back like a fireman carry and do squats that way. I have always done squats. I've always lifted weights. I've always trened my legs. I never took breaks from lifting. I never got burnt out. I didn't try something else. I didn't have a change of heart. I didn't get distracted by something shinier. It sounds like a meme, but when C.T. Fletcher would say, man, here to grow, I think there's some validity in that sentiment. Muhammad Ali said, the will must be stronger than the skill. Have you ever loved something so much that you poured your heart and soul into it? You had invested time, energy, effort, and emotion into something simply because you cared about it that much. If you have, you can confidently say that whatever that thing was, that hobby, job, sport, or maybe that body part saw great results. This is how I've always felt about lifting weights with squats and big legs being at the forefront of that love. Having big legs was part of my identity. Nowadays, people call this spamming. Well, I spammed leg trening. I have never been through traumatic experiences. I've never had to traumatic experiences. I've never had to fight off demons in my head, but I still feel that the iron has always been my therapy. No matter what emotions I was feeling, good or bad, I always wanted to dump those emotions into a squat workout. The iron has always been a counselor for me. It leads me on the path of life. There have been countless times when my love for trening dictated my decisions outside of the gym. I've known many people who don't have a backbone. They just float away in the wind. They make bad choices. They cave into peer pressure, and they adopt self-destructive habits. The squat rack has always been my north star. It sounds silly and poetic, but it's the truth. I'm not trying to be funny. If I was to wrap this up, I can confidently say that what I've done has built my legs. Can I confidently say that you'll have the same results? Absolutely not. Can I confidently say that this is the best way to grow your legs? Absolutely not. This is simply my experience, and that's all I can share. Study sample size one. In order to confidently attribute my leg growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone to blank, I would have to have some sort of before and after leg comparison measurements, and I don't. I would need to have tested a variety of different trening approaches to identify trens. The only thing I can pretty confidently say is that I had big legs when I squatted, and smaller legs when I stopped squatting for bootcamp prep. I had big glutes when I would low bar squat a lot, smaller glutes when I stopped. I can't even confidently say that what I did was best for my leg growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, because what if I followed a different routine for 20 years? What if I did more leg extensions, leg curls, and other isolation exercises? Maybe my legs would be even bigger. Maybe I would have broke that 30-inch leg circumference barrier. So what can we gather from this video? I do think that genetics and my young trening age helped build my legs, but what are some helpful takeaways that you have control over? If I had to give an answer based on my experience, I would stress these key points. Frequency, consistency, effort, and a desire to improve. Thanks for watching, and always remember, tren ON TIME!