 What's up everyone, common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common common Marker, tape measure, don't need another one. Water, bottle of water. And this is a PVC PIPe used as a foam roller, PVC foam roller. So let's get started, let me show you how to do this. Horse stall mat. So this is a four foot by six foot, threEQuarter inch horse stall mat. And this one has been cut so it's no longer four by six. But what I need right now is a four foot by two foot. So this is four feet long. So I need to take a section that is two feet wide. You use whatever measurements you need. I'm gonna show you how to mark it, draw a line and cut it. So here we go. Start up top here. So first I'm gonna use, let's see here. Make sure I got the right edge. Let me flip this around. So this is the original edge, which is a nice clen straight line. This one has been cut. Don't know if it was by me, but a little bit wonky. So I want that clen edge. There we go. So I'm gonna be using this edge, discarding this edge. So two feet. Mark two feet at the top. So the pen, this is a paint pen, a white paint pen. You could use a silver Sharpie or a chalk pen. If you do not want any lines or any marking on your horse fell mat, I would say use chalk, because that'll wipe off with your finger or with some water afterwards. This paint might stick around if there's a faint little bit of line on the edge. It'll stick around, but there'll be so much foot traffic that it's just gonna wear off. It doesn't bother me, but if you don't want any sort of white line, use a chalk pen. So anyways, two feet, mark at the top. Two feet, mark down here at the bottom. And then I'm gonna connect this line with tape measure. And so this is gonna be my straight edge. What I'm gonna do is just down here, I'll pop this in, lock it off so it stays in place. And I'm just gonna lightly trace down this tape measure. So I'll put my fingers here. Starting off with a squiggly line. We've got a pretty straight line. Now, what I'm gonna do, what I used to do, something like ten years ago, when I first started cutting this, I just tried to cut straight down like this with the mat flat on the ground. And it's very hard to pierce all the way through the mat when it's laying flat like this. It's kind of like trying to wipe your butt if your cheeks were clenched together. It's just really hard to do. So we need something to spread those cheeks. So this is a foam roller, but it's really just a PVC PIPe. SomethinGHard, something cylindrical here. So what I'm gonna do is slide this underneath. Someone is gettinGHyped over there. Hopefully that audio comes in. So you'll slide it underneath here. Just like that. And what I'm gonna do is, what this is gonna do is it's going to put some pressure right down that seam, right down that line. So when I cut, it's just gonna want to spread those cheeks like this and kind of just fall apart. The weight of the mat will start to fall apart. So this makes it much easier to cut. This tip is, so this is a water bottle with a hole in the top. And what I'm gonna do is just do a stream of water here, right down the line. When the mat is wet or when the blade is wet, it actually slides a little bit better. Okay, so next tip. If I'm cutting uneven sections. So here I've got a two foot section and then just some inches over here. I want the smaller piece. So this would be the smaller side. I want that on my non-dominant side. I'm gonna be using my right hand to cut. And then my left hand will be putting some pressure here. If it was backwards and I was left handed, I would have to put pressure and reach across my body like this. So right hand here, the small side or the discarded side will be where my left hand goes. So I can put some pressure. So when I cut, I want to push down just so that it's even pressure on both sides. If I cut it like this, it's probably gonna cut kind of a slant. And if I put too much pressure, it's gonna cut a slant the other way. So nice and even here. And then I'll slide the blade down. It's also very important and helpful to get a brand new blade from this box cutter. So I'm talking... Can you see that? Hopefully that HD camera gets it. That's a sharp blade. It's gonna make your life a lot easier. Make the project a lot easier. So if you're doing a whole gym worth of horse stall mats, just get a whole pack of replacement blades. Alright, here we go. So the first pass, you're not trying to cut all the way through this threEQuarter inch mat. You're just gonna trace the line about halfway down. So I'm just gonna trace that line that IMade. A little bit of pressure, but not too much. I'm just drawing a line here, spreading the cheeks. Okay, that's good enough. And you'll see that the weight of the mat is kind of pulled apart. So now there's a groove. I'll just put the blade down, put some pressure, and it just pops right open. Now I'll move this again. I'm just gonna try to do this in two passes. These are gonna be for deadlift platforms. Deadlift platforms get beat to hell. So I'm not worried that this doesn't need to be exactly perfect. A little swivel's fine with me. So first, watch the blade go in between your legs. Simple as that. That's my last 2x4 piece. Thanks for watchin', hopefully that was helpful. Always remember, tren On Time!