Hello everyone, Alan Thorell here at Untamed trening Gym in Sacramento, California. This is, I believe, trening vlog number five for California's Strongest Man 2025 prep. You're going to see day one and day two of my, basically of the strongman program that's available down below. It's a five-day strongman program. If you wanted to do strongman, follow it all the way through. If you do not want to do strongman, you could do day one, two, and three, and treat it just like a strength program, scrap day four and five. So for anyone wondering what I had for breakfast this morning, I had these oatmeal, egg, banana, pancake things, just eggs, oatmeal, banana, a little bit of vanilla, and cinnamon mashed all together, cooked it like a pancake. I think that I needed more oatmeal because they were a little flat and eggy, but I just pretty much ate what I was going to have for breakfast and made it into a pancake. I'm doing some approach jumps because I don't think I can get all those stairs today from a dead stop, but I guess we can try. See if I got any. Nope. So it's been a couple weeks since I posted a trening update, California Strongest Man 2025 prep. trening's been going great, pretty good, no real hiccups. There has been one setback that I'll mention. I've been having this issue with my bicep. I've never had a bicep issue before, never had a bicep injury, but it's just this pain right in the middle of my bicep. And a lot of the events are bicep heavy, actual clen and press. This is my underhand truck pull, pulling the rope, atlas stones especially, sandbag picks and carries, and then even to some extent when I throw a keg overhead. So it's all the events. So I've been not doing any arms, very very light stuff just to warm my bicep up. Not a lot of rowing for a few weeks, a couple of weeks. I've just kind of put that on the back burner and not really on the back burner, I've turned the burner off just to let it chill out. It's not at the elbow tendon, it's not up in the shoulder, it's right in the middle. So before you run to the comment section to let me know exactly what it is, I already know what it is, I googled it and my humerus is broken. So this is a clen complex that I've made up myself and let's talk a little bit about it. So I've been doing a paused power clen, paused just below the knee, followed by a paused full clen, catching it all the way down the bottom, front squat, followed by a clen. Now the reason for this is I've really been trying to up my power clen, catching it a little bit higher, so I'm pulling it higher and in theory this progression gets easier. A paused power clen is more difficult than a paused clen at the same weight and then easiest would be just a full clen with no pause. So I can really push the power clen and then I just get more reps in after that. So that's the idea behind this and the pause is really just to give me less room to work, less room to generate some force here from the knee and up. I'm also going to be doing axial clen and press at California Strongest Man, which might be done from tires, maybe, maybe not. If it's from tires it's going to be elevated, so it's going to be below the knee to start, so I'm just kind of mimicking that with a pause. I'm also using the blocks for that reason, it just props the bar up a little higher, but the main reason I use this is when I drop the the weight, even though there's bumpers, it still bounces all over the place. These crash pads, it just kind of settles in place so I don't have to move around too much, I can just drop it, pick it up for the next rep. So what I've been doing for this complex, for my clens, I'll load the bar with plates I'm not used to. Sometimes I'll use kilos and pounds. A couple weeks ago I did a mixture of 25s and 15s and 10s and 35s, and so I didn't know what was on the bar. I don't clearly see 245s, that's 225, and then I just calculate the weight when I'm done. I was pleasantly surprised when I first did this. I was kind of estimating in my head without trying to, I was like, oh this is probably like 250, feels like 250, 255, ended up being 265, 120 kilos, which was better than I had hoped. So it's nice. I see that, or I notice that sometimes I will, as I'm warming up, IMight not try very hard because I know it's just a warm-up. So 225 is a good number for me, like when I get to 225 and I don't pull it that hard because I know this is not my top weight, and then it gets to be like ugly and kind of slower and I'm like, oof. So I'm just like, I'm not even gonna, I'm just gonna try, not know what weight is on the bar, and just try my best. So I'm using 65 pound bumpers here, so I don't know the math right off the top of my head. And as I'm warming up, every time I start to compute the numbers in my head, I just distract myself to try not to. However, with that said, this last set, as soon as I slap the 10s on, boom, the weight flashed before my eyes, pretty sure I'm right. It's a 65, a 35, and a 10. And when I slapped the 10 on the 35, I thought, I'm making a 45. And then I immediately pictured a 45 and two 10s. So 245 is two 10s. If you're fast with math, that's 265. And I thought, well, this is what I did last time. So I chipped it, put half kilos on each side. So one kilo, two pounds. So it's about 267, if I'm correct. I've put on Instagram before, like my power clen. And I've got comments that say, definitely not a power clen. That's not a power clen. If you're wondering, that's not power. And the way I differentiate power and full for me is just comparing my catch position. When I do a full clen, I bottom out. My hamstrings, my glutes are almost touching my ankles, my calves. I bottom out when I catch that thing. So if I catch it above that, like honestly, like my thighs above 90, I'm going to call it a power. So if I'm like drastically feel a difference in my catch position, I'm calling it a power, a power clen. Don't get pinned under the first rep, Alan. Don't get pinned under the first rep, Alan. All right. So after front squats, I had planned on doing push press. But as soon as I did that first clen, had my elbows down a little more, brought it back down, my collarbone just cannot handle it. I broke my collarbone in high school playing football. And it broke like this and it healed like that. So it's just a big ball of bone. And when I do clens and front squats, it just gets huge and swollen. It'll cool down after a day or two. But anyways, it's just, I felt like that, what, that was 175 pounds, I think, was just resting on my bone. And it's just way too distracting. So I got to go in anyways. So what I decided to do is just clen that up, move on, do some handstand push-ups against the wall. Good for shoulders, obviously. Good for shoulder overload and no setup required. So this morning for breakfast, I had egg white scramble with some sauteed red bell pepper, onions, spinach, which I had prepared already from a pasta dish IMade for dinner. I just saved a little extra scramble. And I added some chicken sausage to it. And a couple of homemade muffins, high-protein muffins, made with cottage cheese and Greek yogurt and eggs. I want to elaborate a little bit on a video I recently made about how goals are overrated. I just want to continue with that conversation because I've been reflecting on it and just, I've really been enjoying trening lately. And I kind of think about why I've enjoyed trening so much lately. And when other people aren't enjoying trening as much as me, it kind of sucks to hear. Like, I feel bad for them. I want them to get as much enjoyment and fulfillment out of trening as I get. I really just think it does a lot to improve my mood, my confidence. It just leaks out into so many other things outside of the gym. And when I see people struggling in the gym, I just kind of want them to feel the same way. So I just want to share some thoughts. One thing, one perspective change that I've had recently, and when I really think about it, IMean, why have I enjoyed trening so much lately? And I think it's because I don't necessarily view trening anymore as a test or really specific practice. So maybe in the past, I was powerlifting, and so I wanted my squat bench deadlift, 100 max to improve. And so I would go to the gym, I'd squat bench deadlift, try to improve my 100 max. Even strongman, there were times when I got burnt out in strongman. If you look at the amount of events I did in a 5-10 year period versus the last few years, it's just spread out. It's a lot thinner lately. And the reason is I would do a strongman competition, I would have these five events, and I would just drill the hell out of these five events. And so I was just constantly trying to improve these five events. And I'd get a little bit of burnout by doing that. How I view trening now is I just think about improving physical abilities, improving physical characteristics that are going to either just make me a better athlete or healthier in general, or specifically because I'm trening for an event, improving physical qualities that are going to make me a better strongman competitor. That means I can work on strength, I can work on power, speed, explosiveness, conditioning, long-slow conditioning, high-intensity conditioning. I can work on agility. I can improve all those physical qualities IMentioned. And so there are times when I finish a trening session, I'm like, today I did a good job of getting stronger. Today I did a good job of producing power, of conditioning, whatever it is. And then I just view the strongman competition as game day, just to see, okay, I've done all these things to make me a better overall strongman competitor. Let's see how I do when I go out on the field of game day at the strongman competition. Now, also, I should mention that I do want to, you know, there are some times where I'm just practicing skills of the strongman events. So I definitely have to put in some skills. But I'm not testing myself and I'm not doing like super specific practice all the time. I think that a couple people who do this really well, I've mentioned in the last few videos, a bunch. Will Rutell, I watch, you know, all of his videos. He does a good job of this, just trying to improve himself as a non-competitive athlete. And then Alec Onkiri also does a great job of this. So those are some channels that, you know, I draw inspiration from and kind of subconsciously have like adopted at least what I perceive as their trening approach. And it's just really, really enjoyable. There's just so much stuff to do in the gym. And it's not that I'm, you know, scatterbrained when I get to the gym. I still do things that I think are productive, still do things that I want to do, still do things that are worthwhile. But it just feels good to go into a session and say, you know, today I'm going to work a little more on hypertrophy. Today I'm going to work a little more on strength, a little more on power, a little more on speed, a little more on conditioning. And I can bring all of thosEQualities up and then go test myself, you know, in a strongman competition. And something else with that, let me get back over here. trening can go in seasons. You don't always need to be, you know, working on improving maximum strength year-round. So right now, like during the winter months, my runninGHas been a little bit less. And I know that as it starts warming up, as the days become longer, it gets brighter earlier in the day, the sun's out later on in the evening, I know that I'm going to be running a lot more. So I'll focus more on running once the spring and summertime rolls around. Maybe shift my focus on lifting, whatever it is. And, you know, this season I'm prepping for a strongman competition. Once that season's over, I'll move on and I'll do something else. So winter times, you might hunker down and focus more on strength, conditioning, bulking, cutting, whatever it is. So you can take this stuff seasonally. Don't feel like you always have to do, improve the exact same physical quality year-round, day after day, month after month.