 Hello everyone, my name is Alan Thrall and in this video I'm going to eat a vegan diet for a day. What's so important about being a vegetarian or vegan? Not because I am vegan? Not because I am vegan? Not because I plan on going vegan? Not because I plan on going vegan? But because it seems like the treny thing to do. I see a lot of videos titled I tried vegan for 24 hours. I eat vegan for a day. Yuck. And every time I watch one of those videos I just end up rolling my eyes because they make some of the worst food choices possible. I'm trying vegan for today. First up, a vegan vegan diet. Double bacon, double bacon, double bacon, double bacon, double bacon, western cheeseburger, or something like that. That's the equivalent of a vegan saying they wanted to try meat for the first time. First thing I'm going to try is microwaved dinosaur shaped chicken nuggets. There's a lot of beef in my stomach. Like, come on. There are plenty of other vegan food options. And I think that a lot of people associate vegan food with just meat substitutes. That section in the grocery store, the frozen food section labeled vegan food, that's what they associate vegan food with. When, I don't know, you can have like some rice, some carrots, stuff that we don't traditionally call vegan food, but can kind of fall into that vegan umbrella. And when I watch these videos, I think there are plenty of better options than what these guys are picking if you're not a culinary idiot. So I want to show you what a typical day would look like if I was to go vegan. And my goal here is to, number one, make food that tastes good. Number two, make food that doesn't have any off-putting texture. Just a normal palatable texture because that's one of the criticisms that's pretty common. When carnivores or omnivores try vegan for the first time, they go to the meat substitutes. The texture is off. I ain't trying to pull a prank on me. And that kind of spoils the whole meal for me. And then number three, probably just as important as taste. I'm going to try to get as much protein in this vegan diet day as I can because that's got to be the highest criticism within this fitness and weightlifting community. You can't get enough protein on a vegan diet. And I think there are plenty of good protein options, even on a vegan diet. Sure, admittedly, it's going to be harder to get enough protein in if I'm not eating meat every meal. But again, I think there are some options. And what I've done is I kind of wrote out just one typical day of how I would eat if I was vegan. I did not calculate the calories. I didn't calculate the grams of protein. I'll do that all at the end just to kind of see where everything falls. Let's get started. Meal number one, breakfast. I'm not going to make the rookie mistake of going straight for eggs, bacon, sausage replacement or substitute. I'm not even going to touch any of that stuff. Not going to touch this stuff. I'm just going to go with what I already love, oatmeal. Usually I eat oatmeal with eggs. I'll pair it with eggs. I'm going to swap the eggs out and go with a pea protein. So this is going to be overnight oats. This is actually the night before. I could eat this cold tomorrow morning, but I'll probably heat it up because I do love hot oatmeal. I like a hot breakfast. So let me show you what I'm putting inside this overnight oats. I'm using this glass container as my shaker because it's got a lid. So first up, some pea protein. Vegan pea protein. I'm going to do two scoops with my homemade funnel. This is vanilla flavored. Next up is some oatmeal. I'm going to go with a little more than a half cup, probably two thirds cup. I'm going to add some flaxseed meal. So this is just ground up flax seeds. I don't eat this stuff often, but I've got it sitting around. I usually use it for baked goods, but flax seeds are a good source of omega-3s. It's got a little bit of protein in it. I'm going to put a couple of spoonfuls inside of this. A little bit of cinnamon. Almond milk. I'm going to fill it up just enough to cover this and then I'll shake it up. A spoonful of peanut butter. One banana. And some blueberries. There we go. That's breakfast. Overnight oats. I could drink this cold tomorrow morning, but I'll probably put it on the stovetop and heat it up. If it's too thick, I'll add a little bit more almond breeze. Almond milk. There we go. That's breakfast. That is quite a bowl of oatmeal. Outstanding. Meal number one. I can eat that every day. All right. Vegan meal number two, which is actually a snack. Post-workout. Peanut butter and jelly. IMean, who doesn't love a good peanut butter and jelly? An American classic. Who would have thunk it? It's vegan. I guess I'm missing the glass of milk, but anyways. Whole wheat bread. Peanut butter. Strawberry jelly. And an apple. Okay. It's time for lunch. I am going to do a vegan burger, but it's not going to be impossible meat. That's what's called beyond meat. It's not going to be any meat. It's not going to be tofu. No meat substitutes. It's the ultimate falafel burger, which no soy ingredients, no dairy ingredients. Always vegan. It's made primarily of garbanzo beans. And then onion, garlic, greens, et cetera. It's got pea protein concentrate also, which gives it the added protein. And I'm going to do both these patties. Make a double burger because I'm a man. So it'll be 24 grams of protein just in the patties alone. And I got these vegan buns. Because I'm not going to be using cheese and mayonnaise, which usually makes a burger along with the grease, makes a burger juicy. I'm going to be making my own thing with hummus and avocado. In fact, that's a trick I use. Sometimes I won't use, a lot of times I won't use mayonnaise on my deli sandwich, on my turkey sandwich, I'll just put hummus, add some avocado, and that kind of gives it a creamy texture. So I'm going to be making some sort of spread just off the top of my head. Hopefully it goes well. I'm going to be adding edamame to that also. Anyways, let's get started. They are colorful. I guess that's what you get when they're made of garbanzo beans. I'm just going to put this in some olive oil, I guess. Does it say anything special? 10 to 15 minutes. Good Lord, who has that time? All right, while that cooks, I'm going to make this high-protein schmear that IMentioned. Hummus, I always have hummus in my fridge, so this is nothing new. A couple spoonfuls. Two. Half an avocado. And then my protein secret, I knew I was going to eat edamame today, I just didn't know how. I'm going to put this in there and then put it on my burger. This is three-quarters cup of edamame, and it's like 10 grams of protein. It's just frozen edamame that IMicrowaved. There we go. Add a little olive oil. Tiny bit of salt. A little pepper. Bang! All right, let me show you what we're working with. There you go. That either looks disgusting to you or it looks delicious. Looks like guacamole to me. Guacamole on a burger, I'll take it. Let's assemble. BUN. Protein spread. One burger. Patty down. A little more of this. Some more here. I'm not going to waste this. Slice a tomato here. Pickles. Two. Another burger. This is like probably overkill, but oh well. I'm going to flip this because I actually did it backwards. Sprouts. For a little crunch, you can do lettuce, whatever, but I like sprouts on my sandwich. I'm going to go with some sprouts on the burger. There we go. If that doesn't scream California, I don't know what does. And instead of french fries, I'm going to have some carrots. I don't know how I'm going to do this, but... IMean, this is so good. IMean, it doesn't compare with like big greasy cheeseburger, but that's not what I'm going for. I don't want to eat a big greasy cheeseburger on a Monday afternoon. This tastes healthy. I can see this being in some California vegan restaurant for like 22 bucks. Bon appétit. Skirt. All right, fam. I'm making this dinner in the afternoon because I'm going to be at the gym late. So it's going to be hell with vegetables and some red sauce. And the protein source is going to be this high-protein pasta. For real, for real, this stuff is on fleek. No beyond me here because that stuff low-key kind of sus. No shade, though. The mushrooms in here are going to slap. They add this meaty umami taste. Can't wait to eat it. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Dead ass. Okay, quiet on the set. I'm recording a YouTube video. Okay, Bungie. Come tell us what we got here. Okay. Okay. What is this? Onions. Onions first. What is this? Cheese. No, not cheese. Acorn squash. Acorn squash. And what are these? Cucumbers. Close. Zucchini squash. What are these? Mushrooms. Mushrooms. Very good. And how about this stuff? More mushrooms. No, garlic. Perfect. I can see my hand. Yep. Mix that up. Try not to spill it. A little salt. What are you making Daddy? It's kind of like ratatouille. Vegetable pasta. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Because it's always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always always Take a scoop here. Alright, I pulled the pasta early because it seemed like it was already cooked with a few minutes left. And if I would have let it cook the full time, I think it would have turned into mush. So, I'm just putting it in here. This is not fine Italian cooking. There we go. Dinner is served. Just finished dinner. It was delicious. Put a little red pepper flake on the pasta. Nice, hearty, warm meal. Got to use this opportunity as an excuse to eat some vegan ice cream. This is chocolate non-dairy frozen dessert made with coconut milk. This is really, really good. Dang. Oh, this is great. I've had soy milk ice cream, oat milk ice cream. No thanks. I would rather just skip ice cream. But this must be very good. This is Trader Joe's. Benji! What? Come try this. Daddy, can I take a couple bites? Pretty good, huh? You could definitely bulk on a vegan diet. IManaged to get 3580, I think is the total count. Calories. If I was just to add another couple bananas, more scoops of protein, more scoops of peanut butter, could have easily got 4,500 calories. So you could definitely bulk on a vegan diet. Let me figure out the actual numbers. Stay right here. 135 grams of fat. Probably a lot of monounsaturated, polyunsaturated fat. Not a ton of saturated fat except from the peanut butter. 488 grams of carbs. That is a lot of carbs. 125 grams of protein. And 67 grams of fiber. Daily recommended fiber intake is 25 to 30 grams. According to Google, I went ahead and doubled that. I Googled how much daily protein should I be eating as an active adult. Bye-bye. I said 1.2 to 1.7 grams of protein per kilo body weight. I'm 91 kilos. So that was, I think the numbers were like 109 grams to 155 grams. It was recommended. And I got like 125 grams of protein. Pretty good. On vegan diet. Another takeaway is, just because a diet sounds healthy, a vegan diet or a vegetarian diet, low carb diet, whatever it is, doesn't necessarily mean it's going to help you with weight loss, if that's your goal. Because if a normal sedentary person wanted to do a vegan diet and they followed what I just ate and they ate 3,500, you know, close to 4,000 calories a day, they would probably not lose weight. Just because it's healthy, it doesn't necessarily mean that it will actually cause weight loss. Whoops. That's with any diet. You can overeat on vegan diet, vegetarian diet, carnivore diet, low carb diet. Low fat diet. If you're eating more calories and you're burning, you're going to gain some weight. Thanks for watching and always remember, TRE NON TIME!