Hey everyone, back with another instructional video, how to use another piece of equipment here at Untamed Strength Gym in Sacramento, California today. It is the BackAttack, the Sorenix BackAttack. This is like a standing back extension or a good morning machine. So, it's pretty simple to use. There are lots of moving parts it looks like, but I'm gonna show you how to use it. First, I'll show you how to use it, what it looks like, and then talk about some adjustments. So, I'm gonna stand in here. Plates go here, I go down, and I stand up. I go down, and I stand up. So, that's what it looks like if you're just wanting to see how this machine is used. Down here, the foot plate can be pulled, the foot plate can be raised up and down, just depending on how tall you are or how short you are. This can be raised up for someone who's under five feet tall, but it can also be dropped down. This can be raised up. The first time I saw this machine, actually, was Brian Shaw using it in an old YouTube video. So, Brian Shaw's like six foot, 19 inches tall or whatever. And so, he fits in this machine. So, the variability in height can be adjusted for. So, this goes up and down. I pretty much just keep it down at the bottom. And then, this pad here is raised up and down. So, you will move this pad up and down based off of your height, wherever you want the pad to be. So, I like to put it somewhere comfortably on the front of the thighs, high on the thighs here. I don't want it down by my knees and I don't want it up on my stomach because you have to pivot at your hips and you don't want the pad so high that you can't pivot around this. This thing does pivot up and down, so it's pretty comfortable when you're using it. This pad back here where my heels are, this goes front to back. So, I like to keep it pretty far forward so that I can stand with the back of my ankles against the pad and then the front of my thighs against this pad. This piece here goes up and down, this back pad. You can place it as high or as low as you like. So, it can go down here, it can go up here. The higher it is, I think the more difficult it is. It makes a longer moment arm from this point. So, if I had it on my mid-back or my low-back, I could probably load up a lot of weight. If I put this up really high on my traps or really high on the back of my neck, it can kind of turn into a neck exercise. But this would be more difficult. I like it right around maybe a low-bar squat position on my back. This is where you load plates. And I'll grab a plate just to show. So, plates go here. You'll notice there's a band here. This is not part of the machine. I added this here, so it's got multiple band pegs to make this more difficult. The reason the band peg is on here, even when it's empty, is because there is no tension at the very top. So, if you have a little bit of weight, let's say I have a 45-pound plate, that resistance is felt probably 3 quarters of the way up and then at the top, it almost just flies back and it becomes weightless and it can fly off your back. So, I like to add a band so there's always tension on it. Even at the top, there's a little bit of tension. You could add more bands to make it more difficult at the top. This is just to kind of offset the zero balance at the top. So, once this plate is on, I'm ready to use it. So, I'll step in here, everything's set up for me. Hips go on the pad, good position on my back. Make sure I don't catch this mic. What you'll do is you'll push it back or unrack the weight here. So, I'm gonna push back. There's a handle right here. I'm gonna pull that pin. John, you can do one little close-up of that pin. So, this is how I unlock it. I stand up, pull, and now I'm ready to move. So, I like to put my hands at the sides, maybe behind, whatever you like. You'll go down, down, down, down. Stand up. So, the tension at the bottom is not a whole lot. It is a lot of tension at the top. So, it's really stressful on the upper hamstrings and the glutes. So, what I like to do is keeping my thighs on the pad, keeping my heels against that pad, I try to bring my shoulders really far forward. So, I'm trying to bring my shoulders far forward, keeping my thighs on the pad. I'll stand up, push my hips through the pad, squeeze your glutes at the top, okay? I don't wanna push my butt back like maybe I was doing a Romanian deadlift. I don't wanna push my butt back and become disconnected from this pad here. So, I'm here, I'm not even touching the pad at this point, and then I stand up. So, I go here, not touching the pad, back up. Don't like to use it like that. Keep your hips forward, reach the shoulders forward, and then up, just like that. When you're done, you'll push this in, and that racks the weight. If you're able to get a piece of equipment like this in your gym, you really set yourself apart from all other gyms in the area, and especially commercial gyms, because this is really, this, the inverse leg curl, they're really specialized piece of equipment, and when members see stuff like this, I've had members sign up just for aromasingle piece of equipment that I have. This is the Sorenix Back Attack. I didn't buy it new. It's ridiculously expensive. I found it secondhand for a really good price. So, that's it. Sorenix Back Attack. There you go. Thanks for watching. Trinidad!