 кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп кноп since March 2013 when I separated from the Marine Corps. And I knew that at some point I was going to cut it, and I wanted to donate it when I do cut it. And I wanted to get my hair as long as I could. Well, it's been at this same length for probably three or four years, honestly. I think it just takes a beating every day, and it just breaks off, and it doesn't grow any longer than this. So that and now that I have a three-month-old baby at the house, she's always pulling on my beard and my hair, and it's getting caught in her hands and her armpit and her elbows. And I have a three-year-old son at the house, and he's at the stage where he wants to always wrestle. He wants to jump on my back. He wants a piggyback ride. He wants to ride on my shoulders. And my hair is taking a beating. It just gets ripped out and pulled all the time. He's actually just learninGHow to swim on his own, so I'm kind of in the pool spottinGHim, and my wet hair just gets tangled in his hands and his feet. It's just every single day. It seems like it's getting ripped out. So the time has come. I am going to cut it off. Honestly, I'll probably just grow it right back. But I'm donating it. It was in the Marine Corps, and then I got out in 2013, and I haven't had a haircut since. Really? I love it. I haven't done anything good. I haven't trimmed it or anything. Have you ever colored it? Nope. Okay. No. But I know. Yep. IMean, it feels pretty healthy. Nine years since you colored it? Yep. All right. I don't want to walk the next thing. Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Hi, man. What's happening? I don't know. People just get kind of scared. A little short. I'm sure. Your hair's healthy. I'll still take it. Okay. Cool. I think you're fine. Cool. Even the shorter pieces will be okay. Daddy, you like a mohawk. You got a mohawk? No hot day. Not yet. Ready? Yep. Okay. Perfect. There you are. It's staging like this. It's staging like this. Do you want to hold one of dad's hairs? No? No. We should just leave the sides, huh? Yeah, we should. We should just leave the sides. You didn't even get all sassy with it. You don't even know what's going on. Still got one curl. Yeah, you got one curl left. Everything's okay. Okay, we'll just go above the floor. I don't know how big the hookers go. Okay. I got this. Okay, cool. I'll let you do one. No. No? No. I don't know if anyone's taking beard donations. I know, I thought about that. I'm not sure. It'll leave a very Irishy for you. Yeah. Here you go. Yeah, that looks very Amish. Right? Now get your face. I need someone to hide. I'm just going to take a little... Yeah, you do you, whatever you guys are going to do. You want to take a photo with the clown John? Yeah. I'm going to get a shot here. I'm going to steal one when you guys are done and I'll be free. Look, feel my neck. I'm sorry. There it is. I've had this since 2013. Some old hair. So like IMentioned earlier, I'm donating all this hair to an organization called Wigs for Kids. And you can donate as well. You don't have to donate your hair, but I'm starting a fundraiser to try to raise as much money as I can for this organization to donate to them. They make and donate these real hair wigs to kids in need. And it cost them $1,800 to make one wig. So if you could, it would mean a lot to me. It would mean a lot to them. It would mean a lot to a kid to donate. I'll include the link to that donation or that fundraiser down in the description area. I appreciate it. Thanks for watchin'. And always remember. tren on, tren on team. tren on team.