The time has come. It's time for you to move out of your parents' house. It's time for you to get a job. It's time you learn how to start cooking food for yourself. So what I did was turn the camera on, recorded myself for a week making some meals. This video is a bit random. It's a bit jumbled, so I'm trying to kind of give you a preview of what's to come in this little intro. All of these meals that IMade are easy to make. You don't have to be a culinary expert. You don't need any fancy equipment. They store well as leftovers for meal prep. They taste good. They're healthy, etc. etc. Today I'm going to cook a whole chicken and a half a turkey. This is half a turkey on the bone and a whole chicken. The less processed meat is, the less expensive it will be. The more processed meat is, the more expensive it's going to be. So boneless, skinless chicken breasts would be most expensive because they're most processed. The skin and the bone is removed. A bone-in, skin-on chicken thigh is going to be less expensive because it is less processed. And then a whole chicken will be least expensive. That's one reason why I like to buy whole chicken and as much turkey as I can here. I realize that that is the price tag difference, just the price you're seeing on the meat. A pack of boneless, skinless chicken thighs yields 100% meat. You're going to use all of that meat. This is less expensive, but this also yields less meat because there's bone and there's skin that's included in that pound. This was $1.99 a pound and at the same grocery store the boneless, skinless chicken breast was $7.99 a pound. So to know if it's actually, how much cheaper it actually is, I'd have to cut up all the meat on this whole chicken, weigh it, and compare it against the price of the boneless, skinless chicken breast, which I'm not going to do. But that's one reason I buy this whole. I also like to buy it because it tastes a little bit better when the meat's cooked on the whole bird and stays a little more moist and it's just honestly easier. So for meal prep, cooking these meals, I'm going to be using this turkey and this chicken for lunches and even some dinners. They're going to be included in some dishes. Now meal prep should be easy. This is very easy. It doesn't need to be pretty. This is not going to be the centerpiece of a Thanksgiving dinner. I'm just going to put a little bit of seasoning on it, put it in the oven. You don't have to have any certain, you don't need an air fryer or a grill or any special smoker. If you have any of that stuff, great. This would taste better rotisserie style on my Kamado Joe smoker, but I'm just going to put it in the oven because that's what most of you have. So to start, I removed the little floppy bit of skin that was on the turkey breast. It was kind of just in the way. Got rid of it. I wouldn't get rid of the skin if this was Thanksgiving dinner, but the chicken left it as is. So what I'm going to do is just right here, I'm going to get the counter dirty too. Just a little bit of olive oil. You really don't even need to do this. I just like to put a little bit of oil on so that the seasoning can stick a bit better. Just like this here. You just need salt and pepper, which is what I usually use. Today I'm going to use this everyday seasoning grinder. It is salt, black pepper, mustard seeds, coriander, dried onion, dried garlic, paprika, red chili pepper flakes. There you go. And that is good enough. What I'm going to do is continue making a mess here. This is a clen counter. It was a clen counter. I'm not even going to eat the skin, so I don't really care about making it too even. So that's it. You don't need to do anything fancy with the chicken. I'm not going to get any twine and tie this up. You can get fancy if you want. Tuck these under. Do a little Brazilian jiu-jitsu on this thing. So I'm going to put this in the oven at 350 degrees. I'm going to let it go for about an hour, and then I'm going to check the internal temperature of each of these. Once they're about 150, I'm going to probably get ready to pull up. You don't need to wait until it's 165. If it happens to get there, cool, but you don't need to wait until it's 165. That's just the FDA trying to cover their butt by putting the temperature even higher than it needs to be. But if these hang out at 155 for like five or ten minutes, they're good to go. You don't have to leave it any longer to get to 165. You're just going to dry it out. Okay. Chicken's done. Turkey's done. Chicken took about an hour and 30 minutes. Turkey about an hour and 40 minutes. So I'm going to slice this up quickly, and I'm going to show you how. I would let this rest a little bit longer, but I've got to go. So I'm going to do a slice right down the middle here on one side of the bone. Open it up. One breast there. Here we are. What I'm going to do now is, you can see, I don't know if the camera picks this up, the grain of the chicken moves this way. So I don't want to slice it that way. I want to slice it against the grain. So what I'm going to do is actually do one slice with the grain. The rest will go against. So all right, and here we go. What is that? That's chicken and turkey, my friend. So there we go. Meal prepped. I'll show you what I'll do with all this. This is all turkey, chicken, just kind of the dark meat chopped up. There we go. I'm going to make a meal that I often eat for lunch. I enjoy it. You might not enjoy it. It is a healthy meal. So if you have the palate of a four-year-old and you're a bit finicky about what you eat, you might not like it. It is pearl couscous and chicken with some vegetables. So I was inspired by this meal from a meal, a prepared meal in the Trader Joe's section. Whenever my family and I go grocery shopping at Trader Joe's, I'll usually pick one up, one or two up. They're easy and convenient. But after looking at the ingredients in the pearl couscous and chicken, very straightforward, simple ingredients, I thought I'll just make it myself. So I'm going to make it and show you guys how to actually do it. It's also great for storing as meal prep or leftovers because it holds really well. So I'm going to cook the pearl couscous first, just according to directions on the back here. One and a half cups of water, a little bit of olive oil, a little bit of salt. Bring that to a boil. One cup. While the couscous is cooking, what I've got here is the chicken. There's going to be mint, some green onions, some lemon juice, garlic, red bell pepper, some cherry tomatoes and arugula. I love arugula. I love the peppery taste of it. So this is all going to get chopped up as well as some olive oil. This is all going to get chopped up, mixed together in sort of a dressing that I'll spoon onto the couscous whenever I have a meal. And then I'll add the tomatoes and the arugula on top and the chicken as well. Okay, so I'm going to put this in a glass Tupperware so that it can store in the fridge. And you know what? I forgot garbanzo beans right here behind me. I'm also putting garbanzo beans in this thing. I'm not taking any measurements. I just kind of wing it just to make a dressing. So olive oil. Maybe that's enough. Who knows? None of this needs to be cooked either. Throw this in. The red bell pepper. The mint. The green onion. Some garlic. You could use fresh garlic, but I use so much garlic that I just buy it in this jar. It's just garlic and water. Couscous is done. This thing's not focusing, so I apologize. A little bit more olive oil. Another bottle on standby. A little bit of salt. Pepper. Almost looks like a pico de gallo. Garbanzo beans. This can has like 24 grams of protein, so if you like your plant protein, garbanzo beans. So that's it, unless I forgot something. So what I'm going to do is store this in the fridge. I'll take a serving, put it in a bowl, put a little bit of... Then let me actually stop talking and I'll just show you what it looks like. All right, so I'm going to assemble it right now and show you what it looks like. The couscous will be stored in the fridge. This will be stored in the fridge separate. And what I like to do is serve it cold, eat it cold, the chicken's cold as well. I put the couscous in, put some of this into the couscous and mix it around. That makes it taste a little more homemade and fresh. You could just mix this in with the couscous, store in the fridge, but I prefer to keep it separated. Gotta keep them separated. So I don't want to wait for this to cool down. I'm just going to eat it hot. Couscous will go here. And I didn't make very much couscous. I like to make couscous and rice frequently rather than saving five days worth of white rice. I just like fresh rice, so the rice cooker is almost always going. And the couscous, this is a couple meals, but once it's out, I'll just make some more. There we go. One blop. Two. Two and a half. There we go. I'm going to take this arugula. Right there. Take some of these cherry tomatoes. And some of this chicken. You can use the chicken or the turkey. I'm going to use this chicken. There we go. Freaking gorgeous. That's it. Let's see. This doesn't seem to want to focus. That's it. That's my lunch. Beautiful. I would pay $25 at a restaurant for this and make it at home. Not that hard. This meal is so incredibly easy. It is definitely a novice meal. So chicken, it's a chicken stir fry. Chicken, some white rice. I'm not going to show you how to make the white rice. You can figure that out. Get yourself a rice cooker if you don't have one. You could do it on a stovetop. It's a little more difficult because you have to monitor temperature and things like that. But rice cooker is going every other day for me, it seems like. So I'm going to cook some white rice in the rice cooker with the chicken. And then you can get fresh vegetables or you can just get frozen vegetables. The nice thing about frozen vegetables is you don't have to worry about them going bad. They can stay in the freezer for a while. This is a stir fry vegetable pack. Snap peas, broccoli, baby corn, green beans, water chestnuts, red bell peppers, carrots, and mushrooms. There is a teriyaki sauce in here, a packet. Sometimes I don't even use it. Maybe I'll use a little bit. But oftentimes I'll just put my own soy sauce or coconut aminos on it. It is a better version of chicken, white rice, and broccoli. I'll show you what that looks like once it's cooked. Here it is. Not a whole lot of rice in here. It's all at the bottom. Chicken stir fry, white rice. It doesn't get much easier than this. I'm going to make a turkey sandwich. I do have a turkey enchilada recipe that IMade a year or so ago after Thanksgiving when I had some leftover turkey. So you can certainly do that. I'm not going to include it in this video. I'll link it in the recipe if you want to check out more of this. But let's go. Turkey sandwich. Okay, bread, turkey, arugula, pickles, tomato, avocado, hummus. So a little trick that I use, if you don't want to use mayonnaise, mustard, I do like mustard, but if you don't want to use mayonnaise, try usinGHummus. I did toast the bread just a little bit. And unfortunately, it's the tiniest bread I've ever seen. So small sandwich today. So hummus instead of mayonnaise. And then instead of cheese, I'm going to use avocado. Nice creamy sandwich. My wife laughs every time I do this because I'm so extra. Put a little fresh cracked pepper on that sandwich, boy. And we're going to go in this turkey right here. Again, I'm not getting much surface area with these pieces of bread, but I'll make it do. Some pickles. I'm going to put a little bit of that in there. I'm not getting much surface area with these pieces of bread, but I'll make it do. Some pickles. Slice up this tomato. Like this. Am I even going to be able to eat this? Put some of that arugula up here. There we go. There's your sandwich. Whoa. There's a turkey sandwich. Oh, so good. A little turkey drop in there. You know what goes really good with a turkey sandwich? Chips? No. Carrots. Instead of chips. You get a crunch just like chips. That's even better than chips. No, it's not. That's a lie. This is not better than chips. That's it for lunch. I am going to show you how to make the best roasted potatoes you have ever had. That's right. Not just the best roasted potatoes you've ever made, the best you've ever had. So I'm just going to be, it's very simple, very easy. These are baby Dutch yellow, just gold, gold potatoes. You could also do baby red potatoes, any small potatoes like this. A little olive oil and some seasoning. This could be just salt and pepper, salt, pepper, garlic powder, a little bit of salt, pepper, garlic powder, a little bit of salt, pepper, garlic powder. You can use fresh garlic. You can use barbecue seasoning, whatever you want. I'm using this. And then I'm going to be using my cast iron pan. This is going to give you the best results. It's going to give you the best crisp sear on those potatoes. But if you don't have a cast iron pan, you can just use a roasting pan. So what I'm going to do is get a knife. I'm going to cut each of these in half. If they're sprouting any buds, I'll cut those off. These are pretty big. If they're really big, I'll cut them into three. So one and then cut it like this. Just so they're somewhat similar shape. Olive oil. Coating seasoning. It is that easy. Now, here's the secret. You're going to put your pan, whether it's cast iron or roasting pan, you're going to put this in the oven while the oven preheats so that when I dump these on there, they're going to sizzle hot, like a hot pan. I'm going to go put this in the smoker and let it heat up as the smoker heats up. You can do this in the oven, 425 to 450 degrees. Check it at about 20 minutes. There should be a nice crisp on the potatoes. And they should be tender when you pierce a fork through it. You can do this, like I said, in the oven. I'm doing it outside in the Kamado Joe because it's 100 degrees outside. So I'm going to keep the heat outside. I really don't want to turn on my oven to 450 degrees in the air conditioned house. All right, Kamado Joe's around 450. Pan is hot. Pan is hot. Then I put all these potatoes face down so they get a little better sear, more surface area. Okay, I'm going to give these about 20 minutes and then I'll check on them. Okay, I'm going to make somEQuick, easy meatballs. This stores as meal prep way better than just ground meat. It also tastes better. Ground meat tends to dry out if it's left in the fridge. This won't dry out. You can get kind of creative with that. I'll talk about it in a minute. But we've got a pound of ground beef, pound of ground turkey. And then I'm just going to wing this. So here, a handful of chopped fresh parsley that I already chopped here. You don't have to add that if you don't want to, I guess. This is like half a cup, half of a small yellow onion, chopped up, minced up, pulverized. My wife does not like big chunks of onion in the meatballs. So I try to chop them up. So they're undetectable. And then breadcrumbs. That looks pretty good. I'll get a little more. One egg. Some salt. I've got two pounds of meat here, so quite a few turns of this salt grinder. Pepper. Some garlic. Some garlic. You could use garlic powder or fresh garlic. And Italian seasoning. So with these meatballs, you can make spaghetti and meatballs. Just boil some pasta with some red sauce. Serve these meatballs with it. We've done meatball subs. You just put it on a loaf of bread with a side salad. Or you can just have it with potatoes like we're having tonight. But I've done a barbecued meatball before where you just put some barbecue seasoning in it. Once they're about done, you put a little barbecue sauce on it. That's also great. These are more Italian meatballs. So I'm going to go with some Italian seasoning. There we go. Tablespoon, I'd say. And some Parmesan cheese. You don't have to use Parmesan cheese. You could just use a bag of shredded cheese or cheddar cheese. It does not matter. You don't even have to use cheese. The egg and the breadcrumb are going to hold these meatballs together. Cheese just makes a little extra flavor. I'm going to call that good enough. I'm going to use the two best utensils I have in the kitchen. My hands. You could use all beef. You could use all turkey. You could use beef and pork, turkey and pork. You could use ground chicken. This is your kitchen. You do whatever you want. All right, there's our loaf of meat that I'm about to roll up into balls. There you go. Meal prep. I'll try to make them somewhat similar size, but not a huge deal. That looks pretty good. I'm going to call an audible and actually put these meatballs on with the potatoes. This is much hotter than I would like the meatballs, but sometimes you just got to make do with what you got. So you can set them directly on the grill. Will it fit? That's what she said. Well, look at that. Beautiful. Okay. I'll check back in 20 minutes. Check these potatoes. Looking pretty good. I'd say these are pretty good. Meatballs are good and they cooked quick. Oh, we're plenty, plenty good. Everything's done. There's that perfect potato. I promise. I'm gonna take a bite. Oh, so good. Here's the prepped meatballs. And potatoes. All right, I'm going to try this meatball. Oh, it's so good. Yeah, you want a bite? A little bit hot, blowing it. What do you think? Good? Two thumbs up. Nice. Let's go eat then.