 We are on a road trip from Sacramento to Los Angeles for the LA Fit Expo two-day strongman competition. And what are we doing tomorrow, Benji? We're going to Universal Studios. Taking good progress so far. Okay kids, time for some road trip trivia. Who is the only man to have five world's strongest man titles? The answer is Mari's World Strongest Man titles. Who is Pujanowski? Come on, come on, that was an easy one. In the year 1998, World's Strongest Man featured a Stone Carry in the shape of a Continent? What Continent? What Continent was it? Evelyn? Circle close, Africa. Circle close, Africa. Currently in a women's restroom of a rest area, because they don't have diaper changing stations in the men's room. Come on. Ent Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee No sliding on the implement. I think the rule says we're not supposed to. All right, event number one, day one. Frame carry, 550 pounds. Frame is going down about 60, 70 feet. Fastest time wins. So I expect a lot of great things out. Let me know when you're ready. Judges, you ready? Competitors, set, go! 60 seconds, here we go. Big movement. Fastest time. Fastest time. And he's in. Completely out of control the entire time. First event done, friend carry. I got 10 point something seconds, which I'm guessing is right around the middle, maybe towards the end of the pack. None of the lightweights dropped in. The times were like 8 seconds, and a bunch of 8s, 9s, 10s. It felt really good. My grip felt solid. Didn't feel like I was going to drop it at any point. I feel like I could have honestly turned around and came back. Feet just weren't moving fast enough. John critiqued that my feet looked pretty wide. But anyways, name and name of the speed. Didn't have it. So on to the log press next. All right, next event, log clen press. One clen press away. So the entry form said lightweights, we're using 200 pounds. But apparently we're using 240 pounds. So let that be a lesson. Be prepared for anything. Alan is the operator and head trader on the mundane strength. Up to the staff. Good. Here we go, Mike. Ready? Headed to set. Good. One hand on the ball. Quick clen. Follow the set. Good. Everything's in line. One. One. Two. Got it. There you go. Close it down. Bring it back down to chest. Get out of control. That brings up lean. Now we're in the entry. And get into that. One more time. 30 seconds now. Go, Alan. Go, brother. You got it. 20 minutes on the clock. Get this free. And now you've got 15 seconds to go. Final moment. Don't change. Three. Two. One. 10. Unable. So I did it with three, right? Okay. Like I said, the entry form. He was posted as 200 pounds. But there was a change for whatever reason. Something was wrong. It was 240 pounds. And I like the unknown or the mystery involved in strongman. And sometimes that includes weight change or rule change. So 240. GoT3 reps. I think three of us tied with three reps. And a couple of the guys ran away. Much higher reps than that. It was hard. It definitely was a challenge. I haven't done over 200 pounds of trening in a long time on the clock. So it was a challenge just to see where I'm at. Anyways, three reps is what I finished with. All right. Next event is wagon wheel deadlift. And it's a tricky one to strategize. So you'll pick a weight. Really whatever weight you want. You'll do as many reps as you can with it. It's called Trump Rules. So anyone who does heavier than you, no matter how many reps they do, they win. So you might pick 500 pounds and do 20 reps with it. Someone does 540 pounds for one rep, they beat you. So it's tough to strategize where you want to go, where you want to jump in. So once everyone's done their first attempt, you have a second attempt if you want to go heavier. But by taking the second attempt, you forego your previous attempt. So if you miss a heavier attempt, you get zero. So it's kind of a double jeopardy. Anyways, we'll see where we're at. And then challenge the top spot, double jeopardy. Now I'm ready. Time for starts now. Call it aT3. They got the one. It's stopping there. Okay, day number two. So yesterday, day one, I finished with a 583 deadlift. Can't be mad about it because the guys who got ahead of me were pretty far ahead of me. So there's nothing I really could have done. Honestly, not too happy about how day one went. But can't dwell on it right now. I'll cry later on at the end of the competition. We got two events today. Sandbag top, sandbag over bar, and then a natural stone to shoulder. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. You guys ready? You can handle it. Here we go. Ten, set, go. First one, up, forward. Second one. Lean is low. Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee I'm on the last event, so the sandbag toss ended up going well. IMissed the second bag, that kind of threw me off. And then I was really struggling with the last bag, took me four attempts. I finally got it over within a couple seconds to spare. I ended up being one of the only two guys to get the last bag, so I ended up getting second in that event, which is pretty good. We're doing stone to shoulder now, natural stone to shoulder. You can pick a stone up, bring it to your shoulder, put it back down as many reps as you can. Trump rules, so you get to pick your own weight. If someone picks a heavier stone and they do one rep, they beat you no matter how many reps you've done with a lighter stone. All right, we're accommodating that one. 321 pounds stone, now on for all. Owner operator of one tank strength. Hands on and good. Coach, you ready? Crowd, you ready? Here we go. Defendants are set, go. Good, loud, very good. Now he's gonna bend, sit right, notice that right elbow, nice and high. Good. Now he's going to get. Notice that right elbow nice and high. He's going to start rotating the stone across his body. Just falling at 20 seconds. 30 seconds. Hold it tight. 15 seconds. Come on. Let's go. Okay. That's a wrap. LA Fit Expo 2023 Oudhaugen Strength Challenge, Strength Classic Fit Expo Fitness Experience. I got fifth out of seven. And on that final event going into it, I was still in fifth place. And I decided just to go for broke. You can pick your own stone. I wanted to just try to go for the heaviest stone while I'm here. I didn't want to try to rip out the lighter stone and just finish the same. So I was like, hey, might as well go for the heaviest stone and finish the same. Anyways, a lot of fun. I'm glad I got to compete in this competition hosted by Oudhaugen, legendary in the strongman community. First time competing away from Untamed Strength in several years. Just congratulations. Big congratulations to John. Punch Nugget was pushing me every single event. So we were going, you know, I was kind of seeing what he was doing, seeing what I needed to do. And I'm here in his top podium spot. And I'm happy to see Untamed Strength on the podium. So well done, John. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember, Tread on time.