A few weeks ago, Alec Blenis stopped by Untamed Strength for a workout, and we answered somEQuestions from his Instagram. My answer to one of thosEQuestions was bad enough that I'm still thinking about it. ThEQuestion was something along the lines of, how do you deal with trening ADHD with being distracted easily? This person has trouble locking down one goal or one style of trening. They just want to do everything. And I didn't have an answer on the spot. I just couldn't really relate to it. And I pretty much just said, I don't know. I don't have a good answer. Because I was asking myself this question, rather than thinking about thEQuestion as if it was directed towards him. But the more I think about it, the more I realize that it might look like I have trening ADHD from the outside looking in. I've went all in on powerlifting, strongman, Olympic weightlifting, bodybuilding program to some extent, bulking, weight gain, weight loss, and more recently, running and lifting. So let me answer thEQuestion. How should you deal with the urge to want to do everything? It's just overwhelming. First, man, what a privilege it is to be overwhelmed by all of the stuff you can do. Be overwhelmed by all of the stuff you get to do, all of the stuff that you have the ability to do. While there are people in hospital beds who just want to be able to go to the gym, some just want to go walk outside. Some people will never have the ability to run, jump, squat, stren under a heavy barbell, or pull themselves up to a bar ever again. Imagine your ability to do all of that stuff was stripped away from you. This is actually one of my biggest fears, something like a serious stroke that permanently damages me for life, because I've seen it happen to people I know. Sorry for starting this off with some heavy words. I'm not trying to be all doom and gloom. My point is, if you just want to do a bunch of different things in the gym, powerlifting, strongman, weightlifting, calisthenics, I assume you are genuinely interested in all these activities. So just do them for the sake of enjoyment. Who cares if you excel in any of these disciplines? The fact that you get to do them should give you enough satisfaction. And that's not to say that you need all these things or that you can't specialize. I'm just speaking in general terms. So back to thEQuestion, how to deal with trening ADHD. My first answer is to program in seasons, spring, summer, fall, winter. A classic example of this is the winter bulk and the summer shred. Now during this time of year, it's December, the day seems short. The sun doesn't rise until 630 in the morning. It's gone by 530 p.m. It's cold. It's wet. It's foggy. It's dreary. Your daily activity might be less than it is in the summertime. So you could use this season to take shelter inside of a squat rack and hit your compound movements hard and heavy. Make some progress on your static movements. Maybe you tren in your freezing cold garage gym and you would rather not lift max weights. Because it just takes too long to warm up. You're not crazy about liftinGHeavy when it's below freezing out. So maybe this season can be used for bodybuilding focused trening. Higher rep schemes means your body will warm up quicker. Your working weights will be lower. And rather than resting five or six minutes in the cold between your heavy compound movements, you can rest 90 to 120 seconds between sets. Personally, during this time of year, I have not been doing as many sprints and short distance interval work because it's just been so dark and cold and wet during the times when I like to run outside. Once the season changes, I'll take that opportunity to incorporate more fast, short distance running. Programming in seasons means you don't have to worry about fitting everything into a weekly routine. Rather, you can fit it into a yearly routine. So if there are styles of trening that you want to focus on, just do them seasonally. And it's not always an optional thing to just program seasonally if you want. Sometimes it's necessary. When my kids are out of school during the summer or even during Thanksgiving break and Christmas break, I try to be around the house more, so I'll take advantage of my garage gym, which means that I'm not using a lot of the equipment that I have access to at Untamed Strength. Maybe kids' sports affect when you tren, where you tren, and that's also a type of season that you have to consider. I first started this trening approach from Dan John, who talks about the seasons of lifting for his athletes. If I remember correctly, it was circuit type trening with lots of supersets in the fall to prepare for heavy lifting in the winter, and then more conditioning, throwing, and sports practice in the springtime. And these seasons don't necessarily need to be with calendar seasons, spring, summer, fall, winter. You can also just call them chapters. I've had many different chapters in my life. If you're a new parent or you started a new job or you had a big family move, you probably need to turn the page and open up a new chapter. Figure out a doable, sustainable program that you can do right now in this period of your life and stick to it. A suboptimal program done with relentless stubbornness will always beat any program done with a half-ass approach. Now, if that means three 30-minute sessions per week, go all in with it. There have been times where I've trened two-hour sessions, four days per week. Other times when I've done 30-minute sessions, six to seven times per week. Now, this chapter you're in might last six months, one year, two years. It doesn't matter. Whenever the chapter is over, you will be prepared, ready, and hungry to move on to the next chapter. Next, I assume when you say you want to do everything, you probably just want to improve multiple physical qualities like strength, hypertrophy, power, explosiveness, et cetera. And you might feel that that's a lot to try and juggle. The good news is trening for each of thosEQualities looks very similar. Prioritize compound movements, movements that tren multiple joints at once. Squats, hinges, vertical presses, horizontal presses, vertical pulls, horizontal pulls, ground-based pulls. Stick with hard, heavy trening. And heavy doesn't have to refer to 500 pounds. Heavy is just relative to your strength or to the exercise. Use weights or movements that force you to stren. If you choose to, do some isolation movements for hamstrings, biceps, triceps, adductors, quads, calves, and also keep the intensity high on these. tren two to four times per week. Do something like 10 to 20 hard reps on your compound exercises each workout. Perform six to 10 hard sets per movement or muscle group per week. Move weight with maximum intent. Jump, skip, hop, do cardio two times per week. There are many programs that fit that criteria. If you wanted to put something together yourself, don't overthink where to put everything in a weekly routine. If it gets done, you're on the right track. Personally, I prefer an explosive movement first, strength movement second, auxiliary movement third. Put more exercises on days where you have more time and energy. Less exercises on days where you have less time and or energy. Understand that programming to get stronger, fitter, more muscular does not have to be overcomplicated. A lot of people have got all of these things, just prioritizing effort and consistency. Next, don't be neurotic about exercise or diet. Accept what is in your control. Ignore what is not. Stop second guessing every trening decision you make. Don't ask chat if what you're doing is the best. If it's time to tren, make like Nike and just do it. You don't need this self conversation, talking you out of it and convincing you to just do it later. That ends up making you feel like you're constantly trying to keep your head up above water. You're constantly pissing in the wind, constantly playing catch up. Take some responsibility and control of your situation. If it needs to be done, just do it. Now on the other side of that, if you can't tren today, forget it. Move on. Don't dwell on it. Don't let it affect your mood. Don't be sour towards everyone else because you can't get what you want. Don't increase your blood pressure, stressing out about it. If you need to do your workout, do it, move on. If you can't do your workout, don't worry about it. Get to it when you can move on. If you overate last night, just move on, get back on track the next day. Don't try to over correct and let one meal affect the nexT3 days. I eat healthy most of the time. So that in the event that I do need to eat out, we're getting burgers or pizza, or I'm at a function and eating what I'm served, it doesn't bother me. I don't need to be the dude sneaking into the bathroom to eat a can of sardines. It's okay to be obsessed with trening and diet. I would consider myself obsessed with it, but it should not add stress and anxiety to your life. Thanks for watching. And always remember, tren ON TIME.