 How y'all doing? Adam Paul here fixing to show you how to take a big old piece of meat and turn it into a big old good piece of meat. Something you won't pay 20 bucks for at a barbecue joint. So here we got pork shoulder, pork butt, same thing just a big old piece of pork. You can use beef too. You can see it's cheap. Seven bucks for that big one, 6.30 something for that one, 15 bucks. I'm going to make like 20 sandwiches with 15 bucks. So I'm using my Kamado Joe smoker. You can use an oven. You can use a Weber grill, crock pot, same thing. So I take these two pieces of meat. I got me some yellow mustard and seasoning. Any barbecue seasoning you want. I like to use pre-made seasoning so I don't have to get 10 different ingredients. So just slather on some barbecue or some mustard on the pieces of meat. This is not for taste or flavor. It just gets the seasoning to stick to it and I guess it kind of makes a better bark if you're smoking it. Put that mustard on. Put the seasoning on. You can see here I like 50% seasoning on the meat and then 50% on the countertop. I could put down foil or parchment paper or wax paper to catch all this but honestly I just don't like producing more trash than I already do. So scoop it off and just put it back on the meat. I don't care. Here we go. Going on the Kamado Joe. And if you listen closely you can hear nothing except my son. You should not be sizzling right now. Low and slow. This is like 225, 250 temperature. Same thing you could do in an oven honestly. Just low and slow. This is about one hour check. Just check to make sure the meat is still there. I actually put it on a higher grate just so it's not so close to those heat deflector plates. This was something like hour two. It's probably going to sit on here for four or five hours depending on how big the meat is. The temperature is. I think around hour three here I started to spray it. Apple cider vinegar and water. I'm doing this to keep the meat cool so it doesn't get too hot and cook too quick. But it also just helps prevent any burning on hot spots on the grill and stuff. So I sprayed it about three and a half hours I think. And then went back inside. Made this little juice concoction. So we got a bunch of condiments. Worcestershire sauce. Soy sauce. Hot sauce which was just buffalo wing sauce. And some barbecue sauce. That is a half a cup total of all that stuff. And then I have the same amount of water. So half a cup of water. So this is a full cup of juice. None of this needs to be exact. I honestly just put it in there. As you can see. Don't measure anything. And what we're going to do here. This was like at four hours, four and a half hours. I was going to check the meat. So the meat should be 150 to 170. This is a good pork roast right now. It's edible. I could slice it and eat it. But it's not going to shred like a shredded pulled pork sandwich like I want. So you can see here I'm just taking the temperature before I wrap it. I would let this go a little further. You see here I'm feeling the fat. So the fat should be sticky before you wrap it. That means the fat is rendered. But I didn't really have time to let this go any further. I had to get to the gym for an appointment. So I wanted to wrap it before I went to the gym. So you just put it on some foil. Make a little foil boat. And put the juice, half of the juice on one. And then the other half of the juice on the other. This is just going to be a liquid that it braises in for another couple hours to make it real tender. I also put more seasoning on at this point. Here you see. Don't be afraid to be liberal with the seasoning. Because all that seasoning is going to get mixed up with the meat in the middle. It's a big piece of meat. And I'm going to shred this all together. So it's okay if there's tons of seasoning on the outside. It's actually good. You want that. Don't skimp. It's not a piece of chicken breast. And then put the wrapped pork back on for another couple hours. So this was probably two hours later. I got back from the gym. And at this point I don't even care about what the temperature is. I know it's cooked. I just want to check to see how tender it is. So you can see that needle, that thermometer has got a little bit of resistance. You kind of have to push it down. Or a knife if you were to use one. So I know it's got a little longer to go. It's not quite tender enough. This is fast forwarding to at home or inside after letting it rest. And you can see here this is nice and tender. The thermometer has just fallen through. Effortless. It doesn't even stand up on its own weight. And at this point if it's got a bone you can pull it out. The bone should just slide out totally clean and effortless. This is a good sign that this pork is going to shred nicely. And then I just shred it with my fingers. All that juice, all that seasoning goes in to spread throughout the entire pile of shredded pork. You could also do this again with beef, like a pot roast. And that's it folks. I made a whole bunch of food with this for $15 as you saw at the beginning. Obviously I had to buy buns and stuff like that. But I made pulled pork sandwiches. Little pulled pork sliders with some barbecue sauce. Onion pickles between a little BUN. And then a couple days later I made pulled pork enchiladas. As you can see some of those enchiladas are already gone. And I put some extra pulled pork on top. Fabulous. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember. Trend on time. G 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마 아마