憂right, real quick before this video starts. So this dude named Jeremiah reached out to me, he said he wanted to come to Untamed Strength. He's been watching the YouTube channel for a little while, he's a videographer. So he shot some footage at Untamed, but he's also a YouTuber, and he makes pretty entertaining videos where people who don't like metal, or maybe who have never heard of metal, listen to metal and then react to it. So he knows that Untamed Strength primarily plays metal music on the speaker, so he asked if there are any people at Untamed Strength who don't like metal. So I asked some of the members, do any of you hate metal? And quite a few said yes, or a handful, not quite a few, but a handful said yes. I asked if they wanted to be a part of this video, so he did all of this. He did the song choices, he made the playlist, he did the recording, the editing, he made this entire video. Go check out his YouTube channel, I'll link it down below. I was sitting there live, but I didn't really know the playlist, and I couldn't hear the songs because they had their headphones on. So watching this video edited was the very first time I got to see this. I think you'll get a kick out of it just as much as I did. Sounds like she's gagging. Oh. Oh. Oh. Ew. What the f*** was that? What the f*** was that? What kind of music do you normally listen to? For the most part, Spanish music, so I listen to a lot of reggaeton, a lot of banda, mariachi, Mexican music, and then English music, R&B, hip-hop, and country are my go-to, so. Yeah, so this is very different, for sure, from what I'm used to. Normally, well, all kinds, but mostly hip-hop and indie. 90s country, 70s, early 2000s, pop, usually. You're usually? I don't know, what do I listen to? It's kind of like hip-hop, some rap, but I'm open to a lot of music. I really listen to everything other than heavy metal, to be honest. I don't listen to a whole lot of country, but more of the newer type of country, but stick to hip-hop, pop, top 40 kind of stuff. No memo. Oh, my gosh, b-boy, oh, my gosh, woo, oh,吴御, oh, oh,吴御, oh, oh,吴御, oh, oh,吴御, oh, woo, woo, woo. Oh, geez. That's a no from me for that one. Fair enough. Um, I just feel he's just screaming the whole time. No. I like the beat. Thank you. So it wasn't what I was expecting. I think maybe the video kind of made it a little worse. Yeah. So, IMean, I know it's not easy to put that out of your voice. Yeah. Not my cup of tea. For sure. Fair enough. Delta hate. Very nice. I did it. Okay. Yeah, I'm not a huge fan of the screaming, but the actual music wasn't bad at all. All right, I'll take that. Oh, that was much nicer. Nice. Much more regular. Oh, man. Okay. I just can't.  Why do they always have to come in with the... UGH! It sounds like Christian It is Christian It is Christian It is Christian It is Christian UGH! We have not forgotten We have not forgotten We have not forgotten We now retort We now retort Reclaim the truth and safely bargain I like the guitar I like the guitar I like the guitar That's it That's something I'm surprised you caught on to that Oh, yeah, just the rebuild It sounded very Yeah, very perceptive Thank you, I appreciate that People should listen to more Bad Bunny That's what I think I'll meet you on the corner of Nah In Vern Yeah, you heard me Yeah Thank you The Posh outros It's just so dark And just so I can't Doesn't work for you? It does not Oh, man Are you trying to hurt my feelings? Because if so, you are succeeding Fortunately, my feelings regenerate at twice the speed of a normal man's The drum kit in that one made that tolerable The Of the, I think it was the kick drum? Yeah I did not like that one At all I will say I appreciate, you know Um How good they are on the instruments But lots of like Headbanging, I feel like would just give me a headache I don't like that one I like it when they are not screaming I like that one I like that one I like that one I like that one I like that one I just like I just can't find an instance in my life That I would want to hear this Not when I am working out Not when I am I just And you know That's the majority of the music that plays here So does that come in I'm like you are about to Ugh I'm trying to find a part of the music to like hold on to Cause like you know regularity helps with like Keeping My brain calm There's nothing regular about it Give it like a Like a 5 Out of 10 Like I don't hate it that much But I don't like it Also If that's allowed I kind of like that one Nice We got one at least The drummer is jacked That wasn't bad Nice Yeah I still can't understand him But it wasn't bad IMean it wasn't Terrible just I wouldn't listen to it again Yeah I could definitely listen to an instrumental version Of this music But as soon as the voice just kicks in I was just like no I'm out That was kind of cool Is the song actually over Kinda I can't listen to this I Nothing There's more What is new I'm meaving Is That One of my favorite parts Is that When the harmonizer kind of Gets cut off There is no There is no There is no You cannot Stop me now You cannot Stop me now Go Mmm That was okay Um, so I didn't like the song But I kept watching Cause I wanted to see what would happen next In the video It was pretty weird That felt like satire That felt like an SNL skit For this one Are the buff guys just extras In the video, they're not the actual That one's kinda random The guy with the longer blonde hair Just a fitness YouTuber Oh, okay, okay So he's not the one that's actually making music He wanted to do a metal video Did you move through? No No Yeah, they're all super duper buff Um It's a funny video, I like the video I still can't understand a thing Dude's saying, but Not bad, number 8's not bad Living Sacrifice Sounds scary Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Redemption Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Enemy Another K нас Another 4 Opening Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulders Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Shoulder Turn on time!