about the marketing thing, about me not being a great marketer. I don't like to go try to sell my gym and convince people to join the gym. The gym is what it is. If you see the gym and you think, this looks like where I wanna come tren, or this looks like potentially something I'd be interested in, then that's awesome. I'm more than happy to talk to people about the gym if they ask questions, or if there's some hesitation, I'll be sure to like soften and let them know like it's not as intimidating as you think, or come try a class for free. So I do that in a sense, but when I'm around friends and family, like at some function, and people are like, oh, you own a gym? How much is membership? And I'll tell them, it's 80 bucks a month. And I'll tell you, it's 80 bucks a month, it's a 24-hour access gym, 24-7, 365 gym never closes. It's got everything you would ever need for powerlifting, everything you would ever need for strongman, everything you would ever need for just strength trening in general. I got a whole bunch of machines. It's a fairly big space for a privately owned or a small business gym, I guess. There's strongman classes that I do that you can join for free. It's a good atmosphere, et cetera, et cetera. If I tell you that it's $80 a month, and you think, oh, I'm not paying that, then that's fine, I'm not gonna try to convince you that it's worth your $80 per month. For people that can appreciate it, they know, yes, I'll pay $80 a month to go there. So I don't try to sell it in that sense. If people have a misconception about it, and they're like, oh, I'm not a powerlifter, I'm not a strongman, or I'm not big and strong, then yeah, I'll tell them, I'll bring them back down to reality, and be like, that's not how it works. You're more than welcome to come in and tren. So that's what IMean by I'm not great at marketing the gym. I try to kind of just let it sell itself. And I think that comes down to, when I first started the gym, and people would ask me, like when I was in the Marine Corps, people would always drill me with questions. Like, how are you gonna do this, and when are you gonna do this? They would say it with an attitude to try to stump me, and I would always just think in my head, man, I don't really know yet, I'll figure it out. I would rather just show you than tell you exactly how I'm gonna do it. So it's kind of how I view marketing. I just rather show you what I got, and if you like it, cool, if not, no big deal. So, how does a staffless gym work 24-7? How do you operate a 24-7 gym? How do you not have problems? How do you cope with the emotional attachment to your gym going from private to public? We operate a club currently, but are steps away from becoming public. It feels like turning my home into an Airbnb thinking about it. Yeah, like I said, when I first started the gym, I did not, it was not open gym. You couldn't just come use the gym whenever you want. I kind of wanted to be in control, and kind of form this atmosphere, set the standard for this is what we do here. Not that I was like a drill instructor about it, but I was just, hey, we're gonna do strongman classes, barbell classes, et cetera. And the reason it went to 24 was I had members who were signed up, they were coming to classes, and then one member I'm thinking of in particular, he'd been coming for a while, he was a great member, I liked havinGHim around, and his schedule changed. And he was like, hey, I can't come, I have to go to the gym like at 11 p.m. now, so I gotta cancel. I'm like, no, I can't have you cancel. I said, dude, I'll give you a key. It's like a physical, actual key. I'll just give you a key, dude. Just come in whenever you want. And I was comfortable with him doing that. He did, and then that expanded to another member, and another member. Nobody taking advantage of it, but just me telling people, hey, I'll give you a membership, or I'll give you a key, come in, use the gym. And it just got to be a little more and a little more, and then I tried offering a VIP membership. So you got your standard membership, and then a VIP membership where I'm giving out keys. And eventually, once IMoved to the current location in 2016, and so that was three years after I opened, I said, I'm going full 24-hour access. And I was okay with that, and I was comfortable with it, because I had a good group of members. Didn't have a ton of members, but I had a good group of members, core group of members, and I had people coming in all throughout the day. So there was a morning, kind of a morning crew, an evening crew, afternoon crew, and everything in between. So I knew, okay, if I can't be here at night, at least I know these guys will be here, and they'll kind of police the gym a little bit. And so that put my mind at ease. And to be honest, it wasn't like I said, oh man, when I go 24-hour access, there's going to be a line of people out the door wanting to sign up. That would be a good problem to have. Membership didn't really change. It was like, it didn't help a ton, but it was just something I offered. I said, no more basic membership and VIP membership. It's just a 24-hour membership for everyone. And so I was okay with it. Also, I should say, I didn't have a family, I wasn't married, and so I could be at the gym all day, every day, and I was. So I wasn't really worried about that. Yeah, so that's kind of how I went from the jump of going from a private gym to a public 24-hour access gym. Didn't really have any issues with doing that. A couple rapid firEQuestions. Biggest expense is rent per month. No, I do not own my own building. I would like to. I actually tried to this year. I had to re-up my lease, and I thought, I'd like to buy a place. But there's just not, the specifics that I need, the size of building that I need, the common areas and parking lot and all that, my requests, there's nothing around. And mainly because landlords are not looking or landowners are not looking to sell. They would like to lease, because they can make a lot more money in the long run leasing a building than selling it. The only situation I could think of would be someone who needs money quick, like I'm out of this, I'm heading over to another country, I need money now, I'm selling my building. Or if they were way in over their head, like bankrupt and they needed this money. But there's really not a whole lot of incentive, from my understanding, for a landlord to sell. So I really couldn't find anything, so I do have to lease. Lease, monthly lease is my biggest expense. About employees, I have two employees. I used to have six, but that was kind of for untamed strength plus other stuff. But only two employees currently. And speaking of employees, what about running a gym? Do you most want to outsource or employ someone else to take care of? So I have those two employees. They help with, their main job is clening the gym every day just general clenup of the gym, clening the bathrooms. And they are there to staff the gym, because I can't always be, now that I have a family, I'm away from the gym often. And so having them there during just normal day hours, they can greet people when they come in, if they havEQuestions, they can answer thosEQuestions. If someone signs up and needs to come get their 24 hour access key fob, they're there to greet them and set their key fob up and all that. So that would be something that I outsource to them. Not because I dread clening, I just don't have the time to. When I used to spend 12, 14, 16 hours a day at the gym, then yeah, I used to do that myself. So I have them do it. Another thing would be bookkeeping. I have an accountant who does the bookkeeping and the taxes. Taxes for many years was such a headache. There were years where I was trying to be as honest as possible, but I didn't calculate it correct. And sure enough, I get some bill that's ridiculously high, like a couple years in a row. Yo, no, you actually owe us this. I'm like, oh no, I don't have that money. And then there were years where, you know, as a business owner, you have to pay estimated taxes. You kind of have to guess like, okay, I think this is how much I should be paying. And I was at the point where I'm like, why am I paying like 40% of my income in taxes? I was just, I was lost. I needed help. So those are the two things. clening, just attendance at the gym, having their presence at the gym, someone to greet people at the door, and bookkeeping. Toilet paper expense. So this morning I went and looked, I saw that question. I looked at how many invoices I've had in the past year, and it's been four invoices. Typically I spend about 1500 bucks on those invoices. That's for toilet paper. Sometimes I do throw some soap in there, hand soap, but that lasts a lot longer. The liquid hand soap lasts a lot longer than toilet paper. So let's do some math. If that was 1500 bucks four times a year, that would be 3,000 times two, 6,000. So let's say $6,000 a year on toilet paper, divided by 12 would be 500 bucks a month on toilet paper. There you go. Did local ads on Instagram and Facebook work, are they worth the investment? No, they're not. I've paid for ads like 2013, 14, 15. I paid for ads, not for the gym, but for my competitions. And I think that I got a couple signups. I actually had one year where I asked how you heard about the competition. There were a couple people who said a Facebook ad. I don't think Facebook is nearly what it was 10 years ago. And nowadays your phone, not even Instagram and Facebook, but our phones are so inundated with advertisements and sponsored ads that it's just, I feel like it's so easy to overlook a quick ad. But yeah, I don't think it's worth it. I think what you should do is create a social media account, Facebook, not Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, whatever. That's free To do. And then just create content or advertise there and hope that that goes somewhere. But don't rely on Instagram to pump it out for you. Another thing that helps with member retention. So I like to host competitions at the gym and I don't always host them. Sometimes it's members that host them, sometimes it's other gyms that host at my gym. Tomorrow there's a local powerlifting gym, Old School Iron, hosting a competition at my gym. So it doesn't cost me money, it just costs me my time and all that. But it is a good way to get members excited about something. If you have a competition at your gym or some function at your gym, people really like that. And I think that it gives them something to tren for, they can compete on their home field. So I think that that helps with member retention also. One other thing that I do that maybe you should, shouldn't do, I don't know. I don't hire coaches, I've never hired a coach. With that said, there are coaches at the gym and they are members of the gym and they coach or program for other people. Now those other people have to be members, they can't bring in a bunch of non-members and coach them there. If you wanna bring in your flock of trenees or clients, cool, as long as they have a paying gym membership. And so the reason I allow that is because one, I just think that if I put up a bunch of rules, like if you're gonna do programming for someone, if you're gonna do coaching for someone, you need to give me a cut. It's gonna lead to people being dishonest, trying to hide it from me, trying to pretend like they're not coaching them when they are, and I don't wanna deal with that. So my thinking is, if Bob is at the gym and he's programming for, and he works out there, and he does some powerlifting program for so-and-so and he charges them whatever price he wants, I don't really care. Because if Bob is taking care of them and giving them a program to do, they're more likely to continue using their membership. So I think that helps with member retention, honestly, is not being so stern with these rules of, if you're gonna tren someone, it's gotta go through me, you gotta get approval from me, you gotta pay me this, pay me that. Because then at that point, people are like, oh, just go tren somewhere else. So, yeah. Let's do another question before I do another set here. Hardest part about opening, challenges you face when you first opened. I think the one thing that pops into my mind is asking people for money was really challenging. Still don't like doing it. But asking people for money was hard for me. When I first opened the gym, I said first month was free. Because I wanted people to get in there. I also was like, it was my way of procrastinating. I don't like charging people, just get in the gym, tren, and then we'll talk about money later. So I didn't like, I felt uncomfortable asking people for money, asking people to sign up. And so, my experience was, after a month, I told people, hey, free month's over, you sign up, the website's set up, go ahead and sign up within the next couple days, and so-and-so. And then people would still come, but there was no signups. And I'm like, hey guys, yeah, I know you like cominGHere. You gotta start paying, I gotta start charging so I can keep this place open. Still didn't really get people to sign up, maybe here or there. But people were like, oh yeah, yeah, for sure, bro, for sure, I'll get it later. I'll get to it, I'll get paid this day, I'll do this and that. And I'm like, hey, sounds good, sounds good. I didn't want to be too blunt or upfront. And it just was such a hard thing to do. Even when I'd tell people about the gym first, and they'd be like, how much is it? And I'm like, $70 a month. And they're like, oh, I go to Planet Fitness for $9.99 a month. Fitness 19 down the street's $20 a month. Oh, you know, why? And I'm like, I just didn't like asking people for money. And that was probably the most challenging part. I think that this can kind of trensition into another question about what are some good traits or characteristics of a gym owner. If you are working with people, at the start, I think that it's really, it helps to be able to talk to people, to be a people person. And it helps to be comfortable in giving people direction or telling people what to do. And I think the military helped me with that. When you have a group of people in front of you, and you have to tell them what to do, clear, concise instructions, it's kind of nerve-wracking. You know, you're thinking, what if they ask this question and I don't know? What if I'm not clear? What if I'm stumbling over my words? It's just hard to tell someone what to do. It's not like just having a casual conversation. And so I think that you should work on that, and that'll really help with trening people, trening individuals, and trening groups of people. Okay. You used to say that X is not a good reason to open a gym, but you never said what is a good reason. That is a good observation. I never said what is a good reason to start the gym, because I don't feel like that's, someone who wants to open a gym doesn't need convincing that they should open a gym. I don't think that I'm gonna make a YouTube video and say, you know, here's three reasons why you should open a gym. And then someone watches and says, I think I just might open a gym. That's not the right mindset to go on. And that was never my way of thinking either. I never thought like, hey, what are some good reasons to open a gym? I was just dead set on, I am opening a gym. I don't care what it takes. And I just had a lot of people say like, you know, often like, oh, opening a gym sounds cool because this, this, and this. And so that's why I would make videos like, hey, this is not a good reason to open a gym. Think twice before saying, maybe I'm gonna open a gym. And so that was kind of the reason why I said, I never listed what a good reason was, but I'll play along. Some good reasons to open a gym. This isn't just a gym, but this is just a business. Owning your own business, you are in charge. I like being in charge. I like being responsible for myself. I don't have to report to a boss. I don't have to work with coworkers. I don't have to work with business partners or anything like that. I don't have to run things by someone. I don't have to ask for permission. I don't have to, I get to make all decisions on my own. So that's just business ownership. But as far as a gym goes, if you're passionate about something, if you love fitness, if you love lifting weights, if you love gym equipment, then having a big space as a blank canvas, you get to create whatever you want for the most part. Like money's a limiting factor. It'd be nice if I was a millionaire and I could just buy whatever I wanted. But for the most part, I can decide, this is how I want the gym to look. I want more of this equipment. I want less of that equipment. I want this, I don't want that. I'm in total control. And so to be able to build your own gym is really, really cool. No different than someone who's passionate about baking. Like I'm gonna open a bakery and I'm gonna sell this stuff. I'm gonna write this menu. I'm gonna make what I love doing a living from it. Yes. Hey Ellen, what does the future of gym ownership and culture look like to you? Another question asked, what is the future of Untamed like? Do you wanna expand? Do you wanna, are you gonna go multiple locations? Are you gonna open one in another state? So here's the thing about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. More is not always better. And I've spent many years trying to earn more money, earn more money, get more members. Bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger. And I'm not saying that I'm done with that or that I don't want more members or that I don't want more money. But there is a point, and I found this out for myself, there is a point at which more is not always better. You don't actually want a bigger or busier location or business as a business owner. So let me kinda paint this picture of like a mom and pop shop. Let's say you go into a mom and pop restaurant as a customer. And you're like, man, this place is great. It's never busy, I always come in here. Mom and pop are the sweetest people. Mom comes out and pours my coffee. We talk, we chat. Dad's back there making a great breakfast for me. This is just great, what a great establishment. I don't understand why people wait for an hour at IHOP down the street. This is the place to be. And then one day you come in there and they're like, hey, you got reservations? Reservations, I've never been to reservations here. Yeah, yeah, it's gonna be an hour wait if you don't have reservations. And you go sit down and mom's not the one to pour your coffee, it's a new employee. She's not very personal, she just kinda pours your coffee and takes off and dad's not back there. Someone else is making breakfast, it's not as good. It's just crazy busy and crowded. And part of you feels good, happy for mom and pop because they're doing really well. But then part of you is like, well, now my favorite place is gone. This place is not what it used to be. It's not as good as what it used to be, as good as I remember it. And you can sort of have that in a gym. So if I continue just getting more space, more members, and I just have this place overflowing with people, all types of people. And I get more and more equipment. And let's say I want, I'm gonna get an octagon for people who like MMA and punching bags and speed bags. And I'm gonna get a sauna and I'm gonna get all these amenities. And I just want more people in this place. It starts to water down the facility. There's a point in which I want to provide as much as I can to the members. But I really want to focus on the core group of members and figure out why people come to my gym. I don't want to just mimic a 24-hour fitness. And so I consider that. The more members I get, the more it can somewhat water down the facility or the experience. Now, with that said, I do need more members in order to pay for more squat racks, more monoliths to replace bars. So it's a balance. And you kind of have to find that balance. Also, I have, I talk way too much. I'm gonna do a set here. I'm just gonna leave this rolling. I have, I am not making the most amount of money I've ever made right now. I have made yearly and monthly a lot more money, like a good, good chunk more money. And at that time, I had six employees. And it was a freakinGHeadache. I didn't like it and I was making quite a bit more money. I am way more happy now, even though I'm making less money monthly, quite a bit more. I'm just so much happier because it was so stressful dealing with having more employees. And to where I was like sitting there laying in bed at night like thinking about all this stuff. I've never had that. I usually, my head hits the pillow, boom, I'm asleep. Boom, I wake up. I'm happy, ready to go. I was like thinking about it at night. I'd wake up, still be thinking about this. And it was really weighinGHeavily on me. And I would have to deal with like putting out these fires and it was not worth the extra money. And so I'm happier now, even though I'm earning a little bit less money. And so that's just, I guess, something to consider. More money, more problems. More money is not always a good thing. I have to remember when I first started out, my dream was to just make enough money to survive, just to get by and to do what I love every day. I don't need to be a millionaire. I don't need to take vacations to Bora Bora every six months. I would just like to, hey, every once in a while, go camping with my family. So I don't even remember what I'm talking about or what question I'm answerinGHere. Yeah, my overarching theme here is more money, more problems, sometimes. How much research did you put in determining the location of your gym? Were you sure the area you were based at could meet your revenue needs? All of thesEQuestions about revenue and where to start and all this kind of stuff, I wanted to start dirt cheap. I wanted to start with something really small. A small space, a little bit of equipment. I knew I had nothing but time to work with people. And so a big selling point was working with me, was going to my small group classes, was doing personal trening with me and my facility. Another story I'd like to share. And I was really embarrassed at the time, but I advertised the gym as a powerlifting gym when I first started, and it was not. I didn't have good bars. I didn't have good racks. I didn't have bands, chains. I didn't have monolift. I didn't have combo racks. I didn't have comp plates. Nothing that would make it a powerlifting gym other than, I guess, I had some squat racks and some really crappy benches. And I was trening one evening, my girlfriend at the time, my wife now, and two of her friends. And we were doing some dumbbell stuff. I don't know what it was, but it was an evening, and I was just trening those three. And I let them listen to whatever they wanted to on the stereo, and they were listening to Katy Perry or something like that. And in walks this big, huge dude. It's like six and a half feet tall. Kind of walks in, ducks under the door. Huge dude. And I had, at this time, never really seen powerlifters. And this dude was a big powerlifter. He had AST shirt on, super trening shirt. And it turns out he was from super trening. So if you think about 2014 super trening, when they were at the first location, you got Mark Bell, probably Scott Cartwright, these big, huge powerlifters, like the peak of super trening. He came from their gym, and he was looking for a new powerlifting gym. And he was very polite, very respectful. He didn't trash my gym or talk bad about it. But he was like, yeah, I heard about this was a powerlifting gym. And he was kind of wondering, am I in the right spot? Katy Perry playing, and these girls doing like dumbbell rows or something. And I was just so embarrassed, man. I was like crushed. I was like, oh, this guy is who I want, and this is what he sees, his first impression. I told him, yeah, we're doing just a little class right now. But yeah, the gym's powerlifting, you can come in. And he was like, oh, this is cool, man. He's like, yeah, just kind of talking me up, being polite. And he's like, you got a good thing goinGHere, man. Good luck to you. And he had left. And the whole night, I'm like sitting there, like sleeping wide awake, like, oh no, that was, I ruined it. But he actually came to the gym, to Untamed Strength, years later. And he signed up for a little bit, but something, he had to move, and he left. So he got to see kind of the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone after a few years, which was cool. I felt good. Like, I saw him, my eyes lit up. I said, you came to Untamed Strength years ago. He's like, yeah, man, this place looks a lot different now. So that was cool. So about how much research did you go into determining the location of your gym and revenue needs. So one thing with my gym and my YouTube channel and the success of those two things was definitely timing. If I tried to open Untamed Strength now, I don't know that I would have as good of a response. If I tried to start a YouTube channel right now, I don't know if it would have a good enough response. If IMade a how to squat video, how many people are searching for that still? Or how many people would watch that? It's just saturated with that kind of information. So I think that timinGHelped a lot. And there was not anything, there were some CrossFit gyms, but there weren't like privately owned gyms. So it wasn't really a thing. So I think that that helped me a lot. There were certainly not strongman gyms. And I still stand above all other gyms in the area as far as strongman equipment. So the timing really, really helped me. I didn't do a lot of research. I didn't do a lot of preparing, if you can get that theme out of all thesEQ&A videos. I didn't have a great plan. I didn't prep much. I just had a very small idea and passion and I wanted to grow from there. I just wanted to plant this seed and grow from there. I was in the Marine Corps before I opened the gym. And I spent a few years just racking my brain, a couple of years, racking my brain with questions. What is this and what do I do for this? And how do I do this and what do I do that? Would look a little bit online. I even did a Elliot Hulse, bought an Elliot Hulse e-book about starting your own gym. And I'm like, I was reading it, but I couldn't really relate to any of it. I didn't really know what it meant as far as marketing. And he was talking about how to earn $10,000 a month. And I'm like, what the fuck? I'm like, if I could get a thousand bucks a month, that'd be awesome. So I just couldn't relate to much of it. But I was so sick of asking questions and wondering that I was like, I just want to start this small and grow from there. I got nothing but time, nothing but energy. No responsibilities other than this gym, so let's do it. And one of my friends, my brother's friend, had said to me when I got out, he's like, dude, what are you doing with this thing? And he's like, why would you not go to school right now and get the GI Bill and collect some revenue from that? It doesn't make any sense. And I was like, I don't want to spend time doing anything but this. I don't want to go here to school if it means I get money so I can supplement this. I just want 24-7, 365, all in with this. And I'll go from there. So I didn't do a lot of research in a determined location or gym. I also opened a gym close to where I am from, close to my hometown and where I was living. So I knew I didn't really, I was familiar with the area. I didn't really go outside of that. So I didn't say, all right, I'm out of the Marine Corps. What state should I go to? What city should I go to? Where's the market best? I couldn't predict any of that. So I didn't put much research into the location of my gym. It was just, is this in somewhat proximity that I can get here frequently? And where is rent affordable, pretty much? And then thEQuestion about how close were you, have you been to closing the gym? ThesEQuestions have consumed me over the past few days because once I read them, I just opened up a huge can of worm and I'm thinking about answers to all this. I'm reliving a bunch of this stuff and just thinking a lot about it. And I'm obviously not doing a whole lot of trening because I'm talking so much. So I'm happy to get this stuff off my chest. But about closing the gym, I realized that when I answered that, I think I took more of how long, how close were you to closing the gym in your brain, in your mind? And I never had the mindset of like, oh, IMight close, ever. But as far as like financially, how close have I been to closing the gym? There's been two months in the beginning when I was out of money and I couldn't pay rent. One month, my girlfriend, who is now my wife, how sweet, she gave me, she knew I was hurting and I was like, kind of, I don't know where I'm gonna get this money. She gave me 500 bucks and that helped me pay rent for that month. And then the next month, my mom had come in, had sold her house and so she got some upfront money. And she knew I was kind of hurting. I didn't ask for it, I didn't tell her I was hurting, but she just, kind of, out of the blue, the universe was helping me. She just wrote me a $750 check and that helped me pay rent the next month. And then, I don't know what I did after that, but I've managed to pay rent and get by from then on. So I guess those two months, there were two months when I couldn't pay rent and I was like, I don't know where I'm gonna get this money. And so, there was actually more than two months because at one point, I sold a lot of my Marine Corps stuff, which is unfortunate. Still have a pair of my cammies and stuff like that, but I had a lot of military equipment. When I got out of the Marine Corps, all of my issued stuff was, they lost the paperwork for when they issued it to me. So when I went to check out, they were like, you have nothing on file. I said, that's right, that sounds right. So I got to keep a lot of it, but I sold it because I realized on Craigslist, damn, people are really collecting this stuff hard. And so, I sold a lot of it for a good amount of money. I'm talking like flak jacket and field gear. And so, I was able to sell a lot of that stuff and that helped me pay rent. I've talked before, I started flipping tires, not in a strongman sense, but I started getting free Tires and then selling them on Craigslist for like 40, 50, 60 bucks, 80 bucks. And then I would do delivery also. And that helped me pay rent a couple of times when I was short a few hundred bucks. Unfortunately, I sold that leg press that I bought, which is an awesome leg press. I bought the leg press, a squat rack, and a bunch of hex dumbbells for $500. And I was able to sell the leg press only for 500 bucks. So I was selling equipment, which was just a bad thing to have to do to like sell your gym in order to keep it afloat. So those would be like the few months that I could not afford rent and I had to figure out a way to make some money. But yeah, that would be my answer. Financially, how close have I been to like not paying rent? Those handful of months. Where do you get your equipment? Currently searching for dumbbell sets for a home gym. In your case, I would suggest, definitely suggest Facebook Marketplace. Try to see, there's always stuff like that. Simple stuff like dumbbells that are for sale. If you have a used sporting goods store in your area, I have two, no, three. That's really, really helpful. As far as me deciding on what equipment to use, I'm gonna pick something that's reliable. A lot of powerlifting stuff is name brand. If I were to buy some like off-name, you know, deadlift bar, yeah, a lot of people are gonna use it. But the name brand stuff, people really like, oh, you have a Texas deadlift bar? You have a Rogue deadlift bar? You have a Kabuki deadlift bar? Like people who know these things or hear these things are really attracted to it. Some people will not necessarily pick whatever's not being used. But a lot of that name brand stuff for powerlifting is really helpful. And again, pick something reliable. So I used to go really cheap with sandbags for strongman. I went to a military store and I used my own green sea bags. Those things popped, I don't even, like in no time, sand everywhere. So okay, maybe I should buy an Iron Mind sandbag because that's what they use at World's Strongest Man. And so people would just see those blue sandbags and think, oh, sweet, I've seen those in World's Strongest Man. Stuff like that. With machines, I almost always buy the same type of machines just based on the name because the name sells itself and it's reliable. Like Hammer Strength, for example, Precor or Icarian, that stuff is built to last. And I know that the cable and the belt is not gonna break on me. It's just, again, it just has a longstandinGHistory. So I know that it's reliable. But if I'm buying, sometimes I do get stuff, like more plates or people sell, I've sold, they sold, some people during the pandemic when all the plates were gone, they bought competition plates, even though they're not power lifters and they don't compete. But I've bought a lot of aftermarket Facebook marketplace kilo plates because people sell those. So sometimes I do buy stuff on Facebook marketplace. But I'm not gonna get, like, I wouldn't buy a treadmill from some little home gym and expect that to last in a commercial gym where people are using it throughout the entire day. So there's that kind of stuff. And I learned that, not the hard way, but thankfully someone kind of educated me on that. I was gonna buy a treadmill. And the guy was like, what are you using this for? And he was like, man, this is good for if you wanna walk on it a couple times a week. But I would not put a 300 pound dude like shuffling on this. This is not commercial grade, this is home gym grade. And so I was like, oh, wow, thanks for the heads up. So stuff like that kind of makes me, I take into consideration when purchasing gym equipment. All right, camera was acting funny. I had to take care of some stuff here. So in today's market, how much does it cost per month to run your size of gym? Obviously every location and size is different, but just curious what a rough average monthly operation costs for something like that. So what I would say is rent, lease for a commercial building. IMean, it depends on what state you're in, what county you're in, what city you're in, location, if you're midtown, if you're on the, wherever. But it's gonna be probably, if I would have to guess, one to $3 per square foot. So let's just play some numbers. Let's paint a picture here, have some fun with this. I used to do this before I opened Untamed. So let's say you have a 2,000 square feet of warehouse. You just have to figure out how much space do I need? How much space can I work with? What's available? 2,000 square feet, that would be 50 feet wide by 40 feet long. 50 by 40 would be 2,000. My math is correct. And let's say you have 2,000 square feet and you pay, we'll cut that in half, one to $3, $2 per square foot. So that's $4,000 per month you have to pay on just rent. Let's say you can't be here all the time and so you want an employee to work 40 hours a week. Let's say you pay that employee $15 an hour. Again, it depends on where you live, for minimum wage, et cetera. Let's say 15, cost of living, let's say $15 an hour, 40 hours a week. 15 times 40 is, 15 times four is 60. $600 a week on payroll. And that's times four weeks in a month. So $2,400 a month on payroll. So I've got $4,000 for rent and then 2,400 for payroll. That's $6,400 a month on just rent and payroll. And then let's just kind of round up to 7,000 for miscellaneous bills, electric. Maybe you've got stuff on top of that like you're paying off loan interest or you have credit card bills, et cetera. Let's just go stop there, okay? $7,000 a month for this building, this gym that you're operating. Gonna have to crunch some numbers then. So okay, I got $7,000 a month I have to figure out how to make. So let's say that's 100 members, that's $70 each. There's no way I can accommodate 100 members in this gym or that would take way too long to get 100 members. I only have zero right now. So maybe I can do 50 members at $140 a month. Well, I can't charge $140 a month on this gym. So you've just got to figure that out. Maybe you'll have to find a place that's only 1,000 square feet or you'll have to find a 2,000 square foot warehouse with far less rent. Or you're gonna say, I can't afford to have an employee. I'm gonna be the employee, I'm gonna staff the gym. So that's just roughly how you kind of crunch those numbers.