Alright, everyone, welcome. Let's look inside the home gym, the garage gym of my six year old and my three year old. See what they're working with here. There we go. What did you expect? Barbells? Dumbbells? Machines? I don't think so. I've got my stuff over here. But this is the garage gym for my kids. Let me explain all this. It's a bunch of things to climb on, swing on, jump on, land on, climb up to. So let's go this way. Alright, hopefully we can see everything okay. So first off, let's go over here. We got some ladder here, up to some monkey bars here. So these monkey bars I just bought on Amazon. I was trying to make my own with just some steel PIPing at Home Depot, but man, the price of that stuff was like four times the amount of these things. So I just went with these, got them on Amazon. They're just monkey bars. And then I had some spare wood in the backyard. If you're a dad, you know, you've got that pile of wood in the backyard that needs to be used. You know, you're going to use it one day. Five years later, I finally got to use it. These are like, these are two by sixes. And I just put them in the rafters. I pre-drilled holes and then just use some deck wood lag screws, lined it over there. And then I just drilled in the monkey bars all the way across. And then this is the turnaround point where they would either turn and go back or drop down onto this, this crash pad. This is just full, comes pre-filled with a bunch of foam inserts, foam rectangles, kind of like a foam pad you would see at a gymnastics gym or a foam, a foam pit at a gymnastics gym. And I'll do my best to show you guys the brands and where I got them. There you go. This is a, I believe they have a, this is the five by five. I think they have different sizing. This is a five by five option. So they'll play on this. They'll do front flips onto it, somersaults onto it, or they'll land on it from the monkey bars up there. And then over here, this crash pad, this was a bounce track, air track. I guess that's it. I N C I I I think air track. I found this on Facebook marketplace. Someone was selling it pretty cheap. I think it was like 50 or 60 bucks. And there you go. And it's full of air and it's very bouncy. I tell them not to put their shoes on it, but I'm gonna do that. It's very bouncy and it can double in the winter or the summertime as a water slide. It's waterproof. So this is great for this bar that they get to swing on. They also get to do jumps and somersaults and things like that on this track. I would highly suggest, so I went back to this, this I did buy on Amazon. Most of this stuff was on Facebook marketplace. I just bought secondhand. You can get a lot of this stuff, move over here, on Facebook marketplace because people buy this stuff for their kids. In a couple of years, their kids outgrow it and then they put it up for sale. This is just a gymnastics bar that they can hang on. They can do spins around the bar and then I got a bunch of ab, ab mat crash pads. This is the perk of being a gym owner. I have so many crash pads. I leave a certain amount at the gym, certain amount in storage. I leave some here. I think there's four here and when I have a competition or when I have an event where I need a bunch of crash pads, I'll just bring them back to the gym. This is a swing that my daughter loves when I'm working out in between sets and my son likes to climb it to the top. I need to put a little bell up there so he can ring it every time he climbs to the top. Gymnastics rings, these are more for me. They're tucked away right now. They're not hanging down. Gymnastics rings that they can swing on, I use that more than they do. This is a rope. This is a workout rope. I think it's for battle ropes but what is it? Garage fit and I just looped up some secure knots. I went down, around, looped around there, across and down. So it's pretty much tension knots. I can put all my weight on it. Sometimes I'll do like one arm inverted rows on this but they'll use this for a swing. My daughter loves the swing. They use it for a swing. They'll climb the rope. Sometimes my son will go up the monkey bars, up the ladder, across the monkey bars and then he'll climb over and climb down the rope. So if you want to talk about strengthening your kids there, grip strength, back strength, just getting them to climb monkey bars is really cool and having this, he's not shy about a park anymore where he used to be. He used to not want to hang on a bar by himself or he couldn't jump down off the monkey bars by himself. Now he'll drop down if we're at a park into the bark, no problems at all and he'll actually count. Count how many monkey bars I can do and I remember it used to be he used to do five reps and then it was six reps and then count. You got nine monkey bars. You got across the whole thing. You have 15 monkey bars. He'll go down one way and then come back. So it's pretty cool to see how just havinGHim play in this spot has been really helpful. There are parks around but we can't always run out to the park. You know it might be like 30 minutes while dinner's being made. They can come out here and play and it's really nice for rainy days. And then let's see, with the air track is this bar that they swing on and I secured it. So this was a this was actually a bar for sandbag toss at the gym. A sandbag toss bar and we eventually phased it out and got a longer one. So this was really wasn't used but this was custom made. It's just a metal PIPe and then it's got these this rounded D part welded on and I had some cheap chain lying around in my garage so I used this. This is not very strong chain. It's strong enough to support them but sometimes a couple of kids get in or at the same time some sometimes some of the big kids will get on here if their cousins are over. And I went ahead and secured it up there. It's just a D ring. I'll show you this side. Just a D ring like that. Again some lag screws pre-drilled right into the rafters and then put the lag screws in. Just as they were using this I don't know the weight strength of this little chain so I just put a rope in between each. Put a rope down. This is the security measure so if the chain fails I got that rope to hold it up so they don't fall and the bar doesn't whack them in the teeth. But that is and then a couple other small things. This little yoga ball Bosu ball that they like to jump on. It's kind of acts like a trampoline. We can flip it over and they can do some balance trening if they want. Got a balance board over here but yeah this is the this is the setup. This is the garage gym. For my kids. Maybe I've inspired you to set up some stuff in your garage or even a spare house. I'm sorry a spare house. We all have spare houses right? In your spare bedroom you could make this and I guess step one you need a garage and you need to be able to clen out your garage. I will say that this really has motivated me to clen out my garage. I clen out my garage like every like every two weeks I feel like. Just organized stuff. It prevents me from holding on to stuff and hoarding stuff that I don't actually need. So I have to keep my garage open. I have to keep it clear. Get rid of the old stuff. Keep better organized with my stuff because I want them to have this spot and it's not going to be here forever. Eventually they're going to phase out of this and not want to play in here. So I figure I'll take advantage of while I can. And as far as clearing this out for traffic walking through. What I've done is I've got some rafters up here that IMade and all I do is just secure this stuff. It's going to be kind of hard to show on camera but I just secure this up here like this. Right there. And that just gets the rope out of the way. This one here. I'll bring this up here. I've got this little guy. I'll put him up here. Can't do this one-handed. Wrap this up. That's it. I'll throw this right over here behind my bike like that. And it just gets all that stuff out of the way. And I can always flip this up against my stuff. I can move this on top. So we got the whole garage open if we need to do stuff. Like some of this stuff is decorated for Halloween if you haven't noticed. And we just had a little pumpkin carving party in here. So I was able to just move this stuff off to the side. Put a table in and we were able to do that. So that's it. That is a home gym. Garage gym for my six-year-old and my three-year-old. Thanks for watching. Always remember, tren ON TIME!