Hello everyone, my name is Alan Thrall and this is one full week of my current bodybuilding program. Before I start, Untamed Strength Apparel has been restocked and it's ready to ship. Check out UntamedStrengthApparel.com So this is a full look at my program. Exercises, sets, reps, intensity, as well as some of my thought process. This program was written by NaturalHypertrophy and it is written in the description of the video he made with me as a guest. So I've been followinGHim now for six months and it's still almost identical to what he wrote with a few small adjustments. So this is day one, upper body day. Bench press, right off the bat an adjustment has been made. My pec tendon has been bothering me just a little, nothing serious at all, but enough to warrant an adjustment in trening. So all of my benching is close grip incline bench, as you can see here. So I do three sets of 8 to 12 reps, all sets at RPE 8 to 10. I push intensity based on how my tendon is feeling that day. And this is supersetted with pullovers. Three sets of 6 to 12 reps. If there is one new movement that I would have to say has been my favorite, it is pullovers. Now I've done them for a few weeks with a dumbbell. I've done them for a few weeks with a pullover machine. And right now I'm doing them, I've been doing them for a couple of weeks with an EZ bar. As of now, a dumbbell is my favorite. If I had to pick a dumbbell, I'd say is my favorite. EZ bar would come second and a machine third. So when I first started doing these, I had to start with like a 20 pound dumbbell because I wasn't doing it right. I kept my arms straight as an arrow, which put the dumbbell very far away from my head. And when I would reach the end range of motion, I felt like my shoulder was going to dislocate. So I thought to myself, what am I doing wronGHere? Search YouTube videos. Now, as you can see, I keep my arms bent and the bar close to my head. I imagine the bar moving in a tight curve around my head. Stretching my rib cage at the bottom, pulling with my lats, moving my elbows. Not straightening my arms at the top like a scroll crusher. And I'm only pulling the bar to my chin or neck area. Now, as far as progression from week to week, I'll try to shoot for the top end of my rep range for all sets across the board. In this case, 12 reps for all three sets. Once I do that, I'm ready to add some weight to the bar. And if the reps end up being 11, 10, 9 over three sets, the goal would be to try to hit this new weight for 11 reps for all three sets. Now, with that said, I don't worry about progression that much. I am taking a very patient approach. It's not to say that I don't try or I don't care. It's to say that if I do 11 reps and I know the 12th is going to be ugly. It's going to be bounced off my chest. It's going to be an uneven lockout. I'm just going to rack the bar. I'm not going to attempt it for the sake of getting one more rep than last week. I don't want to do one more rep than last week and have it feel like it was substantially harder. I will do another rep when it's right there in my face. I'm not going to overreach for it. I'm not going to chase it. I'm playinGHard to get, if you will. Progress will come to me. I don't chase it. And I don't play games with myself and say, well, you know, maybe I'll rest a couple minutes longer before this last set so I can get X amount of reps. Or I'll arch a little harder on this set. I'll lift my butt up off the bench and turn this incline bench into a flat bench. I try to remain consistent in terms of rest, tempo, and technique. Next up is a giant set. Three exercises all back to back to back. It's a giant set of overhead press, pull-ups, and French press. This was actually written as the last exercise, last giant set of the day. But I found that I can give more effort to these if they're second in the program. And the exercises that are moved now to the end aren't as impacted by fatigue. I can still push them even when I am tired. So overhead press is three sets of six to ten reps. I actually think I went to 12 reps here. And that is supersetted with weighted pull-ups. Three to four sets of four to six reps. Sometimes seven or eight. I love neutral grip pull-ups. I want to say something about this rack here that you're looking at. This is a Hammer Strength half rack, and it is bomb-proof. In fact, it's fireproof. I got it for very cheap used on Facebook Marketplace. It was in a house fire. It was left standing when everything else burned. It was covered in black soot. I bought it. I clened it up. I polished it. And here it is. After this, I do French press. This overhead extension really stretches the triceps, which is something I never did when I was powerlifting and doing strongman. All of my tricep work came from bench press and overhead press, which certainly trens your biceps, but not in this lengthened position. And let me tell you what. Supersetting this with overhead press is brutal. But let me tell you something that I found here. If my triceps are tired from this movement, my shoulders work a little bit harder on the overhead press. It's funny how that works. Notice my overhead press technique. So what I used to do is shove my head forward as soon as the bar cleared it. Notice how I'm not doing that. I'm trying to keep my head back, even at the top. This allows me to move the weight with my shoulders throughout the entire movement. If I shove my head through and treat the top half like a tricep extension and hold the weight at lockout for a second, my triceps wouldn't be able to hang after a set of French press. So I think I did 12 reps again here. Sometimes I do reach the top end of my rep range. In this case, 10 reps was the top end. And I realized that I have a few more reps in the tank. So rather than just racking the bar and saying, yeah, that was pretty easy, I'll just knock out a few more reps, chasing those hard reps that are going to lead to hair growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on my chest. When I do these French presses, I like to do them with back support. If I'm supersetting them with standing overhead press, because I can push them a little bit harder. There's quite a bit of lean back in the overhead press and the standing French press. So I sit down and I put a backrest behind me. Next up, the second superset is supposed to be pause bench or flies, superset with curls. Again, IMoved it to the end. I was doing pause bench for about six weeks, and then I switched that out for ring push-ups, which I love doing, even weighted. But because of the pec irritation, I have now been rotating between ring push-ups one week and then these low cable flies the next week. These don't bother my pec at all, and I can still feel the chest stren. This is three sets of 10 to 15 reps. Flies are also a movement that took some time to figure out. When I first did normal flies on a machine, not these low cable flies, I did them with straight arms. I tried to keep my hands as far away from my body as possible, and I noticed that my biceps were sore the next day. So I played around with bent arms, range of motion, elbow flare, elbow tuck, just to find out what feels best. I superset those flies with curls, three sets of 8 to 12 reps at RP 9 to 10. I'm not entirely sure why, but barbell curls are probably my favorite bicep implement. I like them more than dumbbells, easy bar, or cable, maybe because this is how our ancestors trened their biceps. I don't know. I just really enjoy barbell curls. Day two is lower body. My lower body days are a bit more nuanced. I don't follow the program exactly, pretty damn close, but I don't follow it exactly as written for two reasons. Number one, my lower body is pretty developed, so I don't need to focus purely on hypertrophy. And number two, I still focus a little bit on performance, like these squat jumps you see me doinGHere. I do these as warm-up. This is not in the program, but I like doing them. It's a good warm-up. My squat always feels better after doing these, and I don't want to lose my ability to jump. I often find myself jumping out of the bed of my truck, jumping off a playground structure with my kids. In fact, just the other day, my son and I climbed a tree, and the easiest way to get down was to jump down. So really, even more important than jumping, I want to be able to land. I do still follow the layout and the structure of the lower body routine, however. So squats, 3 sets of 6 to 10 reps. I just recently started squatting normally again, like you're seeinGHere in the video. I've been doing tempo squats, 3 to 5 seconds down, 3 seconds up. Tempo squats really help me focus on technique, balance, and positioning. And at the time, they just felt good, so I kept doing them for several weeks. My squat intensity is not as high as my upper body intensity. I typically end at RPE 6 to maybe 8 with very strict form. I don't want my knees to slide back out of the bottom. I don't want my butt shooting up and dumping the weight onto my back. I'm just pushing my feet into the ground and using my legs to stand up. I superset these with neck flexion exercise. This is a great example of free volume. Doing neck flexion between sets of squats takes zero away from my squat performance. And it's a perfect opportunity to tren neck. And it's a better type of neck flexion than most people do by sitting on their phones scrolling Instagram between sets. So IMight as well get something done. Now, about neck flexion. Your neck is probably a delicate structure, but it doesn't need to be. Think about how robust and strong a wrestler's neck is from fighting so much resistance in all directions. Since I'm not a wrestler, I started very light with neck flexions and neck extensions. As it gets easier, my first step was not just adding weight per se. I just used less hands on the eccentric part, the lowering part. And the next progression has been just barely touching the plate at the top of the movement. It's very easy to calibrate the difficulty on these by using more or less of your hands. After squats, I do single leg Romanian deadlifts. I'm using these fat bells, which are so perfect for this movement because they're not as big and cumbersome as heavy dumbbells can be. When I do these, I prefer the weight to be held on the same side as the leg being worked. So here I'm doing my right leg, weight's in my right hand. My balance is best this way. When I first started doing these, I had some soreness in my hamstrings, as expected. But I also had soreness at the top of my glutes and my love handles, my obliques, which was just due to me fighting that twist. It's an excellent movement, in my opinion. I do 2 to 4 sets of 8 to 15 reps per leg. Now, these are supposed to be supersetted with dumbbell lateral raises, which I am ashamed to say I didn't realize that I forgot to do until later on this day. I was distracted by the camera, I think, you know, being a YouTuber and all. And it's ironic that I forgot this part because it sticks out like a sore thumb. Dumbbell lateral raises on a lower body day? What kind of anarchy is this? Let me tell you. It makes sense and it feels right. It is a great way to hit some shoulders when my upper body's not tired. So rather than tacking it on at the end of a 90-minute upper body session, I can just put it in with my lower body day. It's a great way to increase my shoulder trening frequency. Rather than dumping 12 sets of shoulder on one day per week, you know, why not do 4 sets 3 times per week? Powerlifters will bench 4 to 5 times per week to increase frequency and quality of their bench session. They wouldn't put 4 to 5 bench variations on one day. Same sort of concept here. Now the last superset of this lower body day is sandbag tosses or clen pulls. I typically rotate this movement every month. Right now I'm doing these one-motion stone loads with this rubber Atlas stone. It's an exercise that incorporates triple extension. Stone loads are like an extreme deficit deadlift. Since your knuckles are on the ground, hamstrings are fully stretched. And at the top of the movement, I'm thinking about cracking a walnut between my butt cheeks. And you also get some added isometric grip work while squeezing the stone. I do 2 to 3 sets of 6 to 10 reps on those extensions. And then these are supersetted with abs. I'm doinGHere leg raises, 2 to 3 sets of near-max reps. I've been doing these on a decline bench for added difficulty, depending on where I'm working in the gym. While I'm doing these, I try to keep the stretch on the abs and tension on the abs constant. I don't swing my fat legs just to get more reps or to make the reps easier. I actually try to lower my legs and lift my legs with my abs. And my hip flexors, of course, help too. And day 3 is arm day. Arm day opens with a press and a row. However, I recently started opening my arm day with a bicep-tricep superset based on a recommendation from one of BaldOmniMan's recent videos. I have most energy at the start of my workouts, so I'll devote that to direct arm work. If pullovers were my favorite new exercise, preacher curls were probably my least favorite. They are hard because they're so strict and it's just so easy to quit. I am warming up to them, though, and I've actually seen the most improvement in this exercise. So I do preacher curls, 3 sets of 8-12 reps, and I superset that with skull crushers, 3 sets of 6-12 reps. 3-4 sets is prescribed, but I tried doing 4 sets for a couple of weeks and it's just too much for me right now. I start to just go numb and I feel like the extra volume is not doing anything for me other than just exhausting me. So there have actually even been days where 2 sets was enough. And I'm going to keep that extra set, that 4th set, in my back pocket for when I need it. So after these preacher curls, check out these collars. So these are lockjaw collars, probably my favorite pair of collars I've ever used. They even got a magnet on it so you can stick it to the rack when you're not using it. For these skull crushers, I'm actually not lowering the bar to my skull. I bring it behind my head. So you'll notice the bar starts over my shoulder joints and then I slowly reach back and then start the movement overhead. And I keep it overhead. I try to keep my elbows in place using my triceps to move the weight. By moving my elbows too much, I'd be using my lats like a lat pullover that I did on day 1. And that's not what I'm trying to do here. I take the preacher curls and the skull crushers to RPE 10. A big mindset shift for me has been taking arm trening seriously. Taking all the trening seriously. All movements. And not thinking, you know, this is just assistance work or this is just easy isolation work. I'm not in a rehab physical therapy clinic just doing some light band movements. I'm actually trying to build muscle. So I have to try hard. I want to devote the same focus and concentration on bicep trening, shoulder trening, ab trening as a powerlifter does focusing on squat bench deadlift. In fact, these arm days often take longer than my lower body days. And I think that's just due to the fact that I am doing more reps, sometimes more sets than my lower body day. But I also need full rest between sets because these smaller muscles need a minute to catch their breath. Next up is the pressing movement for the day. It has been viking press or push press but it's recently switched to this hammer strength high incline press. I'll do 3 sets of 8 to 12 reps. I like the control and the stability of these hammer strength plate loaded machines. I can push much farther in reps on these machines. When I do a dumbbell incline press my triceps are usually the first to fatigue which is fine, it's not a bad thing. But with this machine my triceps don't limit me as much and I can push my chest and front delts much harder. It's nothing that I overthink but it's just something that I observe and I wouldn't have known it had I not done this for several weeks. The high incline press is superseded with diagonal pulls. A diagonal pull is a cross between a horizontal pull and a vertical pull. That's right. I did get an A in geometry class in high school. So if you think of a seated row that's a horizontal pull and a lat pull down that's a vertical pull. This would be between those two. I'm explaining this because I actually didn't know what a diagonal pull was when I saw it on the program. I thought it was like some one arm cross body pull down thing but I was wrong. So I started out doing the hammer strength high row pull down machine which is similar to a diagonal pull. But I recently started doing these and I really like them. I'm using my knee against the bench to support my body. I'm trying to pull the bar to my chest without heaving and jerking at the start. These are for 3 to 4 sets of 10 to 15 reps. I've got to show you this lat pull down handle. It's mag grips. The handle feels so good in your hands and grip is never a limiting factor with these handles. Normally if you do heavy lat pull downs you might use wrist straps on the bar but I don't feel like I need them with these handles and they just feel so comfortable in your hands. I'm using the medium grip. I also have the wide grip and the close grip attachments. I'd highly suggest them. And do not worry I didn't skip yesterday's dumbbell lateral raises. I just added them in to the next day, this day, to make this giant set. And I did 10 to 15 reps on these. When I'm doing these I'm trying to lift them at my sides and slightly in front of my body. I'm not trying to I'm trying to not use my traps at the top. I am trying to not use a ton of body swing to heave the weight up at the start of the rep. And I'm trying to keep near constant tension on my shoulders. I find that not letting the dumbbells rest at my sides makes this movement more potent. I lower them down to a float, just 1 to 2 inches away from my body. Sometimes towards the end of the set I'll rest, but that's just to squeak out a couple more reps. And finishing off this arms day, I'm doing some body weight dips. Because of the pec, I've been doing these every other week, rotating with just a tricep press down tricep cable press down. I like doing this box set up because I can bring the boxes in tight against my body and I can place my hands parallel to my body, rather than perpendicular to my body, like a traditional bar dip. With parallel hands I'm able to tuck my elbows in my sides kind of like a sphinx push up if you can imagine that. When my hands are perpendicular to my torso, my elbows flare out more and that irritates my pec a little bit. Now I don't have to do dips, I could just drop them from the program. But, I like dips, and so I'm going to do them in some capacity. These dips are 3 max rep sets, which usually ends up being between 15 to 20 reps per set. And these are supersetted with dumbbell hammer curls for 3 sets of 8 to 12 reps. And it's a giant set, the calf movement of choice here is either sled push or calf raises. And I often do a sled push, which is probably not better for hypertrophy, but I'm okay with that. So I intended for this video to cover an entire week of trening, but I've already talked for over 20 minutes, so I'm going to save day 4 and day 5 for the next video. Should be posted within the next 2 days. Thanks for watching and always remember... TREN UN TEN!