Hello, everyone. My name is Alan Thrall. And in this video, I want to talk about my science based routine that perfectly balances lifting weights and running. Should I lift weights before or after my run? Should I run on non lifting days? Should I combine running and lifting on the same day to allow my rest day to be a complete rest day? Should I run on my upper body day? Should I run on my lower body day? What is the minimum rest time between my running workouts 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours? I'm going to explain how I approach all of these burning questions. Last year, I started running more and I took it pretty seriously running in a few 10k and 10 mile races. I am still running to this day, just not competitively. Currently less volume, less intensity than this time last year, less miles and slower. I simply use running as my preferred form of cardio, which I know I should be doing for improved health. Lifting weights alone is not enough. And I realized I don't have to run. I can get my cardio in by riding a bike, rowing, doing Zumba, or doing a trampoline cardio class. I just enjoy the ease and freedom of running. I can do it anywhere, anytime. And my physical fitness roots started with running, so it feels familiar to me. Just to paint a picture of my current routine, I lift weights 5 days per week. Day 1 is upper body. Day 2 is lower body. Day 3 is upper body, arms day. Day 4 is rest day. Day 5 is upper body. Day 6 is lower body. Day 7 is a rest day. For my detailed program, you can check out a YouTube video of me and NaturalHypertrophy on his YouTube channel. The program he wrote for me is in the description of that video. Along with lifting weights 5 days a week, I try to run 3 times per week. Sometimes it's only 2, but more often it's 3 times a week. Running is not as important to me right now as it was last year when I was doing structured runs in preparation for races or while chasing my deadlift mile time test. I followed my running workouts to a T, never missing one. I never missed my goal mileage or goal pace for the day. If I was pressed for time on a particular day, running would come first. In terms of priority, not necessarily chronologically, lifting would come second. Meaning, if I had to shave off some sets in the gym to make time for my running workout, I would. Now this didn't happen often, but sometimes. Right now, lifting is a priority. I will always finish my lifting workout, then jog with any remaining time I have during the day or during the week. With that intro out of the way, let's talk about some science-based running and lifting routines. I'm not going to cite studies, but what I am citing comes from Stronger by Science and the mass articles available online. I would suggest subscribing to that if you aren't already. Basically, it is believed that, if you want to maximize your hypertrophy and strength gains short term, you probably shouldn't do any cardio. However, cardio may be beneficial for size and strength in the long term. The mode of cardio might have different effects on size and strength. Cycling vs running, for example. The difference in muscle fatigue plays a factor. And for what it's worth, while we're on this topic, my runs right now do not tax my legs, because I'm accustomed to it. I'm used to it. I simply do just enough to keep my heart rate elevated, around 140-160 beats per minute, for 20-30 minutes. My legs don't get very tired, if at all. As far as scheduling goes, science says you should probably put your conditioning work on your non-lifting days to minimize any interference between lifting and running, or lifting and conditioning. If you must lift and do conditioning the same day, do conditioning on your upper body day, not your lower body day. And do it after your lifting session, if you care more about lifting. If you must do conditioning on your lower body day, do it at least 6 hours after your lifting session. This is actually pretty similar to the Run Fast Squat Heavy program that I followed last year. I just did Run Fast Deadlift Heavy, and I added my upper body days. So that's it. That is your perfect schedule, if you are a bachelor with all the time in the world to tren. I am not, so I do not follow this to a T. I fit in running when I can. I put my workouts during the week, during the day, when I can. Sometimes that's on upper body days. Sometimes that's on lower body days. Sometimes it's immediately after my lifting session. Sometimes it's 8 hours after my lifting session. Sometimes it's before my lifting session. If I tried to hold strict to the science-based routine, I would probably miss more running sessions than I do now, which is kind of funny. It's ironic that if I was to put in an effort to optimize my running and lifting routine, I would only end up getting worse results, because I would miss a lot of the sessions. Your schedule, what works for you, what allows you to do the thing you're trying to do, is more important than what science suggests. And don't get me wrong, this is not an attempt to bash science. This is not a science-hating video. And I'm not trying to say, look how lame these science nerds are. No, no, no. It is helpful to have some answers and some suggestions. But you should do whatever allows you to consistently do the activity you are trying to do. Even if doing a running workout 6 hours after my lifting session will result in 5% more gains, I'll just eat that 5% over potentially not even doing the run, because the day gets away from me and I don't have time. If I have a 2 hour window of time and my lifting session takes 90 minutes, I'm going to squeeze in my 20-25 minute jog immediately after my lifting session. This reminds me of a time when I would argue about how the low bar squat is better than the high bar squat for these reasons, and I would go on and on and list a bunch of reasons why. When in reality, you should do whichever squat variation allows you to tren the squat hard and frequently. I'm not saying we can't talk about the differences between high bar and low bar squats, but again, do the squat variation that allows you to tren the squat hard and frequently. If the high bar squat bothers your knees and the low bar squat doesn't, who cares if it has 10% morEQuad activation than the low bar squat, and I'm just making that number up. If the low bar squat bothers your back and the high bar squat doesn't, who cares if you lift a little bit less on high bar, at least you can tren the squat without back pain. If the high bar squat forces you to use 10% less weight than the low bar squat, but your back now has 10% less fatigue for deadlifts, that's not a bad thing. If science says this bicep exercise will get you 5% more gains than any other bicep exercise, but it bothers your biceps, adjust, pivot, eat that 5%, use it somewhere else on an exercise that doesn't bother your biceps. Science might suggest that the best time to lift weights is 8 hours after you wake up, but my schedule only allows me to tren in the morning. What am I going to do? Not tren? Try to force my trening session 8 hours after I lift just to optimize my results, but I only end up skipping the session because I just don't have time? This is my answer anytime someone asks me about when they should fit running into their routine. Whenever you have the time and energy, don't worry about the small percentage bumps you might get by optimizing your routine if you don't already have all your ducks in a row, because most of us don't. If you're trening for the Olympics, and every set, rep, calorie, sip of water, minute of sleep is perfect, then yes, you probably should follow these science-based guidelines. But don't try to fit a square peg into a round hole if it just ain't going to work. Thanks for watching, and always remember... tren ON TIME!