 Iлюлюлюлю,люлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлюлю on my Instagram quite a while ago. I already talked about two of the top three reasons. First one being a lack of time. Second one being unhealthy eating habits. And the third reason for not achieving your health and strength goals, lack of motivation, which was actually the most common reason or the most popular reason listed. So this video is not meant to be a motivational video. Even if it was, even if I wanted to try and motivate you, that's not going to last very long. You've heard it said before, you don't need motivation. You need discipline. So anyways, it's just not that type of video. Instead, I'm going to give you some pieces of advice as well as maybe helping you change your perspective. First piece of advice that I have for you, ask yourself what exercises or what physical activity you genuinely enjoy doing. Are you attracted to barbell training, powerlifting? Do you like weightlifting? Do you like strongman? Do you like crossfit? Do you like using dumbbells or kettlebells? Maybe you really like lifting on machines. Maybe you like doing cardio on the Stairmaster. Or you like running and lifting. Maybe you like going on hikes. Whatever you enjoy doing, give yourself permission to do more of that. Now more than ever with all the Instagram accounts and YouTube accounts, everyone is telling you what you should be doing. This is what I did, so this is what you should be doing. And we forget to take into account the importance of doing what you actually want to do. We're always talking about what's optimal. If you want this, you have to do this. I've made plenty of videos talking about what your program should look like, what exercises you should and shouldn't be doing in the gym. When the truth is, you should probably be doing more of what you enjoy doing. So I know this sounds all touchy-feely, but hear me out. I'm not saying you're going to be motivated to go to the gym every single day. There is a certain level of discipline that you have to uphold because, again, you're not going to be motivated to train every single day. So sometimes you're just going to have to suck it up and do it anyway. But if you already aren't excited about going to the gym, that's one barrier. That's one hurdle that you have to get over. If you're doing a program in the gym that you don't particularly like or maybe that you hate or dread, that's another barrier. That's another hurdle. If that program is really difficult and you know it's going to take a lot of physical effort and a lot of mental effort to go do that program, that's another hurdle. You are just setting yourself up for failure or maybe setting up your client for failure if you're programming this. You can knock down some of those hurdles or barriers by doing a program that you actually kind of enjoy, maybe one that doesn't require so much time, effort and energy. So the only hurdle you have to jump over is, nah, I don't really feel like going to the gym. But I get to do this today and I'm kind of looking forward to it. So we'll do that. Or I get to do this today and it's not particularly hard. I just need to go plug in my time in the gym, get in, get out, and get on with life. Greg Knuckles has talked about something in the past that I really like and I've talked about it myself in some of my videos. But he talked on a podcast about the longevity of bro bodybuilders or just bros in the gym. These guys who come into the gym, usually with their friends, they like to do some bench press, maybe some curls, go for a pump. And they enjoy going to the gym. They're with their friends and they're doing things that they like doing. And they're consistent. They come into the gym time and time, week after week, day after day. Again, because they just enjoy doing what they're doing. And I think there's something that can be said about that. Maybe comparing that to someone who is a beginner and they're hyper specific, doing this optimal powerlifting program that maybe they don't particularly enjoy, but they've been told, this is optimal. This is what you need to be doing. If you're doing anything else, you're wasting your time. Don't float around the gym like these bodybuilding bros. I'm not saying one is right and the other is wrong. It's just something to consider. Maybe there is something to be said about going to the gym and just doing what you enjoy and how that can lead to longevity or at least consistency in the gym. So if you enjoy running and lifting weights, do both. If you like rock climbing, swimming, mountain biking, hiking and lifting, work all those in your routine. Even if someone says it's not optimal for a powerlifting program, incorporating more exercises or activities that you enjoy also helps you avoid mental burnout so that you're not doing the same mundane thing and it kind of breaks up some of the monotony. Personally, I've been running twice a week for the past couple months and I really look forward to it because it's something different. I'm not just in the gym lifting weights. My workouts are shorter. I feel good after the workout. The runs don't take very long. So I look forward to those workouts versus a longer, slower weightlifting session. But there are times where I like to slow down, take my time and lift really heavy weights. So I think having that variety keeps things fresh in my routine. My high school football coach would encourage all the football players to play other sports during the offseason. In wintertime, go wrestle. In the springtime, play baseball, run track and field. He didn't want us to just specialize in football and only football 365 days out of the year. One, I think he knew that it would keep us out of trouble and it would keep us off the couch playing video games all offseason. But he knew that playing other sports was going to make us a better football player. And if he did shove football down our throats 365 days a year, we would probably lose interest or get burned out. So by playing other sports, our interest for each sport was higher. Dude, I've been going to the gym three times a week for the past five years and I have not seen much progress at all. I don't look any different. I'm really not any stronger than I was five years ago. I'm not seeing a whole lot of improvement or progress. Why am I putting so much time, energy, and effort into something that's really not giving me anything in return? I've heard this before and I totally get it. I completely understand. Lifting weights has a number, and exercising, has a number of health benefits beyond just seeing the numbers on your barbell bench press increase. But I'm not going to talk about all those health benefits. Rather, I'm just going to give you maybe a little bit different perspective. And I'll admit up front, it is not very motivating, but it's what I often think about. So let's say you're 25 years old, you started lifting weights at 25, and 10 years later, you're 35 years old, you really haven't increased your barbell numbers a whole lot, and you don't look very much different. What was the point of all that, 10 years wasted? I don't think so. Imagine if 10 years ago when you were 25, you decided to not lift weights or quit within your first year of lifting weights and exercising. Imagine where you'd be now, 10 years later, had you done nothing. You'd be a lot further back. So even if you can't see a whole lot of measurable progress, think of it as just staying one step ahead of father time. We don't always get better with age. So let's take that same scenario. You and a buddy are both 25 years old, and you exercise and lift weights regularly, and you maintain your body weight for the next 10 years. But your buddy, maybe after the first year, by the time he's 26, he's gained 5 pounds, something that he might not even notice. It's very subtle, especially if he's not checking his weight on a scale. He doesn't even know he gained 5 pounds. The next year, it gains another 5 pounds. The third year, it gains another 5 pounds. Suddenly, 10 years later, he's 50 pounds heavier or 50 pounds overweight. And he'll blame it on, well, you know, it's hard getting old. These things don't happen overnight. It's an accumulation of small decisions you make over this long period of time. And if you make better decisions, like exercising, going to the gym, and lifting weights, I think you're really setting yourself up, setting your future self up for success. That's it. I hope you found this three-part series helpful. Until next time, always remember, TEN ON TIME! Nice. I'll get ready, set, go. Good. Nice, man. Come on. Keep going. You got it. All right, go ahead, put it down. No, no chance. No? I know I could've got a few more heat, but there's no way I can flip it.