Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall here at Untamed Strength Gym in Sacramento, California. Welcome back to part two. Part one was posted last week. I'll put it in the i-card above. This is where I review your lifts that were sent to me. And that's it. Let's get to it. So Chris, Chris squats 185 for five. He says that he's never been able to squat more than 225 for seT3. Whenever he works with weight above 185, he ends up with some moderate back pain the next day. So we asked for lighter weight, higher reps. All right. So first video, uh, as I'm watching this, I'm not seeing a whole lot that needs to be corrected right away, but I did, uh, I was immediately drawn to your feet and your stance, even from this, uh, rear oblique video. I, uh, I thought his stance looks like it's too narrow. And, um, when I'm looking at your feet, it looks like at the bottom, your feet want to roll in. And the bottom position of your squat just looks very uncomfortable. Uh, not very strong. So this was confirmed when I went to your video from the front. So thank you for sending that or taking that video from the front. Your stance is too narrow. So squatting with a narrow stance just makes squatting in general, a little bit more difficult for most people. If I was to stand on this chair that I'm sitting on and try to squat down in depth, it'd be really difficult just because I'm standing on this little tiny Island. So widen your base and it will usually take care of the rest of the squat. So for you in particular, your knees want to come in and they want to come closer to each other. I think that going with a slightly wider stance and driving your knees out. So keeping your knees out the whole time down and up, I think is going to benefit you. Your squat's going to feel stronger. And I don't know if this is the cause, but oftentimes when someone squats with a too narrow of a stance, when their stance is narrow and their toes are more forward or their knees are more forward, their, the top of their thighs is going to push into their midsection at the bottom. When you're squatting down and you have something pushing into your midsection, it's, it's getting rid of some of that rigidity in your midsection and it can cause your back to round. Not to say that, uh, you know, your back rounding a little bit when you squat is terrible because it kind of happens regardless of how hard you try not to let it happen. But if you are experiencing some back pain, it could be that you're just having to relax your lower back at the bottom of the squat because the top of your thighs keep pushing into your stomach. So widen your stance, just a hair, point your toes out. You look like you already have, it looks like you already have your toes out, but push your knees out in the same direction as your toes. That'll free up a little bit of space for your midsection to go down between your legs and not push on the top of your thighs. Big breath, brace your midsection hard. This is especially helpful for people who have got a big front porch. You don't have one, but uh, when you got a big front porch in the way, push your knees out so your front porch can sit down there. This is also, I'll add since I'm already talking about it, this is also a cue that I often give bigger folks when they deadlift. Push your knees out to get them out of the way so you can set your back and take a big breath into your belly. So that's what I would say, man. Um, a little bit wider stance, drive your knees out hard. Everything else looks pretty good. Next video is Marvel conventional deadlift, 359 pounds for four reps. Okay. So a few things here. So I had to actually look back and see if this, if you label this as a stiff leg deadlift, but no, it's a conventional deadlift. That first rep, especially your legs are fairly straight, which is okay. It's just something I noticed. You're bending your knees a little bit more on the subsequent reps. So maybe that first rep, your legs were just a little bit too straight. Um, your grip, I don't know if this is a, an issue. I don't know if you're doing it on purpose, but you have one, your supinated hand, your right hand, you have your thumb around your finger and on your left hand, you're going with a thumbless grip. I think that thumb around is always a stronger grip for any pulling movements because your thumb is there as a last resort for when your hands open up, your thumb's going to hold that in place. Sometimes this is true in strongman for like farmers carries. Sometimes people do prefer a thumbless grip because you can hook your hand a little more and use more forearm. It's not as much squeezing muscles. So maybe you do that on, on purpose, but maybe you're not even aware of it. So I bring it to your attention. Um, that doesn't need to change. It's just something I wanted to mention. Now, the next thing is your lockouts. So you need to, especially that first rep was not locked out. Stand up fully, lock your knees out, lock your hips out, bring your hips forward into the bar and stand up tall with your chest. Your subsequent reps look good. Just that first one. And oftentimes we'd get into this, uh, got to finish the set or got to get to the last rep. That's the one that matters the most. So you goT4 in your head and you just one, two, three, and then you start locking your rep out. So take it one rep at a time, especially if you're a power lifter, you're wearing, or you're, uh, you're using calibrated plates. So I assume you're a power lifter. Make every rep look identical. Uh, the next thing I'll say, this isn't, doesn't really apply to you, but as far as the lockout, I often see people stop their lockout short. I often see men stop their lockout short. So their butt is still back. Like they're sticking their butt out. They don't want to commit to bringing their hips forward. And it's usually not usually, but sometimes it's because they don't want to nut check themselves. If you do have that problem, I would suggest if you're not already using a very narrow stance and a very narrow grip, maybe you're using more of a shoulder width grip, try narrowing your grip and that'll make your arms artificially longer, which may be the bar will finish a little below your nut sack. So you're not nut checking yourself. But, uh, regardless of all that, you still need to lock your reps out. Um, I think that's it, my man. These are strong, strong reps. Oh yeah. How could I forget? So on that second rep, second rep, right? One and yeah. On that second rep, you set the bar down and it drifts away from you. Do not move the barbell. So don't let the barbell kip out away from you. Don't let it roll out away from you. But what I was saying before that was you're doing a pretty good job of getting the bar back down in the same position. Um, so this looks good so that you can be consistent with your repetitions. Oh, that's another thing, man. I'm not done. I'm not even halfway done. Stop. Don't let go of the bar. This is for everyone. Grab the barbell, hold the barbell for the entire set. Do not relax your hands. Don't take a break as the bars on the ground. Don't fidget your hands around unnecessarily fidgeting for for no reason. Keep your hands on the bar. Stay locked in and pull your four reps. It's just like bench press. Do your four reps. Keep your hands on the bar and squeeze the bar as hard as you can. White knuckles the whole time. Don't at the top, you know, fidget your fingers around. Same with the squat. Same with the deadlift. Stay locked in. Do all four reps. Keep your feet in place. Keep your hands in place. Other than that, good reps, my man. Next up is Jeffrey. Jeffrey's going to squat 375 for five reps. Uh, okay, here we go. Let's see it, Jeffrey. At first glance, the squat looks good. You're squatting to depth. Good, strong power out of the hole. You're, you're blasting through that sticking point. Uh, each rep looks identical. If I lined up all five of these reps, wouldn't tell much difference. Maybe the last rep is slightly slower than the others. There's one thing that I want to comment, uh, about your squat and I'll say right away, it's not even necessarily a bad thing. I think that, uh, you know, five years ago I would have said this has to be fixed, but it doesn't necessarily have to be fixed because I think you use this actually to your advantage. Um, so it's up to you whether you want to, whether you want to do something about it, but notice on your squat here, let me get back to the start. So you sit this, uh, uh, uh, kind of a lower bar squat. It doesn't look extremely low, but you sit your hips back, back, back, and then you're, you bounce your knees forward at the bottom. So this would be called knee slide, but, uh, watch here with me, the cadence back, back, back, knees bounce forward again, hips go back, back, back, knees bounce forward. And what that can do for some people is it affects their balance. Hips go back, back, back. So weight goes towards your heels. Then you bounce your knees forward and that's countered immediately with knees bouncing back and hips shooting back. A lot of times people will get stuck in this, uh, good morning position when they bounce their knees forward and then slide their butt back. You're not really doing that. I think that you're using this to your advantage because you're getting a lot of spring out of your squat. Because you're getting a lot of spring out of that, that knee bounce. So you're sitting back in your hips, holding your knees back, cocked and ready to go. They smash forward. And that kind of propels you out of the bottom. And then you drive up and you do a good job of maintaining your position on the way up. Despite this little bit of a deviation and balance. Typically, if I was teaching a beginner and you're not a beginner. So again, there's some like personal preference and all of this stuff, what works well for me, what feels good for me, that's fine. But if I was teaching a beginner, what I want to see is your hips and knees should bend simultaneously. So you're bending at the hips, which is bending over. You're bending at the knees, which is bending your knees and letting them go forward. Both of those things should happen at the same time. So your hips and knees, your knees should go forward, your hips should go back. And then maybe halfway down, a little more than halfway, they're set in position and you just go straight down and then you come straight back up. I don't want those things to happen independently or one after the other. I don't want your hips to go back and your knees to not bend and then your knees bend. Your hips and knees should break simultaneously. I know this is kind of difficult to show with my hands, but hips and knees move at the same time. So what I would cue for you, if you were doing this squat with, you know, 95 pounds and you're a beginner, I would tell you, you need to bend your knees sooner. The second you start to squat, you need to let your knees come forward and they should be in their forward most position halfway down so that your hips and knees can go straight down and straight back up. There's not this shift in forward to back. That's going to be the only cue I have for you. Other than that, your squat looks good. Like I said, I'll say it one more time. I love repeating myself. I think you're using this to your advantage to get a little bit of pop out of the bottom, which is okay. But if you wanted to, if it is causing you problems, maybe with heavier weight or one rep max, you feel like I always shoot my hips back and I get pitched forward. This is the reason why your knees are bouncing forward at the bottom. Next up is Chris. This is a squat, 120 kilos for sets of three reps. All right. So the first thing I noticed right off the bat, right as you're walking this weight out is this dude has got some long legs. You got the long leg, short torso, and you can tell that by, I think the low camera angle exaggerates it, but this is where the belt's at in your body. It's like threEQuarters of the way up and then the rest of thEQuarter left over is your upper body. So your legs are pretty long. Now, if I was just to see a picture of you or I was just to see you walking out in public, and actually I do this sometimes. I look at people and I imagine in my head what their squat looks like. People with long legs and relatively short torso, they are going to have to bend over a lot when they squat, if they're going to hit depth. Because they have such long legs, they can't just sit straight down with a vertical torso because that would demand their knees to travel so far forward over their toes that it's just unrealistic to expect your ankles to bend that much or to flex that much. So long legs, shorter torso, you're gonna have to bend over a lot. Think basketball player, maybe like disproportionately long basketball player or tall basketball player is gonna have to bend over a lot when they squat. On the other side of that, someone with a very long torso and very short stumpy legs is going to squat like this, down and up, down and up. If you can imagine like an Oompa Loompa squatting, they're not gonna have to bend over very much, just down and up. This is the ideal build for Olympic weightlifters because they have to catch the bar in the front squat position and they want to stay very vertical as they go down and up. So with all that said, you're gonna have to bend over a lot when you squat and you do bend over quite a bit when you squat. I can see how low you carry the bar on your back and I think it's in the right position because you have to bend over quite a bit and if you were to put the bar in higher, it would cause you to be on your toes. This squat looks good. The only reason I just kind of want to talk about differences in your body types, differences in body types and how that affects squat mechanics, but what I'm seeinGHere is the one thing I can offer you is to leave your knees forward. So if I pause this at the bottom just to see how far forward your knees have to travel. So your knees, I can't see your foot, the bag's in the way, but your knees are already several inches over your toes. So that's about the furthest that your ankles are going to let your knees go, the furthest your ankles are going to bend. So your knees are already pretty far over your toes. There's nothing more you can really do. This is a good bottom position, but if I were to put the cursor right there, a mark right there where your knees are, I want you to keep them forward out of the bottom just for a little bit longer. You'll notice they do scoop back, which means you're driving with your hips. Try to think about hips going up, not shooting back at all. So your hips go back on the way down, but as out of the bottom they should go up and your knees should stay forward just a hair longer. This is going to feel more difficult for you without a doubt. This position you're squatting now is your strongest position because you are able to leverage your back. But if you want to build up some more leg strength, you're going to have to use your legs more, use your quads more, use your knees more. Stay in your knees. Ripito will say stay in your hips, keep your hips back. I'm telling you to stay in your knees. So I'll let this go. So notice how your knees do scoop back out of the bottom. Try to keep them forward just a little bit longer. Don't obsess over it, but try to keep your knees forward a little longer and I think that will help your squat overall, especially in the long run. So that's it man. Alex, both videos of me squatting around 195 pounds working up to a top set of 405. Both videos of me at around, oh okay, he weighs 195 pounds squatting 405. Can you guess which video is older? Let's guess. I have not seen these yet. Okay, very good squat. Very good squat. Is this 405 or those 55s? Okay, they're 45 pound plates. Is this guy trolling me right now or am I really going to see, I'm going to be able to tell the difference here. Okay, so red plates is hopefully newer because that was much faster. All right, what are you sending me form checks for, dude? Wasting time. Wasting everyone else's time. Those were excellent squats. Well done. One year apart. Yeah, I'm going to say the red one is your newest one because it just moves so much faster. I hope I'm right. Thanks for the videos, dude. I was just messing with you. You're not wasting anyone's time. Next video is from Patrick. It's a squat. It looks like this whole video is going to be squats. On that walkout, take your time. Don't be so antsy to take so many steps. Overall, the squat looks good. I think that your depth is good. Your bar position is good. Breathing, bracing. I can tell you're focused on this set. Your intensity is good. The only thing I'm seeing, which I've already mentioned a few times, so I'll only cover briefly here. Your hips are driving back. Your knees are pushing back. What's happeninGHere is, out of the bottom, you're driving through your heels. Your hips scoop back and they rise a little bit faster than your shoulders, especially on these last reps. Hips move back. Knees move back. Shins get vertical. Again, that's the product of you pushing through your heels. I want you to think about pushing your toes down. As you stand up, push through your toes. It's not necessarily going to make the bar speed move faster, but it's going to help use your quads a little bit more and help you maintain position, which is going to take time to ingrain into your squat pattern. You need to push your toes down. If anyone else has this problem where your knees shoot back and your shins get vertical, push your toes into the ground. Let your knees stay forward so that you're not letting your hips get out of the way from you. Your hips are squishing out from underneath the barbell. Next up is Brian. Brian sent 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 videos. If your video does not get looked at, you can blame Brian. Send him a piece of your mind down in the comments section below. First up, we've got a 405 deadlift for three reps. Man, this is a pet peeve of mine. I'm going to give you a piece of my mind here, Brian. Why do people let go of the bar and stand up and rest in between reps? You're doing three singles at this point. You're not doing a set of three. This is doing nothing for you to let go of the bar and stand up other than stalling. This little mini rest period between reps, it's just a pet peeve of mine. I guess it doesn't really make that much of a difference, but I just don't like seeing it. If you can't leave your hands on the bar and do three consecutive reps, then you can't do it for three reps. Leave your hands on the bar. This looks like you missed the last rep here. Oh, no. You're going to try again. Yeah. A set of three is leaving your hands on the bar, doing three reps. Dang. Good on you for getting that third rep. All right. Let's look at some actual technique cues. Notice the bar drift forward as you stand up. The bar is drifting forward. What that tells me is your shoulders are too far in front of the bar. So when I'm doing a deadlift, your shoulders should be slightly in front of the bar. So from the side, the barbell should actually be right under your armpit. So you're deltoid. Your shoulders should be slightly in front of the bar. If you are too far in front of the bar and your arms are actually reaching back towards the barbell, when you pull the bar, it's going to want to swing out away from you. And that's what's happeninGHere. I think that it looks like your knees and your hips are in a good position. So I don't think you need to sit your hips down more or bend your knees more. All of that looks good. You have the right joint angles. The only thing that needs to happen is you need to shift back at the ankle. So if you just stand up tall and you shift forward on your toes, you shift back on your heels, that little bit of rock, change in balance. That's what I'm referring to. So before you pull, you need to just rock back a little bit. You need to bring your shoulders back a little bit closer to the barbell so they're not so far out in front of them. So far out in front of the bar. And that's the reason why the barbell swings out at the start and then you pull it right back. Swings out at the start and then pull it right back. So that's what I'm seeinGHere for this first deadlift video. And leave your hands on the bar and do three reps. Moving on to your squat. 375. Yeah that was good. One rep. That was good. Well done Brian. You got another video. 315 for five. 315 for five. I just saw your 375 for one. It looked good. If these look the same, then we can just carry on and not say much about your squat. Good work. Good work. So balance is good. Depth is good. Back angle is good. Your hips and knees are bending at the same time. Your knees are pretty much staying in position at the bottom. There's a slight bit of hip grab. Those are good squats. Nothing to say about your squats. Well done. 425 for one. Okay. Let's take a look at that. Oh yeah. Nice. Good squat. Except, well, you are using the rack incorrectly. You're outside of the rack for some reason. That power rack has these things called safeties to catch the bar if you were to fail. Just kidding. I don't know why I'm ripping into Brian so much. I think it's because you sent eight videos. That's why I'm ripping at you. Power clens. All right. I'm not an Olympic athlete. I'm not an Olympic athlete. I'm not an Olympic weightlifting coach. Two things that I'm noticinGHere. You need to sit your hips down lower and bend your knees more. The deadlift position and the clen position are not identical. There's a reason there's something called a clen deadlift where you sit your hips down low, your torso is more vertical, your knees are a little more forward. Because it is a sub-maximal pull, you don't have to get yourself into this perfect position to pull the bar in a straight line. So I think that using your legs at the start. Your legs, squatting the weight. You want to think more about squatting the weight at the very start. Not so much about bending and pulling the weight. So your hips are a little too high. Your shoulders are too far over the bar. And then you're bending your arms prematurely. You need to think about keeping your arms straight for longer. So actually flex your triceps. Keep your arms long and straight for a little bit longer. Your arms should be long and straight. Once the bar gets to your mid-thigh and you jump, then you bend your arms to get under the bar. So you want to think about straight arms to jump the weight up. Bend your arms to get yourself back under the barbell. Those are the only two cues that I'll give you. Your hips being too high and then your arms bending too early. All right, so Brian sent a video just for laps. Here he is squatting at Wichita Falls Athletic Club in Wichita Falls, Texas with Coach Ripto. Does coach have like a afro pick in his pocket there? All right, so I've been in your shoes. I've been a starting strength coach. I've been to the seminar. I've been coached by Rip. And I don't think that this is... I think that the hip drive cue is really exaggerated here. And I think Ripto's old videos, old coaching videos and the first and second edition of Starting Strength. This isn't how he coaches hip drive, but he's coaching it here to just be way too exaggerated. You're pushing your butt back. You're scooping your hips back out of the bottom, which is driving your knees back and it's shifting your weight onto your heels. In fact, in his book, he's got an illustration of a chain hanging straight down onto the hips and it's pulling the hips up. So the hip drive is pulling the hips up. At no point are the hips being pulled back, but you are certainly in this video pushing your butt out, pushing your butt out behind you and then lifting it up. And you can see as you push your butt back, your shoulders drop. So the barbell drops. So that hip drive is not being... that force is not being pushed into the barbell. So even Rip, I think he's exaggerating this cue. Okay. Okay, you've got a press video. Might as well take a look at it. We've looked at all these so far. I'm assuming you're going to do the press 2.0. I haven't seen this video yet. You're going to do the press 2.0 and balance the hips, which is fine. From this angle, it looks like your elbows are dropped a little too much. You might benefit from bringing your elbows up a little bit. When you press the barbell, it has to be pushed back. And if your elbows are down, the barbell is just going to straight up or even out in front of you. So getting the elbows a little bit in front of the bar will help you as you lean back to press the bar back overhead. But I can't really tell at this angle, but it looks like even that last rep, you get under your toes because the bar is way out here. So you're getting under your toes. You got to bring that bar back to your neck, bring the elbows up so the bar is pushing back a little more because you're getting out in front of you and that's why you keep bouncing under your toes here. All right, Brian, thanks for the videos. So I'm going to end it there because this video is about all the time I have for it. Still got plenty of videos to review. I'll make a few more videos, probably release them weekly. Thanks for watching and always remember, TRY IT ON TIME!