Hey, everyone. I'm Alan Thorall here at Untamed Strength Gym in Sacramento, California, and in this video, I'm talking about RPE, Rate of Perceived Exertion. RPE is under attack. People are trying to cancel RPE. Will Rattel just made a video talking about maybe some of the pitfalls of RPE, his criticisms of RPE, his elaborated thoughts on the subject. So go check out that video. It's a good video. It will make some of the things I talk about in this video make more sense. But anyways, after watching that video, I was TO'd. Man, I am ticked off. How dare he criticize my precious RPE. And so anyways, I've, in a fit of rage, I wrote down some notes, and I'm going to make this video here. I wanted to make a video talking a little bit about my updated view of RPE. This was a perfect opportunity to do so. So here we go. The first thing I'll say is I don't care if you don't like RPE. RPE is not for everyone. If you prefer percentage-based trening, or you like maybe some sort of block periodization where you kind of just increase weight in waves up to a peak, maybe you like just paying for a coach to tell you exactly how much weight to lift. If you open up a new program and see RPE on it and say, ew, it doesn't bother me. It doesn't offend me. After Will made that video, I liked watching it, and I liked listening to things he had to say because it gets me to question why I use RPE. Why I use RPE in my own trening. I use RPE with my online clients. I just wrote a program, strongman strength program. There's RPE and percentages in it. So it gets me to just think about why I use RPE, how I view RPE, and maybe some of the applications for it. And so I thought the video was good. It's good to have a discussion about this stuff. So let's get started. And it's a tool for communicating to a population. Like I just mentioned, I wrote a program, and so it's used to communicate. That's how I use RPE, communicate the intensity with a population. And RPE does not have aromasingular use, like percentages might have aromasingle use. You're doing 70% of a one rep max for 10 reps. Black and white, pretty straightforward. RIR, RIR1, RIR2, RIR3. You have one, two, or three reps left in the tank. Now RPE can be used in conjunction with percentages and with RIR. There is an RPE percentage chart to say five reps at RPE8 is going to be roughly 81% of your one rep max. You could also use RPE and RIR interchangeably to say RPE9 is one RIR. And that's one of the criticisms of RPE is it's basically RIR, just inverted on a 10 point scale. You know, what's up with these fitness influencers just rebranding, making up their own new fancy acronym just to sound like they know what they're talking about. You're just rebranding RIR. And I understand that. I understand where they're coming from when people say that, but that's not the only use for it. One thing that Will talks about is the RPE scale doesn't make a whole lot of sense because it's a one through 10 scale supposedly, but we only use six through 10. So rendering it to be a five point scale and then we use decimals like 7.5 RPE. So you're making a 10 point scale again. So why not just use a five point scale? It's a 10 point scale. It doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. And that's a good point. But you know, rarely do you see RPE3 prescribed to a set of five reps. He mentions the Borg scale, which is a six through 20 scale where RPE originates from. And there is a modified Borg scale of one through 10 that can be used to kind of view RPE as well. I'll post it on this video here. But there is a one through 10 scale that you could use if you wanted to. So I've mentioned that RPE does not have aromasingular use. So it can be used more than it can be used with RIR. It can be used with percentages, but that's not it. So what the heck is it then? I view RPE as a tool or as a way to communicate intensity or effort in relation to maximum effort. It can be used to quantify the difficulty of trening. Contrary to popular belief, RPE is not a program. It's not a coach. It doesn't do all of the work for you. It's not AI like, you know, hey, chat GPT. I got RPEA today. Tell me what to lift. It's not, it doesn't really work like that. Again, it is used to quantify or to note the overall intensity of that session. Again, it is used as a way to quantify the difficulty of something. When most people go into the gym, most people watching videos like these, when you go into the gym, you're not completely clueless about what weight you're going to lift. If I said, hey, come lift with me. We're going to do some heavy sets of five today. You'd have an idea of like, okay, sets of five, you know, 225, maybe up to 250. You have an idea of what you're going to lift. We're going to do heavy singles today. You know, you're not going into the gym thinking, I don't know. Is it going to be 100? Is it going to be 200? Is it going to be 300 pounds? Who knows? Tell me what to lift. You might say, all right, heavy single, 350. Maybe I got 365 in me today. You have an idea of how much weight you're going to lift. And RPE is just used to calibrate exactly how much weight to lift. Maybe not even exactly, just roughly what weight to lift. And let's say you do have no idea what weight you're lifting. You have absolutely no idea. Hey, today we're doing a back squat. I have no idea what I can do. So this would be a total beginner. I am a personal trener and I do work with tons of beginners. And I use RPE. It is the best way, I think, to figure out how much weight they should lift. Obviously, I can't take a 100 max of a total beginner. And so when I work with them for the first time to figure out what weight to use, I don't necessarily say, okay, let me explain the rate of perceived exertion and tell me what your RPE is. Was that a 7 or 7.5? I don't talk like that. All I do is I ask them after that set, I say, what would you rate that difficulty? How hard was that? On a scale from 1 to 10, 1 being like you're walking in the park and 10 being that was a lot of effort. That was maximum effort. I tried my very best. That was as hard as I could go. And usually they'll say, I don't know, it was like a 5 out of 10, I guess. I'm like, okay, cool. Let's add some weight then. So we add weight. I wait to see if the intensity goes up. What would you say that set was? 1 out of 10. Oh, that was a little harder. That was like a 7 or 8 out of 10. I'm like, okay, cool. Let's do a few sets at that weight. So it is used as a way to just communicate how difficult was that for you. I'm not saying, did you have two reps more or three reps more? Because a lot of times they don't know. But even still, it is not just a way to communicate to beginners, people who have been lifting can understand this concept. Here's a real world example. So I have, oh, my wife is texting me. Oh, shoot. I forgot today's Valentine's Day. So here's a real world example. I have worked in the past 12 years. I've worked with a lot of people who do beginner programs like starting strength, strongest five by five, especially when I was a starting strength coach, worked with tons of people who do three sets of five starting strength. And a lot of times they will find out quickly what their five reps at RP10 is, what their five reps at maximum effort is. So when they come to me for help, they're usually stuck on the program, they're plateauing, they're failing lifts, they're deloading, they're working back up and just failing the same weight over and over again. And so this is kind of a good way in to introduce this concept of RPE to them. And a real world example that I recently had, this guy, a couple of times he got to 245 on the squat. And he would get the first set of five and then he would fail the second set, fail the third set. So he's like, I don't know what to do. And first I want to make sure he's not doing anything totally wild, like, you know, off the charts. Like, are you resting? How long are you resting between your sets? If he said 30 seconds, I'd be like, all right, let's slow down. But no, I rest like four or five minutes. His form looks fine. He's not doing anything crazy. So I'm thinking, okay. So I asked him, I said, that 245 for five reps, what would you say that was in terms of difficulty? 10 out of 10, I'm sorry, one through 10, 10 being maximum effort. No question, that's a 10 out of 10. I literally could not do any more, couldn't do another rep, couldn't add any more weight. It was like max effort, damn near killed me. I'm like, okay. In my head, I'm like, that's his five reps at RP 10. And I say to him, I'm like, what if we did a few sets of five, but we did it at like an eight out of 10 effort. What weight do you think we should put on the bar? And he was like, without calculating, without percentages or anything, he was like a 215, 225 probably, like an eight out of 10. I'm like, okay, let's start there. I don't even care how accurate that is. It's just a way of him understandinGHow to scale intensity a little bit. So it can be used even for someone who has a good idea of what weight they're going to lift. It's just, it's a way to scale difficulty and trening to kind of calibrate how much weight you should be using today. And that brings me to my next point, that RPE is not just about exact weight on the bar or exact reps in reserve, exact percentages. Sometimes I'll ask a client, what would you say your RPE was for this week of trening? And they're like, 10 out of 10, I barely got the sessions in, IMissed one session. I'm hurting, I'm aching, I can't sleep at night. I'm just flat out done. That never happens, but I'm just giving an example, making up an example. So they would say this week has been like 10 out of 10 trening. It's just way too much. Okay, let's scale it down without asking, you know, about specifics. It's just a way of communicating difficulty and intensity. RPE can also be used for something like a sandbag carry or strongman. So IMight say you're doing a hundred, you're doing a sandbag carries for a hundred feet. I want you to lift, I want you to pick a sandbag that is like a 7 out of 10 difficulty, RPE 7 difficulty. You could even use it for running. Today I want you to run a mile, but I want it to be like a 7 or 8 intensity, RPE 7 or 8 intensity. It doesn't mean you have to go calculate exactly what splits and what time and what pace and what heart rate, none of that. You just give a 7 to 8 out of 10 difficulty. You put forth that much effort. And you could, I guess, calculate the numbers to say, okay, my all out, balls to the wall mile, best time is 8 minutes. If I'm running an RPE 7.5, 7 to 8, I'll shoot for like a 10 minute pace. So you could do that if you want, if you really like numbers. RPE can also be just used to explain that, yeah, your intensity should go up a little bit. So if you looked at a program that said, this week you're doing 5 reps at RPE 7, next week you're doing 5 reps at RPE 8, next week you're doing 5 reps at RPE 9. You know that intensity should go up a little bit week to week. Weight on the bar, not exact percentages of how much it should go up and down, but you know there's a progression week to week in intensity. This is a way that power lifters can communicate. So when someone lifts aromasingle, a power lifter does aromasingle, and they say, that was RPE 8. I'm thinking of one guy in particular I've worked with who would just max out and call it RPE 8. And so I would just talk to him and say, what did that 1 to 8, what did that 525 squat feel like? A 1 to 8, does that feel like an opener? If you were to compete today, does that feel like an opener? No, that's too much. So your opener should feel like one at RPE 8. One at RPE 8 should feel like an opener. One at RPE 9 should feel like a second attempt where you're getting there at the ceiling. One rep at RPE 10 should be used to describe a PR or a third attempt. Did that feel more like an opener or more like a third attempt? That was a third attempt. I don't know how much more I got in me. Okay, if it's a third attempt, we're going to call that one at 10. Also, when I was deep in the trenches of RPE trening and I was power lifting, I was working with Austin Baraki, everything was RPE based, and there were times when I would use RPE, but I wouldn't use it interchangeably with RIR. Here's an example. I would do 495 squat. I'd squat 495 and I'd say, that was pretty solid. That was a good top single. I would say it was RPE 9. Now, I don't think I could have done it for another rep. Don't think I could have doubled it. However, it was not maximum effort. I definitely had 500 in me, maybe 505, maybe even 510. So I'm just using it to say it was a 9 out of 10 effort and I had a little more in me, but it's not to say that I could double it. Anyways, hopefully all of this is not, you're not thinking in your head, oh wow, RPE is a lot more confusing than I thought. No, I'm totally confused about how to use this thing. It's just letting you know that it can be used alongside percentages, alongside reps in reserve, and you could just use it in retrospect. Honestly, if you have a really hard time gauging what a 7 out of 10, 8 out of 10, 9 out of 10 difficulty is. So you might say, okay, I looked at the percentage chart, I'm doing one rep at RPE 8, that's about 92% of my one rep max. So I'll do 92% and if you say, whoa, that was, I grinded my face off doing that. That was way too hard. Okay, was it an RPE 8? No, that was a 10 out of 10. All right, so note that and then just use that as data moving forward. Or I know I keep saying you're overshooting, but maybe you undershoot. Maybe you freaking smoke it and you're like, I could hum a song during that set of five. That was a total cake. All right, maybe it wasn't five reps at RPE 8 then. So maybe boost it up a little bit next week. I think that's all that I have. I'm going to close it there. Also, because I need some water, I'm a little parched. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren on time.