! Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi, Oi Oi, Oi, Oi Oi, Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi Oi a father and time got a little bit tighter is a concept known as adjusting the dial. And I learned this from Dr. John Berardi of Precision Nutrition, and it's an incredibly powerful tool for maintaining momentum and maintaining progress towards goals, even when time gets tight. So what most people do when life gets busy is they stop altogether. They say things like, I'll do it tomorrow, or I'll start fresh next week, or in the new year, or after this vacation, and they stop and start over and over. They never are able to create consistency, and they have a really hard time getting the results that they are after. What I do instead is I adjust the dial. So if you can imagine a dial that goes from 1 to 10, one being like a 10-minute walk or 20 pushups, and a 10 would be two workouts a day, very intense, hard cardio, heavy weights, and let's say a 5 would be like four workouts a week for an hour at the gym. So most people, their dial is at around a 5, right? Four workouts a week for an hour in the gym. And what happens is when they can't get that full hour in, something comes up at work or with their kids or whatever it may be, they just don't do it. Or they say, I'll do it tomorrow, or I'll do it next week. And they don't adjust that dial, right? They just flip the switch right to off. So what I do instead is I adjust the dial down. So if I have a workout plan for that day, and then something comes up with work or with my family, I will adjust the dial down. So instead of doing that one hour long workout, I'll do a shorter workout at home, or I'll go for a walk, or I'll do 10 pushups or 10 pullups in my living room because I have stuff available. I'll just adjust that dial down. And that even works for times when I'm going to have an even busier week or I'm going on vacation. So instead of saying like, you know what, I'm just not going to train at all because this week is really busy, I'll start fresh later, or I'm not going to train at all on this vacation because I don't have access to the equipment I want. I adjust the dial down. So I'll plan out 10, 20 minute body weight routines I can do, or I'll plan on going for some runs if I'm on vacation, getting out on the beach or wherever I may be. And this is a really powerful way to continue to build your momentum. When you adjust the dial and do something rather than nothing, you're going to feel way better. You're just going to be a nicer person to be around. I know when I train, I go from being not nice to be around to very nice to be around. So that is one benefit. But you're also going to build habits and an identity as someone who trains no matter what. And that's the name of the game is consistency and just continued pushing towards what your goals are. And when you're stopping and starting all the time, it's impossible to build momentum and it's impossible to build consistency. So those are the main benefits of adjusting the dial. Are these workouts like a 10 minute workout or a 10 minute walk or 20 pushups going to get you on stage next to Kai Green or turn you into a powerlifting champion? No, but they're going to make you feel better. They're going to allow you to build momentum and they're going to allow you to create an identity as someone who trains and it's going to allow you to make so much more progress in the long run, especially when time gets tight. So next time you think to yourself, I'll do it tomorrow or I'll start fresh next week. Instead, adjust the dial and continue to make progress. If you want to learn more about the strong dad club, you can find me on Instagram at the strong dad club, or you can check out my website at www.thestrongdadclub.com. Thanks. I couldn't agree more with everything that Mark just said, especially the part about feeling good about yourself. I know that when I do even just an abbreviated version of my bigger workouts, I feel good about myself. I feel like I accomplished something rather than getting down on myself because I skipped my workout. I will also say that doing something, scaling back your exercise routine, even scaling way back, is still going to leave you better prepared for times in your life when you can prioritize training, when you can train for that competition or that meet, when you can start focusing more on training and pursuing PRs. You are going to be better prepared if you're doing something now, even if it's just small, rather than doing nothing. I think that if you are consistently moving, you are going to be able to accelerate much faster and much harder than if you were doing nothing. And above all that, the obvious benefits that come from exercising regularly, physical benefit, mental benefit, like I just talked about, feeling good about yourself, as well as the potential performance benefit. That's it. Thanks for watching. Follow Mark's stuff. If you're not already, I'll link it down in the description area below. Always remember, 10 on 10!