Ok, go ahead and do 5 reps. Ok, go ahead and do 5 reps. In this video, I'm going to give you 5 tips that will help you stop overthinking your deadlift setup and stop the unnecessary fidgeting between reps. If it takes you 60 seconds to perform 5 hard reps, pay attention. Number one, don't let go of the bar. Squeeze the bar with your hands for the entire set. Don't relax your grip. The deadlift is a bit different than the other barbell movements because you have the opportunity to fully rest at the bottom. This rest period between reps is opening a window for you to overthink, pause, delay and fidget. Squeezing the bar for the entire set will trick your body into thinking it's bearing the load the whole time without any rest. Number two, perform pause and go reps. You've probably heard of touch and go reps. These are performed by pulling the first rep and then lowering the bar back to the same starting position, tapping the weight on the ground, and going straight into the second rep. This is basically what I want you to do, but I want you to pause the weight on the floor for one second and then go. Get it? Pause and go. This will ensure you are not using any momentum, the plates are bouncing off the platform and the plates are motionless, dead, before lifting the weight. So instead of drop, relax, wiggle your feet around, spirit fingers, run through a checklist in your head, then go, just lower, pause and go. Number three, breathe and brace at the top. Take a deep breath, pull your first rep. Exhale at the top, take a big breath, brace, lower the bar, pause and go. Breathing and bracing at the top means you have one less thing to do at the bottom. Now if you find that you can't hold your breath all the way down and all the way up, lower the barbell faster. If you still need more air, you might be getting fatigued as the set goes on or the rep speed is just really slowing down, a lot of time under tension. You can rapidly breathe and brace at the bottom too. Number four, let gravity pull the bar down. This isn't meant to be an instructional deadlift video, so I'll be brief. Lower the bar in the same path that you picked it up, a straight line, hips first, knees second. Imagine the barbell weighs 1,000 pounds and you were tasked with lowering it under control. Gravity is going to pull the bar straight down. You aren't going to be able to push it around your knees, drop it a few inches from your shins because you don't want the bar to scrape your supermodel legs. No, it's going to go straight down. Let the barbell drop straight down and pull you back into the correct starting position. Imagine that you were doing a Smith machine deadlift. The bar can only travel up and down in a straight line. Your skeleton will self-organize on the way down. Number five, move the barbell. That's right, move the barbell. Not on the first rep, but on the subsequent reps. If you don't follow tip number four and you drop the barbell in a different spot, just set up front of the knees, flush with the front of the arms, then roll the barbell to your shins. On rep one, you set up to the barbell. On rep two and beyond, set the barbell up to you. Stop chasing the bar each rep by shuffling your feet around the platform. I understand if you have hexagonal plates, there's not a great way around this. In this case, it's going to be even more important to control the weight as you lower it. IMight actually perform controlled touch-and-go reps in this scenario. Now, if you're deadlifting on a very damaged platform, maybe it's time to change the platform if it's yours, or you can use some rubber mats under the plates and your feet to minimize the dents. Thanks for watching, and always remember, tren on time.