 arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar So this morning I weighed in at 198.3 pounds and I'm competing in the middleweight division, which goes all the way up to 231 pounds. When I signed up, I was the exact same body weight, 198, 199 pounds. And I made the decision to not gain any weight, even though I could, because I just didn't think it was worth it. And I'm really curious to see how I do overall against all the other competitors that are under 200 pounds. Because if I'm honest with myself, I think the top finishers for the middleweights are probably guys that are maxing out this weight class that came in cutting down to 231 and competing, you know, above 231 after the 24 hour weigh-ins. I really wanted to find some good barbecue while I'm here in Virginia and I found a spot nearby, but damn, they're sold out. That probably means it's good barbecue too. One, because people are eating it. And two, they're not serving leftovers. They're only serving fresh barbecue when they're out, they're out. Headweight men are going to be in these two lengths. No, we'll do. I'll stick headweight men first. Here we go. Charlemagne Corporation Nationals 2021. Day one. Max log, wheelbarrow deadlift, and sandbag toss. The first event's maxed. The first event's maxed. Log, clean and press. Weight starts at 255, 20-pound jumps at 255, 275, 295, and so best attempt wins. Unlimited attempts. One morning's bus. The official is a child and kids who have rolled up. The quality of the long-term, he gets that nervous ball. That was what he did. Once they get that ball to that position, they give it one hand that works up high in order to stabilize. arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar arkadaşlar The log clean and press, 255 and 275. That was my best. Missed 295. I was all over the place with those log cleans, or those log presses. I just couldn't get the log back behind me, and I was chasing it, running forward. But it's whatever. I've got it done. 275. You want to take one of these bad boys home? Wheelbarrow deadlift. Get the best. 670 pounds in hand. And we're ready. To be ready. Here they go, ladies and gentlemen. Let's get behind the folks. Here they go. Let's get behind the folks. Again, this week, all of these ridiculous amount of screens. They will hold back. Come on. Leave yourself until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until you're ready until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until until All right. All please, ready? Challenge ready. Come on, Zach. Come on, team. And here we go, folks. Come on. One note about this event. If you find a bag where to get stuck on top of the hurricane, that would indeed count as a completed throw. So at that point, the competitor would be allowed to move on to the next bag and throw the next one into rotation. 30 seconds. We have only got five seconds to get it done. Ta-da. Day one is finished. Last event was a sandbag toss. We got the 35 and the 40. I should have stopped, slowed down, taken 20, 30 seconds, and I probably could have gotten a 45 bag. But I just went right into it, and I missed it. Threw it a handful of times. So two bags in like 14 seconds. Now John's ready to go get drunk and eat some steak. One pint of beer. Free. All right, day two events. Max, reps, axle, clean and press, 285. Next event is a wheelbarrow race. So we'll be facing the other way, facing the wheelbarrow. And last event's yoke. 710 pounds. 60 feet down, 60 feet back. The wheelbarrow is the same weight as the deadlift. 670 pounds in hand. Let's go, Quenchenegu. Current warm-up situation for Axel. Just a few dudes in line. Athletes ready. Judges ready. Come on, Alan. There you go, buddy. Nice. Get it on your head now. That looks like it. Push it. It looks terrible. Again, getting this. No. Nice job, Alan. The other part is getting it overhead. They must have the impact. Steady overhead with arms extended, knees extended, upright posture. Head underneath the wheelbarrow. Go, Alan. One more time. In order to get that down, command. 30 seconds. 60 seconds. Sounds like... Come on, Alan. Five seconds remain. Okay, so for Axel at Clean Impress, we got one rep. Wanted more, but that's what everyone says. Now we're getting ready for wheelbarrow race. Same weight as the deadlift that we had yesterday, but we're going to be facing the wheelbarrow. Pick is a little bit higher. And 60 feet as fast as you can. What are your predictions, John? The same boat. Correct answer was... Ping! Leave until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar until arkadaşlar Going a bit like this, the hands are a big factor for many of these headlaves. You've got to be maintaining the handles where you keep crashing to the ground and every time you have to reach. Wheelbarrow race done. I'm really happy with my performance. I was able to carry a full 60 feet without dropping. I was able to pick it up, which I couldn't do yesterday. The handles were a couple of times higher than yesterday. And you're facing forward, which for me is a little bit easier position. I'm in that same position. I'm really happy I was able to hold on to it without dropping. Last and final event, what do we got? Walk down and back with a yoke, 60 feet both ways. How much weight? 7'10". Athletes ready! Judges ready! Go, Alan! Go! Up! Throw! Come on, let's do this! Let's do this! 700 plus pounds on the body. Doesn't that sound like a fun time case? Go, man! You know, I'm going to have a little strong man. They do think it's a good time. I don't know who breaks up in the morning and says, I'm going to put 700 pounds on my shoulders. Let's go, Alan! Come on, Alan! 30 seconds! You're right there! You're right there! Good job, Alan! Good job, Alan! Guys working their butts off to finish this course. Still fighting 15 seconds! Go! Good job, Alan! I believe that did it! That's it. Strongman Corporation Nationals 2021 is done. Last event was yoke walk. 710 pounds, 60 feet down and back. My only goal was to just get it down and back without dropping it. And I did. So I'm happy with that. I think what I'm even more happy about is how many Untamed Strength members were here in this competition. We got Nadia competing lightweight women. Matt Webb, heavyweight men. He loves cameras. We got John competing middleweight. Justin Ramirez, world's strongest fencer. We got Eddie, lightweight men. The only lightweight man. Jacob McBride. And we got Jamie. Ribs, chicken, mac and cheese, smoked taters. Outstanding. That was outstanding barbecue. You don't find that kind of barbecue in Northern California. So thanks again for the recommendation. One of the volunteers at the Strongman Competition. I didn't want to just sit in my hotel room while I'm here. I'm actually on my way to the banquet dinner. But I figured I'd get some good barbecue, good dinner while I'm in Virginia. All right, I had to be quick. My phone's running out of storage. I want to thank every one of you, if you're still watching this video, every one of you at Nationals who came up and thanked me for YouTube videos and any content that I put out. It really, really means a lot. People were, you know, men and women were coming up saying that they've been watching the channel for four or five years. Someone even said they've been watching since Untamed Strength 1.0. And it just means a lot. There were guys that were way stronger than me who were saying, thanks for the videos. I learned a lot. So it's really cool. And it means a lot. Makes my heart warm. And I'm glad I actually went to the competition. Not only to compete for myself, but to meet a bunch of you guys. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember, train on time. And always remember, train on time.