 Mʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯʯ to have their calibrated plates and their calibrated bars. Just pick it up. How many inches are these farmer's handles? How many inches wide is this frame? How many inches wide are these handles? 25 inches apart. Do you have any logs that are 24 inches wide apart? I know this is technically a 12 inch log, but it feels a little bit more like 13 inches. So how much does this tire weigh? About 450. Right, but how much is it like in hand? How much does it feel like? I'm not sure. It's a 450 tire. I don't think the weight in hand really matters. Well, no, it does. Like, okay, high deadlift 360 for a triple. How does that transfer over to this? Like, how much am I going to be feeling in my hands? I'm not sure, but it's a 450 tire. Well, no, let's figure this out. Hold on. I wish these handles were an inch narrower. Oh, these are too thick. The pick on these is really low. This one's 240. This one's 230. I need a 235. If we look at where the fulcrum's at and making a hypotenuse triangle, we would know force times mass and acceleration. In hand, it's about 69%. But if you're about a 45 degree angle, it's going to change. So I know this 285 stone is 18 and a half inches diameter. I'm wondering if you can make another one, 285, but only 18 inch diameter. Does anyone know if the deadlift's going to be with the deadlift bar? It is. A rogue deadlift bar or a Texas deadlift bar? This tread sucks. Yep, it's uneven. Now I know exactly where to put my hands. Hi, yes, I'd like to drop into your gym for one full week just so I can practice on the Hoosafel. Yes, I do have my own Hoosafel, but I need to try your Hoosafel stone because we're using it in comp. Yeah, I realize it's a six-hour drive. That's why I'm staying in a hotel all week. Only 220 pounds? Let me do that again. Geared powerlifting is so lame. Strongman is about real strength. It's you versus the weight. Soft belt for beltless work. Hard soft belt. Hard belt powerlifting belt. Got knee sleeves. Of course, got my knee wraps. These shoes are for any overhead events. Flat shoes, deadlift events. Elbow sleeves, elbow wraps. Flexible wrist straps for overhead events. Stiff wrist wraps for heavy overhead events. Figure eights for a barbell. Figure eights for an axle bar. Straps for other bars. Chalk. Tacky. And a deadlift suit for deadlift. That's why I like Strongman. It's literally the most functional strength sport out there. Yo, what is this medley? 90 seconds? Am I reading this correctly? Is this two medleys in the same competition? Why is this fucking running? Bro, two pressing events? I mean, can we just max deadlift? Alright, hear me out. We just do overhead press from the rack. No clean. And none of that split jerk bullshit either. That's 60 feet. These powerlifters always have excuses. Misgroove this. Misgroove that. Look, you're either strong enough to lift it or you're not. Not enough tacky. Too much tacky. These stones are too dirty. This stone's way too clean. I'm just too short. I'm just too tall. I have to bend over so far. The texture of this log is just too smooth. Getting it to my lap is easy. I just can't load it. If I can just get it to my lap, it's easy. No, the clean's easy. It's just the press. No, the press is easy. It's just the clean. The texture of this log is too rough. Straps are messing me up.