 I hope you're hungry while watching this video because you are in for a treat. Super squats is an iconic weight trening program that centers around the squat for one brutally hard set of 20 reps done three times per week. The program will test you physically and mentally beyond any other program that you've ever followed. I bought this book in 2012 and I'm telling you it is a very convincing read. Here's a sentence from the book. Throughout super squats you will be advised to work beyond your customary limits to work beyond your customary limits. Use your mind to will your body to new heights. Use your mind to will your body to new heights. Use your mind to will your body to new heights. You would think by looking at this program, super squats, how to gain 30 pounds of muscle in six weeks was intended for skinny young men looking to gain weight and strength and it sure is, but it's not just for beginners. It can be effective for anyone really. I squatted 500 pounds for one rep on December 20th, 2012. This is my actual logbook. I did this before starting super squats. So it's not just for beginners. And I started super squats. On January 21st, 2013, one month after I squatted 500 pounds for one rep. My first workout was with 320 pounds for 20 reps. Now, if you're following along and you're thinking about doing the program, first off, buy the book. Don't just follow some PDF you find online by the book, get it from the source, read the whole book. Anyways, 320 pounds is about 65% of 500 pounds. So 65% of my wonder max that I started started with. So that's a reference for you. But I should say, I also could not complete the full six weeks. I picked 320 pounds, 320 pounds to start with because the program is six weeks long. You do iT3 times per week. You had five pounds each session. That's going to be an 85 pound increase in your 20 rep max squat. And I wanted to hit 400, 405 for 20 reps. Unfortunately, I failed at 380 pounds. From what I remember, it wasn't my body that failed. And my trening partner at the time, my best friend, he was doing the program with me. We were in the Marine Corps together, he got out of the Marine Corps and went home. And the very next session, I failed my workout. I tried again, I failed again. And I just after failing to workouts on super squats, I couldn't dig myself out of that hole. Anyways, found within the book is a suggested diet. And it is legendary. So I'm making this video because I want to show you just so you can get a picture of it. This diet contains a lot of calories, a lot of protein, and a lot of saturated fat. I imagine this is the typical diet of a 16 year old high school football player from the Midwest who also works on a dairy farm when he's not playing football and lifting weights. Without further ado, 7am breakfast, three eggs, one slice of bread, one glass of milk. 9.30am snack. Half a sandwich, meat. I use these small pieces of bread and called it half a sandwich. One glass of milk. I was also in a hurry and didn't have time to make a dressed up sandwich. So this is literally meat and bread. I'm using sliced chicken breast. 12pm lunch. One sandwich, meat. I wanted to really enjoy this. So I added avocado, tomatoes, pickles, lettuce, and mustard. Not just one sandwich, not just one sandwich, but a second sandwich. Cheese. This is the grilled type. One piece of fruit, one glass of milk. 3pm snack. One hard boiled egg. One slice of cheese. One glass of milk. 6pm supper. 3 fourths pound of meat. I chose steak. This was .85 pounds. So I left out a few slices when I plated it to geT3Quarter pound. Two vegetables. Two vegetables. I steamed broccoli and carrots. Two glasses of milk. And one piece of fruit that I forgot to include in the video. A banana. We're not done yet. 9pm. Snack. Let's fill my belly with more milk and cheese. Quarter pound of cheese. Two glasses of milk. Now the book says this is 4,750 calories and 253 grams of protein. But wait, there's more. This is from the book. The first thing you might notice about this diet is the sheer quantity of food consumed. But remember that this approach was developed before the days of food supplementation. So it took a lot of food to supply target levels of calories and protein. Actually, many diets of this type werEQuite a bit heavier than this one. Easily adding to the above breakfast. A glass of orange juice. A bowl of cooked cereal. Some ham or bacon. And another egg and glass of milk. Plus, a protein-packed blender bomb consumed at any point during the day. Four cups of whole milk. Two cups of powdered milk. A quarter cup of nutritional brewer's yeast. One banana. Two tablespoons of lecithin. One tablespoon of wheat germ oil. One large scoop of vanilla ice cream. This protein-packed blender bomb adds about 100 additional grams of protein. Let me know what you think of this diet. Thanks for watching and always remember, DREADON TIME!