 It was pretty difficult to get up this morning. I usually get up at 4 a.m. And I did this morning. My clock said 4 a.m. My brain and my body said still 3 a.m. With this time change. And I don't think humans are supposed to be awake at 3 a.m. I. of mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress to make sure that I do front squats and I do them heavy. I think front squats helps with any sort of pick, any sort of load, Atlas stone loads. That's another thing. I think that even though I haven't been doing many Atlas stone loads, I think that that extension, squeeze of the glutes, extension in the hips and the knees and ankles, that triple extension is really going to pay off when I'm loading the stones. That's what I hope at least. This platform needs to be replaced. Underneath the weights, this wood needs to be replaced. It's starting to dent. Even though this is a bumper-only platform, that wood still takes a beating. It's kind of uneven. So my tip for anyone lifting on a platform that has dents in it, whether you're deadlifting or rowing or clening, if you drop the bar and it can't and it turns a little bit and it's uneven, just position yourself square on the bar. Don't worry about staying square or centered in the platform. Pull the rep, drop it. If it's turned like this, I'm just going to go here and pull it from there. I know that kind of messes with the feng shui of like staying in a certain direction in a room, but honestly, I just view it as I'm going to be doing this in a strongman competition in a parking lot. There's going to be people all over the place, all sorts of distractions, someone standing right in front of you. The ground's not always even, so turning a little bit is not a big deal. That's actually a reason why I use the crash pads. Someone has asked me, why are you using crash pads and bumpers? Aren't the bumpers meant to be dropped on the floor? The crash pads, one, elevate it a little bit, so if you want to do like a block pull, then that works that way. But it also, when I drop the bar into pads, it just sits in place. There's not bouncing, it doesn't roll around, it just sits right back in place. So that's kind of nice. But I can't just pull from blocks, from crash pads all the time. I want to actually pull from the floor because I'll probably do that in the competition. Clueless Allen strikes again. I just did the math on this, and this is 135. Might as well make it 320s. Make it 140. Three plates, baby. All right, let's do it. I can clen that today. There's three parts to this. Aggressive pull up. Aggressive pull under. Aggressive reversal back up. Boom, boom, boom. Don't be a sally on the pull. Violently get under the bar, and don't get pinned at the bottom. Oh, come on. Got it. Got to go up. Fuck. Come on. Oh, come on. Not happening. All right, not happening today. So what was the reason for trying three more times? Well, the 140 felt so good, I thought I can absolutely do 150. I almost went 145, but I said, I'm not going to waste time. I'll just do 150. And my first attempt at 150, I could just feel as I was pulling it, I was not giving it all my effort. I was holding back for whatever reason. Like, let's see if I can get away with doing 80% here. And it just felt, you know, pretty slow and unexplosive and unathletic. And I wasn't trying very hard the whole time. So I said, all right, try it again. But this time, actually try. And then I think I tried so damn hard that I experienced some bar crash. So I got under the bar so fast that I got to the bottom of the squat before the bar was done dropping. It slammed me down at the bottom. And that's why I got pinned. So I said, all right, this next time, try to keep with the bar. Stay in contact with the bar. Stay in motion with the bar. Or meet the bar on the catch rather than bottoming out and just slamming it on my shoulders. And I did. I just, I'm just done. Couldn't get it. Wasn't strong enough. So, and the reason I tried again and again is because I had a clear identifiable cue of why I didn't get the previous one. There have been times where I'm pulling and I'm like, dude, it's just not there today. I just am not feeling it. No way. I'm not going to be stupid and just keep trying to go up or keep attempting the same weight. But I felt good today. I felt, why not try it? It feels like it's there today. Unfortunately, it wasn't. And Dozer WeightliftinGHas mentioned, yeah, if you feel like you're nowhere near, if I'm like pulling this and it's just like nowhere, no chance, drop it, move on. But if you try something and you think you can get it just by making a small correction, then do it. Because it kind of gets you used to in competition. What if IMiss my clen in competition? I can't just say like, well, I'll try tomorrow. You've got to try again. And again and again until you get it. And unfortunately, this would be a lot cooler of a message if I actually got it. Better success story. But the point is, get used to trying again sometimes. If you haven't already, be sure to check out my strongman program. It's linked in this video. Link down below in the description area. It's a strongman program. But if you're not into strongman, it's still a great program to develop your front squat, back squat, deadlift, row, front, some carrying strength, all that kind of stuff. And there are two designated strongman days. So you could just omit those strongman days and just do a three-day split. For those of you who have already purchased it, thank you. Tag me on Instagram so I can answer any questions. Or if you give me any feedback, I know the program hasn't been available for that long. But send me a DM or tag me. Something about the program. Give me some feedback. And I'd appreciate it. Or if you have any questions, I'll try to respond to messages on Instagram. Unfortunately, if I'm not following you, then it'll go to message requests. And I get a whole bunch of spam in there. So I don't check it that often. But if I get something that doesn't look like spam, I'll check it out. Oh, I'm sorry for leaving you guys on tilt. If you're wondering what the heck I ate for breakfast. Quick and easy. Three hard-boiled eggs. And three of these homemade muffins. Healthy homemade muffins. Sweetened with honey. It's got eggs in it. Hemp seed. Shredded apples. Shredded carrots. Some fresh squeezed orange juice. Perfect. Healthy baked good. And if you're thinking, wow, Alan. So great that you make these healthy baked goods for your family and your kids. Trust me, they won't like them. Speaking of not liking things, my legs are not liking these. Oh, good Lord. If you're wondering where the tren untamed has been at the end of these videos, I just record these videos and I don't really know when the end of each video is going to be. It's not planned out beforehand. So I don't have a hard ending when I'm recording. So if you missed it, here it is. Ten on time. Oh, come on. Oh. Here we go. Perfect way to ruin my day. Oh, good Lord. Yes. Yes. Day two. Final week of prep for California Strongest Man. This morning, another quick breakfast that IMade the night before, last night. It is my mega overnight oat recipe. Banana, peanut butter, oats, Greek yogurt, protein powder, hemp seeds, almond milk, pecans, flax seed, blueberries, lettuce it overnight. Doing some explosive medicine ball over shoulder. So I'll pick this medicine ball up, quickly catch, pop it over, a little triple extension. And I'm doing some single leGHops. Just as a warm up before I do my deadlift variation, which is normally deadlifts. It's been barbell deadlifts. But today I'm going to do the, like a Ukrainian deadlift or a deadlift with a belt squat. Squatmax MD belt squat. Just because it, it's kind of a, simulates the Alistone a little more than the barbell deadlift. It's like a narrow stance. Simulates the deadlift. Ukrainian deadlift. I've used this movement quite a few times in my prep. Because my bicep has been bothering me. So I haven't done as many stone loads as I can. But this is very similar. I can take the exact same stance width as I would with a stone. My hands are about even with my feet. Hip height, back angle is all pretty much the same. I can't really mimic this with a barbell deadlift. If I was to do like a deficit sumo, which I've tried. The barbell just kind of swings all over the place. This feels like I can pull it up and down in a straight line like a stone. So this has been clutch with my prep. Mainly just getting my back and hamstrings used to picking up heavy weight off the ground in this same position. So as far as specificity goes, this piece of equipment has been great. Oh. Oh no. Oh. Okay. Just a great opportunity to explain how this machine works. So there's a rail down here. And the loading pin slides up and down that rail to keep it in a fixed position. So it's not just freely swinging around. Well, that rail is only so tall. I doubt you can see anythinGHere. That rail is only so tall. And I pulled this thing off the rail. So right now it's resting on that pole. There is a strap right here. Shouldn't put my hands down there. There is a strap there that's supposed to prevent it from lifting up high. But it's failed. So if you notice when I was doing these, I'm not locking out at the top. And that's because I don't have the range of motion. When I do try to lock out like I just did, it pulls it off the rail. So I was trying to avoid that. Normally this is the belt squat. This is where you would stand and do belt squat. However, there's an attachment to lift you up higher, which I'm using so that I am from a deficit. So I have to reach down lower. So the pick position is much lower. So, all right. I'm going to take this weight off. And I'll let you watch as I do that. I used the good weightlifting bar yesterday. And it's a great weightlifting bar. But the knurling is just so good that it freaking shreds up my... I don't know if you can see that in the light. Shreds up my legs. And I was pulling my shorts down so there was no bare skin on the bar. But it's still just raspberries scabs up my thighs. So finishing up with some ab wheels. Something about the ab wheel. I think I've said it before in the past too. People want to say that this is an ab exercise. You know, use your abs. It is. But it's not a lat exercise. But I don't see why it can't be both. Why don't you turn it into a compound movement? I do feel it in my lats as they're keeping tight and pulling back in. And so I don't see anything wrong with using your lats and your abs. Some medicine ball over the shoulder. Some cranian deadlifts and some ab wheels. That's it for the day. Not a big day. I just did the most important stuff. I'm actually going to go run. About 20 minutes. Hill intervals on the treadmill. I want to keep up my fitness all the way into the competition. One thing that a lot of people underestimate with strongman competitions is conditioning. And it's the fact that the day is long. You know, 9 a.m. to 3 or 4 p.m. You've got to pretty much be ready to go all day. And I think a lot of people in trening will separate everything. You know, I've got a really good overhead day. And a couple days later, I've got a really good deadlift day. A couple days later, I've got a really good event day. But can you put all five of those events together on competition day? And so I think conditioning, and especially the running that I've been doing, and the hill work, the hill intervals, is really going to help me recover between each event. So that I can, you know, operate at 90 to 100% on each event, rather than 100%, 90%, 80% just fade through the day. That's the plan anyways. Maybe I'll eat my words. Maybe I'll eat my words. With some strawberries and blackberries. And these homemade lemon poppy seed muffins. One of the members brought in a bunch of lemons from a lemon tree. And I figure when members hand you lemons, make lemon poppy seed muffins. These are actually lemon chai seed muffins, because I didn't have any poppy seed, but I did have chai seeds. Okay, I figured I'd get some event specificity in. It's not raining anymore, but it's wet out. So I want to see how the split jerk feels on wet ground. I'm doing an axle bar. I'm doing a little bit more clen and pressed. clen and jerk. Trying to take more of a competition warm-up approach. If you've ever done a strongman competition, you know that warm-ups are difficult. There's usually limited equipment, and all the competitors are fighting the warm-up. I've noticed that everyone's in such a rush to add weight to the bar. Whereas I'm like, empty bar, 25s, 35s, just actually taking the time to warm-up. But I can't really do that in competition at all times. You don't want to be the guy, when they have two 45s on, to say, can we take the 45 on, put a 35 and a 2.5? So what I'm doing is just big jumps. PlatEQuarter, platEQuarter mainly. And we'll see what I work up to today. I'm going to test out these elbow sleeves, which I have not used since, I think, last year when I did California Strongest Man. Sometimes equipment just gets in the way. It doesn't actually help, especially with really dynamic events. Like, you know, a full clen, zombie clen, jerk, all that kind of stuff. But I want to see if these help or actually get in the way. So the front squat actually feels pretty slow. But I think that's because I did heavy front squats. 315 clen, 335 fail three times a couple days ago. So that's expected. But the jerk feels really good. Feels fast, explosive. And shoulder feels fine right now. I figured I'd get this axle clener press out of the way now. So that if it does bother my shoulder, I still have, you know, some time before the competition for it to cool down. Man, that front squat is surprisingly tough. It's sticking a lot at me. I'm still able to get that jerk fine. So I'm actually going to put on these knee sleeves and see how that feels. Not because I'm married to any number. Like, I have to do a certain number today. But IMight as well use these if they make the front squat feel a lot better. Save me some energy for the jerk. And if I'm going to use them in competition, this is the last day I do axle clener press. So IMight as well try it. I don't want to try this, you know, on competition day. So let me try it out now. I also haven't used knee sleeves probably since last year. California Strongest Man. So earlier this week when I had failed that 335 clen, 150 kilo clen, and I tried again and again, and I talked about when to try again, when to just wrap it up and be done with the trening session, today is one of those days that I just wrapped it up. I'm not going to try to attempt this again. It's just not there. All right, so this is day four, last week of trening before my competition week for California Strongest Man 2025. And today I'm going to be doing some yoke and sandbag. I really like single leg jumps, especially single leg box jumps for warmup before I do yoke. Ankles, knees, hips, hip flexor. I just feel like it works really well for the unilateral nature of the yoke walk. A heavy yoke walk, man, you can feel your hip muscles working really, really hard, and I feel like this is a good way to wake all that stuff up. When you see me doing box jumps, kind of sketchy stuff like this, single leg box jumps, there's never any doubt in my mind that I can do whatever plyometric or box jump I'm trying to do. I never try to reach beyond my abilities with plyometric stuff like this. If I do, it's going to be with, you know, a PVC PIPe or a stick on top of the foam rollers, like you see me doing. So if I fail, nothing actually happens. But I see people always trying to max out their box jump, you know, like, and get really scared. You're like, oh, I don't know. Okay. Oh, I don't know. I'm never like that. Not because I have this, like, not because I'm saying, like, I'm just so confident and I can do anything you put in front of me. I'm just saying I never try to reach on this stuff. If anything, just jump a little bit higher. Just make the jump a little bit clener. Just don't tuck as much. So the message being, don't feel like you have to just keep addinGHeight, or distance to a jump if you're not confident in your ability to do it because you might fall and hurt yourself. Someone actually just recently in here fell on a box and fell, smashed the bridge of their nose and bled everywhere. Definitely more difficult on my left side, which I'm pretty sure is the same when I lunge. I just have more confidence on my right leg. Or when I do a... No, actually, it's the opposite. When I do a pistol squat, my left side balance feels a lot better. But jumping unilaterally off my left leg feels worse. I don't know. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. No, actually, it's the opposite. Come on. All right, that was a pretty easy effort while still being kind of heavy. Let's see, this is 230, 320, 410, 500, 590. Pretty easy. I'm going to be a beltless. I'll probably do one more, one or two more with a belt. I'm just going to add another 90 to make it 680. And I normally use this belt. This is a three-inch belt, three-inch, seven-millimeter. IMade a video on belts if you want to check out more in-depth discussion on belts. But I've been using this. I want to use, I'm going to try this one out. This is my four-inch, 10-millimeter belt. A little bit wider, a little bit thicker. Which should work out okay for the yoke because there's not a lot of movement at all in my trunk. So, bigger belt, a more stable belt, or a sturdier, stiffer belt should feel good. mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress mistress Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Some of the things that went well, my clen feels really good, and I think that will help with stuff like keg toss and the Atlas stone load, and it will obviously help with my actual clen. I feel pretty good. So that stuff, my conditioning feels good. So all of that stuff, I think I'm happy with. However, that stuff's not really in the competition. My competition prep, my event treninGHas been almost nonexistent just because I've had this bicep issue, and then the last few weeks, my shoulder was bothering me. It feels okay now, but my shoulder was bothering me, really limiting the amount of actual jerk I wanted to do. And with my bicep bothering me, I just dropped all arm trening, and I didn't do any rowing, which might end up hurting me, especially on the truck pull, maybe even on the stone loads. And so it's kind of, IMean, it'd be an exaggeration to say it's a shot in the dark as to how I'm going to do, but at this point, I usually go into competitions just maximum confidence. I have no doubt that whatever is in front of me, I can do, I can do it really well. But now there's a little bit of uncertainty. I'm not really sure how the events are going to go. So really what I'm relying on with this competition is my athleticism, my experience, and I just want to see how far that carries me. And I think the cue for the day, what I've been telling myself, what I have to do on that day is just react. Just react to whatever's in front of me, react as best I can. That's all I can really control is just my reaction to what's ever in front of me. And so I'm going to do my best. Hey, there's a skunk running across the strongman yard. So that's it. Wish me luck. I'll try to get as much video as I can of the competition. It's just always hard. I don't like talking to a camera. I don't talk to a camera in between events. I just like to focus on the event itself. And getting footage is usually like, hey, we record this on my phone. So it's not going to be anything, you know, cinematic. But I'll try to at least capture the events so that you guys can see. For those of you who have been following along, that's it. It's time to compete. Thanks for watching. And always remember, tren on Time!