 Hello everyone, I'm Alan Thrall, and in this video I'm going to teach you how to incorporate jumping into your strength trening routine. Jumping and plyometric trening is a great way to build athleticism, speed and power, agility, reflexes and what I call just overall youthfulness. I can certainly say that with each decade of our lives we do less running, jumping and sprinting because we stopped playing sports and frankly we stopped going outside to play because ain't nobody got time for that. We got work, we got bills to pay, honey do list, timeline. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our minds. And if you're not getting food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our food onto our and you like doing strongman competitions and CrossFit competitions, jump trening can certainly prepare you for the demands of those sports too. And even if you don't care about any of those attributes I just listed, you're thinking, dude, I'm 25 years old, I don't care about your geriatric safety prevention advice. I still think that jump trening and plyometrics can help improve your strength performance. Muscular stretch reflex does deteriorate with age, and it can be detrened to some degree. If you don't use it, you lose it. You could just speed up the eccentric in which you perform your barbell movements, but I think that doing that along with some jump trening and plyometrics can improve your stretch reflex that occurs at the bottom of a squat, the bottom of a clen, or in a push press, etc. Now I'm going to cover a basic jumping progression. You can start wherever you want and take it as slowly or as quickly as you like, or you could just jump in to whatever part of the progression you want, whatever part you're comfortable with. This progression will start at zero. You have never done any jump trening in your life, or both of your feet have not left the ground simultaneously since the 1980s when you were dancing in the club to Diana Ross. Hops. Hop up and down on two feet with minimal knee flexion. This looks a lot like jumping rope because it basically is. This will prepare your feet and ankles for the demands of jumping. You can start with something like 100 to 200 total jumps broken up into however many sets you want. I would probably suggest performing sets of 10 to 20 reps between each warm-up set of a barbell movement. So if you're warming up for squats, do 10 to 20 reps in between each warm-up set. If your jump trening is completely detrened, your feet might get sore after this, especially your arches. One foot hops. Same concept, but on one foot at a time. You might find that you have trouble staying in the same place at first. That's fine. Over time, your balance will improve. One foot dot drill. You'll start on the center dot, jump to one corner, then back to center, and then repeat until you've hit all four corners. I used to do these every day durinGHigh school football, and I never understood the benefit until now. You're being intentional with each jump forward, backwards, and laterally. It's a multi-directional hop on one leg. Vertical jump. Now you'll start focusing on height. Bend the knees slightly and quickly jump up as high as you can. If you notice yourself wanting to pause at the bottom, try to minimize that hesitation over time. Quick down, quick up. The vertical jump also teaches you how to land correctly. This is really important. You have to absorb force on the way back down. Don't land with straight legs. Consecutive vertical jumps. Do multiple vertical jumps without any pausing. You've got to propel your weight up, absorb the impact down, and then reverse your weight back up. Box jumps. The box jump incorporates a vertical jump plus some knee tuck. At first, just perform these as singles, meaning perform a jump, step down, reset, repeat. You don't need to jump up and down until you're ready for that. Box jumps with depth drop. Rather than climbing down at the top of the box, turn around, step off the box, and land on two feet while absorbing the impact. Think soft landing or quiet landing like a cat. Tuck jump. Same as the consecutive vertical jumps, with the addition of pulling your knees up each time you jump. These are deceptively difficult. Tuck jumps demand rapid extension, flexion, extension, flexion with each jump. Hurdle jump. This is the same as a tuck jump, but now you have to jump horizontally, not just vertically. Always jump over something that will not injure you if you happen to fail. I like putting a PVC PIPe on top of foam rollers. You can also put a PVC PIPe in a squat rack and jump away from the J-cups. Broad jump. Now you're jumping forward for distance. In my opinion, the broad jump involves a bit more impact than a vertical jump or any jump for height because you're propelling your 210 pounds of body weight up and forward so your feet and knees have to stop that forward momentum when you land. At first, take them one jump at a time. Consecutive broad jump. Exactly what it sounds like. Multiple broad jumps without any pause between jumps. Try to bEQuick with trensitions and minimize time spent on the ground. You've arrived at my final stage. Jumping on two legs is too easy, so now you have to start jumping on one leg at a time. Single leg jumps, either for height or distance. You're either going to look like an elite athlete or a total bozo while doing these. Single leg tuck jumps. Single leg box jumps. Single leGHurdle jumps. Single leg bounding. The list goes on. Once you're comfortable with these jumping variations, you can mix and match however you want. Combine jumps for height and distance. Jump over various obstacles. Jump laterally. Jump with a turn. Jump from various starting positions. Jump with resistance. Just have fun with it. Sets and reps. If I had to guess, on average, I would say I perform one to six reps for four to six max effort sets. This does not include any warm-up sets I do. I am a big fan of Will Retell's approach of having a designated number of reps and then doing as many high effort sets as possible in a time constrent, like 10 to 15 minutes. If you really want a sound strength program that incorporates jumping, I would suggest purchasing one of his programs. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, TREATING OUT IN TINE!