 What's up guys, I'm here with my good buddy Alastair, and he's going to show you how to low bar squat, slightly bent over low bar, I guess weightliftinGHigh bar type squat, so IMove my stance in, okay feel that bone, it goes right under that spine of the scapula, and today we're going to learn how to low bar squat. During the barbell trening information era on YouTube from 2015 to 2019, there was a lot of content made about the high bar squat and the low bar squat, most of it was good, from the comfort of your own home, you could learn how to low bar squat, about the intricacies of the bar bar squat, and for free, and the bar bar squat, and for free, no need to pay for a coach or a personal trener, you could learn about advantages and disadvantages of both styles, application of both styles, form differences, even population differences, like who should use which style. A lot of us learned how to squat from these videos, so I want to acknowledge that first. Now fast forward to current times, 2025, and I'd like to give an update on the status of the high bar back squat versus the low bar back squat. I'm just going to spoil the video now and say that I don't really teach the high bar squat or the low bar squat anymore. I just teach the squat. As a coach or personal trener, trying to pigeonhole lifters into camp high bar or low bar is actually a sign of only understanding something on a surface level. You've memorized how to high bar squat. Bar on top of your traps, vertical torso, head and chest straight ahead, sit down without leaning forward, stand up the same way. You've memorized how to low bar squat. Bar across the spine of your scapula, bend over, head and chest down, hips back on the way down, hip drive on the way up. You've basically memorized a script, and if you're lucky, the lifter that you're coaching fits the script, and you're both happy. Personally, in the past, sometimes it didn't work out like that, and when I'm coaching someone, something just seemed off with their squat, but I would hesitate to make a correction if it crossed the line of high bar squat to low bar squat. I was coaching the squat with my hands tied because I was essentially just coaching the high bar squat or the low bar squat rather than coaching the lifter. And I was starting to feel like I cared more about the aesthetics of their low bar squat or of their high bar squat rather than just worrying about their squat in general. Dudes would come to me, and they'd say they want to squat more weight, and I'd take a look at their technique. They would display a perfect high bar squat, and my go-mad brain would say, well, if you want to squat more weight, you need to learn how to low bar squat. When the solution wasn't any sort of adjustment to their technique, it might have just been a program adjustment, or most of the time it was definitely just you need more time under the bar. This is the same as coaches caring more about you following the program than the actual results that you're getting. They care more about you following the program to a T than becoming a more self-sufficient lifter. You need to do your three sets of five. You need to add five pounds each session. When you fail to add five pounds, reduce the weight by 15% and work your way back up. If you fail again, repeat the process. If you fail a third time, you're not sleeping enough, you're not eating enough, or you're just being a pussy. This is a classic example of a coach caring more about the program than actually helping the lifter. And this is sort of how I felt about coaching the high bar squat and the low bar squat. I was more concerned with them hitting these technique bullet points than just worrying about the results they were getting. I should be helping them squat in whatever way needed to squat hard and squat often. Nowadays, I find it much more helpful to just teach lifters how to squat without worrying about fitting them into a specific style of squat. I don't need to analyze their squat to determine if they're a high bar squatter or a low bar squatter. In my most recent how to squat video, which is still a few years old, I talk about the three pillars of a good squat. So if you were to ask me, how does my squat look? The firsT3 things that I'm going to look for. Number one, the lifter is balanced on their feet. Number two, the lifter is squatting to depth. And number three, there are no drastic changes in their back angle. Key word here is drastic. So when I'm teaching the squat, I'm just going to put the bar on their back in a secure position where the bar doesn't roll around while they squat. I don't really care if it's high bar or low bar. They are going to bend over just enough to stay balanced throughout the movement. Some lifters are going to be more vertical. Some lifters are going to squat more horizontally. Whatever back angle they assume at the bottom, they'll try to maintain that out of the hole and throughout the sticking point. Getting slightly more horizontal is not a big deal. And it's actually going to happen when you struggle under a bar. I'll only make adjustments to bar placement, torso angle, head position, eye gaze, and stance based on the individual lifters needs to ensure they're balanced, hidden depth, stable, strong, and comfortable. As a lifter and as a coach, you have freedom to pick and choose any squat cues that work for you. Cues should be unique to the individual, not unique to the squat style. And part of the reason why IMade this video is because I still work with some people who say, I thought I should do this, insert common low bar cue, because I low bar squat. I thought I should do this, because I have long femurs. I thought I should do this, insert common high bar cue, because I high bar squat. Or people will ask if they should do more or less of another exercise if they're a high bar squatter or a low bar squatter. I think modifications to a program simply based on squat style is something that advanced power lifters might do, or someone with very specific needs or limitations. But in general, if you're just a lifting enthusiast, you probably don't need to change a program based on how you carry the bar on your back. I think that you'll get different results when you compare the front squat to a good morning. But comparing results and differences between placing the barbell one to two inches higher or lower on your back is just not worth worrying about. Let's take my current squat as an example. Right now, I place the barbell on top of my traps because that feels most comfortable to me. In the past, I put the bar lower on my back because that felt better at that time. I let myself bend over just enough to stay balanced on the descent. I actually try to feel more than I think as I descend. I let my knees bounce forward at the bottom, which probably shifts the bar slightly forward, but that feels comfortable to me. Even though the bar is higher on my back than it has been in the past, I still try to drive my hips up on the ascent while simultaneously keeping my chest in position so I don't get folded over like a taco. So on paper, this is a Frankenstein of high bar, low bar squat cues, and I'm completely unbothered by it. Thanks for watching and always remember, TRENON TIME!! Thank you.