 I recently asked people on Instagram, why they think they're not achieving their health, fitness, and strength goals. In this video, I'm going to talk about the top three reasons mentioned. The first reason was time. Don't have enough time to work out. Don't have enough time to prepare healthy food. Just don't have enough time in the day. Here's what I would suggest. Most of us don't work all day, seven days a week. You have one or two days off during the week. Let's say you have Saturday and Sunday off. Go to the gym on those two days and lift weights only on those two days. Saturday, do not going to train at all. This is that college athlete curse when you finish college and I'm not playing sports so what's the point of even working out anymore? So maybe you can't pursue this goal of getting a world record or deadlifting 700 pounds because you have obligations like family and work that are more important. You can still shift that goal and maybe make it a point to just not get out of shape which in my opinion is more important than a world record or an arbitrary barbell number anyways. You got to remember it is easier to stay in shape than it is to get back into shape so don't slip up just because you don't have five days a week to go to the gym for two hours each session. Find time to train any way possible. Remember that your life is not always going to be this busy. There will come a time when things slow down and you are able to put more focus more time more energy into lifting weights so continue lifting now even if it's just 10-15 minute sessions getting it in when you can so that you are prepared when you do get to take training more seriously and maybe train for that competition you've always wanted to do or pursue those barbell numbers that you've always had in mind. If you don't have time to cook meals I'm going to show you a lunch that I eat probably two or three times a week that requires no cooking. Microwavable rice. What you got? Piece of corn? What happened to that corn? Is that just pretend? That's just pretend. Oh it's not real. Canned chicken or canned tuna. Avocados and baby carrots. For breakfast quick and easy stuff that's John to prepare would be hard-boiled eggs and instant oatmeal which I guess you have to microwave but that's too much. I would say oatmeal granola bar or a fiber granola bar and some fruit along with hard-boiled eggs. Perfect breakfast. So this is the meal. I have this lunch a couple times a week. It's not the most glamorous meal but it gets the job done and it requires no cooking. Albuquerque tuna or canned chicken. Some microwavable rice. Avocado. Carrots. Some hot sauce. And I usually have a yogurt and an apple with that. To be continued. Trend on time! Why they think they are not achieving their health, fitness, and strength goals.