 Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thraw, and we are back with part 2. I asked Instagram followers the reason why they are not achieving their health and strength goals. What is sabotaging their progress? The first reason was discussed in the last video, or a couple videos ago, and it was a lack of time. In this video, I'm going to talk about one of the other top 3 reasons, unhealthy eating habits. I've talked a lot about what helped me lose 50 pounds now, from 250 pounds body weight to 200 pounds body weight, which is my current body weight. I've talked about this in several videos that I'll link to this one, so check those out if you haven't already. Unhealthy eating habits are just unhealthy lifestyle choices. This is a very tough topic to tackle with a simple YouTube video. There are a lot of things that contribute to poor eating habits. Genetics, past experiences are just your everyday routine, stress, understanding food, basic education, access to healthy food, your social environment, like what do your friends eat? What do your family members eat? What do your roommates, boyfriend, girlfriend, and coworkers eat? All of these things can affect appetite and cravings. My point is that it's not just always a lack of willpower. While it is up to you to take control of your situation, it is easier for some and more difficult for others. Personally, I've been skinny my whole life, so cutting down weight was pretty easy for me. I've been active my entire life, so being active for me every day is pretty easy. Hopefully, this video gives you at least one tool that you can use to your advantage. In past videos, I've talked a lot about behavior change, eating strategies like one protein, one carb, vegetable, or fruit. In this video, I've got three more suggestions that might help you get better control of your eating habits. Number one, set a goal and have a plan to execute. Setting goals without a plan of action is just wishful thinking. For example, saying, I want to eat less fast food is a great goal, but if you don't set yourself up for success, you are setting yourself up for failure. Make sure you have meals prepared or enough food at your house. If you're going to be away from your house, make sure that you bring a meal with you, or at least map out a restaurant with healthy food options that you can stop by. Don't be a product of your circumstances while you're out and about without food, driving around looking for something to eat. There is a fast food joint on every corner in town, and if you're not prepared, it's an easy option. Here's another example. If you regularly skip breakfast and you only end up snacking until lunch or overeating once lunchtime comes around, try eating a small breakfast every morning so there's less urge to eat those donuts in the break room, and you're less likely to overeat at lunchtime. But if you make it a goal to start eating breakfast, make sure you allow yourself enough room to wake up and eat. Make sure you have breakfast options available in your fridge or pantry. Set goals, but more importantly, have a plan of action. The second thing that's helped me, scheduling eating times. Whether you choose to eat two meals, three meals, or four meals per day, it doesn't really matter. Just try to schedule eating times and make it a part of your everyday routine. If your work or life schedule changes every day, plan scheduled eating times the night before. Doing this has helped me for a few reasons. A, planned eating times helps me to avoid snacking. If it's not time to eat, I'm not going to eat. I like having structure in my eating routine just like I like having structure in my training routine. Now, I don't live and die by these routines. Sometimes they get pushed around because I'm busy or something gets in the way. That's not a problem. I can adjust. But I know that having some consistency with my scheduled eating times helps me stay on track. If you are struggling to sleep, a suggestion might be try going to bed and waking up at the same time every day. Same concept, similar strategy, just applied to eating. B, planned eating times helps me avoid panic when I do get hungry. I used to kind of freak out when I got hungry. Oh no, I need to eat now. I'm wasting away. I'm going catabolic. Nowadays, if I get hungry, I can rest assured that everything is going to be okay. I'm eating lunch at 1230. I'll just stay busy until then. And C, it takes a lot of guesswork out of eating. I don't mindlessly eat. I don't let my emotions determine when I eat. I don't eat because I'm unsure of when I'll eat next. I really don't have to contemplate when I should eat or if I should eat this now. Should I eat later? I've got scheduled eating times. And my third tip, take a good look at your eating environment. I've got a guest to talk about this one. Powerlifter and barbell medicine coach, Leah Lutz. One type of food environment is our own home and workplace. These are the foods that we're exposed to and have access to. Some of this is in our control and some isn't. Some food environments will affect people differently than others. You can't usually just tell the office, hey, no one ever bring in donuts again, okay? And sometimes our own families have food that we really don't want to eat. Cue those kids' snacks. I've been thinking quite a bit about this and how often we can assume or say to someone else, hey, just stop eating X or eat less of it. It's almost as if we think that no one ever thought about this and all they needed to do was be told to stop. In reality, food environment is a huge factor in our dietary habits. It's what we have access to, what we know how to cook, what we see or don't see or smell, what is prepared or put in front of us. And sometimes, for some people, this food environment is a lot to manage. I'm thinking in particular about someone like a stay-at-home parent with a couple of toddlers or maybe a hospital nurse, particularly in the ICU. Those are tough. Often, we are culturally surrounded by highly palatable, high-reward foods. I can assure you that personally, years after losing weight, I must still manage my own environment. I shop with a list each week. I usually know what I'm going to cook for at least four to five days ahead. There is no food kept out on my counters. And the only snacks are those that I don't particularly like, but my nieces and nephews do. And so on. If I'm eating with others, I usually roughly scope out the options and make food choices before I walk up to a table of food or before it's time to place my order. I have worked on the habit of not eating while I'm cooking. Very tough one for me. And I also only bake now when it's for a clear reason. I had to really break that habit of stress baking in order to make myself feel better. As you can see, a lot of this is fairly individual, and it can take plenty of work to alter these things. That's it. Thank you guys for watching. I hope you enjoyed. Until next time, always remember... TRED ON TAN!