 Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrall, like IMentioned in my last video about running and lifting weights, this video is going to show my current routine, October 2022, I've been following it for a couple of months now. So I am following a running and squat program, not my own program, but I have adjusted it to a running and deadlift program, following it exactly as written, I just, I'm doing deadlifts instead of squats. Everything else you see that is not running and deadlifting, I have added myself. The program is designed to increase your mile time, and your squat, and your squat, and your squat, and your squat, and your squat, in my deadlift, one rep max. So that explains why most of the running clips you see in these videos, it looks like I'm running pretty fast. I'll link the program below, but know that, this program is not for beginners, so if you're wanting to start incorporating running into your weight trening routine, check out my last video, this current running program is probably too much, too fast, too intense to start with. So day one is Monday, and it's usually interval runs on the road, fast running for a period of time, followed by walking or slow jogging for a period of time. Total distance covered lately in these workouts has been between three and a half to five miles. That includes running and walking or jogging. If I do this run early in the morning, and it's still dark out, I'll usually do it on a track because I don't like running really fast on the road when I can't see that well, potholes and stray cats, you know. Jogging in the dark with my headlamp is fine. 80% sprinting, not so much. Later on in the day, still day one, I do an upper body workout. Strict overhead press for three to six sets of four to eight reps. Intensity is RPE seven to nine for all sets. Then I'll do two to three sets of push presses for the same amount of reps as my strict press sets. So if I'm doing eight reps on strict press, I'll do eight reps on push press. It's a good way to overload my triceps a little bit, especially after they are fatigued from the strict press. I usually use a barbell, but sometimes I'll use a log or a different specialty bar, whatever I'm interested in on that day. After that, I do 50 total pull-ups. This is a combination of body weight and assisted. Sets and reps don't really matter. I just try to push myself, but I want to shoot for a total number of reps. I finished day one with body weight shoulder push-up work. Looks something like this. I believe these are called jackknife push-ups. Day one recap is road interval runs in the morning. Later on, overhead press, push press, pull-ups, and push-ups. I shoot for less than one hour on all my strength workouts. Tuesday, day two is my first deadlift day. I always start with jumps because I like jumping and I don't want to lose my ability to jump. When I play with my kids, I jump off the jungle gym. I jump out of the bed of my truck, whatever. I think that if you don't use it, you lose it. So I try to make sure that I do them in the gym. And it's also my preferred way to warm up. So deadlifts, sets and reps change each week on this program, but day one or one day seems to be higher reps. It ranges from four to eight reps, all between 60 to 85% of a one rep max. This workout you're looking at was five reps at 65, 70, 75, 85% of one rep max. After that, I always do unilateral work. It's usually walking or stationary lunges. I wanted to use this new sore necks split squat stand, so I did split squats today. Two to three sets of eight to 15 reps per leg. It really depends on how much time I have, how much energy I have, and how hard I want to push in the gym. That determines whether or not I do two sets or three sets of anything listed in this entire video. And then I finish day two with ab rollouts, four sets of 10 reps. I don't like bottoming out this exercise. I just kind of think of it as a moving plank. I keep my core as tense as possible, and I think about vacuuming in my belly button like a bodybuilder. These get very tiring. So day two, recap, deadlifts, split squats, abs. Wednesday, day three, I start with an easy peasy jog. 20 to 30 minutes, same pace the whole time. This is purposely slow. It's just about getting some miles under my feet and maintaining a steady heart rate the whole time. On this particular run, I was downtown with 30 minutes to kill. Didn't plan on running, but I decided to do my run because sometimes it's now or never. Busy day ahead of me. I wasn't wearing my running clothes or my normal running shoes, but like I said in my last video, you can run anywhere, anytime. In the p.m., same day, I do another upper body workout. This is a bodyweight only workout for the most part. I start with hard push-ups, which are usually banded push-ups. Sometimes I'll use a weight vest or a plate on my back, but bands seem to work the best. I'll do eight to ten hard reps for five total sets. After that, I do dips. I recently added dips back into my routine after a couple years of not doing them at all. They always bothered my sternum, but I started with assisted dips, which really helped get my upper body acclimated to doing dips again, and it helped me get over some fears about hurting my sternum. So I now do assisted dips for warm-ups and then a couple sets of bodyweight dips. This is 50 total reps. Then I'll do inverted rows or these reverse ring flies for three sets of 10 to 15 reps. Super-setted with ring bodyweight curls for the same amount of reps. Day three recap. Light jog. Banded push-ups. Reverse ring flies. Ring curls. Day four is Thursday. Another deadlift day. This particular second deadlift day was a heavier session, working up to one single, then performing two sets of two reps and two sets of three reps. After deadlifts, I'll do front squats, three to five sets of four to eight reps. I'm only doing front squats as an exercise to maintain some balance in my lower body and maintain the muscle size of my legs and to complement my deadlift. Also to maintain the size of my butt. I'm not trying to push squat strength right now. And then I'll do a carry at the end of this day. Here I did slow walking, controlled farmer's walks for 30 to 40 seconds, super-setting after each set of front squats. This workout took a little bit longer than an hour because I rested longer than I normally do between today's heavy deadlift sets. Day four recap. Deadlifts. Front squats. Carries. Day five. I start the day off with a track workout. This seems to be the fastest running workout of the week. Usually 200, 400, 800, or 1200 meter fast running, spaced out with light jogging or walking. Later on in the day, I'll do my final strength trening upper body workout of the week. Overhead press from pins. Anywhere between chin to nose to forehead height. Five sets. Usually four to eight reps. Followed by weighted pull-ups. Five sets of one to five reps. I try to keep these strict. My shoulders and chest must touch the bar for each rep to count. I usually use the neutral handle position for these. And I finish this workout with more push-ups. Almost always with a timed prescription. Either myo rep sets with short rest periods or EMOM sets every minute on the minute. For this workout, I did 10 reps on the minute every minute for 10 minutes. It's a simple and quick but challenging way to knock out 100 push-ups at the end of your workout. Day 5 recap. Track workout. Pin press. Weighted pull-ups. Push-ups. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember... Tread on time! Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log Log