 Hey everyone, my name is Alan Thrall, and today I want to talk about why you end up failing to meet expectations on competition day. This is coming from personal experience as well as things that I've observed with other competitors. So here's a scenario. trening is going well and you have high hopes for performance on comp day, but on comp day the weight ends up feelinGHeavier than it should, or you burn out quicker than you planned. You've been chasing this carrot for the past few months and now that it's right in front of you, you don't even reach out to grab it. What happened? What happened? Here are a few possibilities. Number one, you peaked too early, just like that dude from high school named Marcus. Most competitors spend three to four months preparing for a competition or a meet. During that time, they might ramp up for a month and then have a month where trening volume is highest. Then they spend a few weeks pushing intensity before ramping back down for the competition. The challenging part of this is to accurately time the peak. Ideally, you feel strongest, fast, and most motivated on competition day. Sometimes competitors will hit PRs or at least comp numbers a few weeks out from their competition and think, wow, I'm ahead of where I thought I would be. I'm hitting comp weight and I still have a month until my competition. This competitor might not realize that they are at their peak. And unfortunately, you can't stay peaked for very long. So come competition day, they have actually already boarded the D tren and they don't even realize it. You see, trening puts stress on our bodies. We start to adapt to these demands and get stronger. Once we start stripping that stress away, i.e. tapering, we can now display the strength that we have built. But since the stress of trening is far less now, we eventually start to lose those adaptations. This is why tapering too early can be a problem. Number two, you dropped your pack too early. You gave yourself too much rest. We hope till we die. Too often do I see competitors tren really hard leading up to a competition. And then they decide to stop trening two weeks out from a comp. Maybe they'll coast for a week and then take a full week completely off of the gym. I've heard people say you shouldn't even think about touching a weight on comp week. The problem with taking a week off of trening or taking two weeks off anything that resembles hard trening is that you might run the risk of over recovery. During your prep, when you've been trening consistently for several weeks, your body has adapted to that stimulus and you don't get as sore and beat up as you did when you first started. By taking too much time off beforecompetition, your body can lose its adaptation to trening. And after the first or second event on competition day, you start cramping or getting weird muscle pumps. You know when you take a week or two off of trening, then you start back again with squats. And during just your warmups, your adductors start tightening up like a sore muscle. Well, I've seen the same thinGHappen to competitors on competition day. You go from being sedentary for comp week. So sedentary for several days to max effort, AMRAP sets and heavy carrying medleys. You might find that on competition day, you feel flat or not as explosive as normal. Well, if you spent the last week sitting on the couch, it's no wonder. Have you ever hit a PR in the middle of your trening block without a taper? I have, which tells me that IMight not need as much time off as I think I do. If you've been treninGHard and your performance is improving, don't pull a complete 180 and stop trening. What you're doing is working. Now everyone is slightly different. So your taper might start sooner or later than mine. Maybe you like trening multiple times during comp week while someone else prefers only one or two very light sessions on comp week. I'm not suggesting that you should tren hard two days out from your competition. If you feel beat up, exhausted, slow, and unmotivated, you might need some more time off than someone who's not feeling that way. But continuing to tren with light to moderate weights right up until your competition can keep you fresh, sharp, and explosive. trening during comp week should not be challenging. It should only be enough to remind you of what work feels like. Nothing you do two weeks out from a competition is going to make you stronger on competition day. That's too close. The work is already done. But the work you don't do matters too. Over-recovering can lead to issues on competition day. Number three, your warm-up strategy sucked. The warm-up situation, like the warm-up room, the warm-up area, warm-up equipment, is almost never perfect at a strongman competition or at a powerlif you meet. Your warm-ups might be rushed or dragged on because of delays in the competition. Sometimes when warming up for strongman comps, you don't even get to use the equipment. You have to do your best with bands, random plates, and bodyweight exercises. This is unavoidable and it's all part of the sport. But how you warm-up and prepare for your next event matters. All too often, I'll see competitors do one or two sets of whatever they're warming up for. Then they'll sit or stand around until they're called. Or they will do some static stretching before an explosive event. Doing this is failing to prepare your body for the next event. If I'm getting ready for a tire flip event, I'm doing squat jumps for height or broad jumps for distance. If I'm getting ready for a circus dumbbell or a sandbag or keg throw overhead, I'm doing explosive one-arm band presses or plyo push-ups. If I'm getting ready for a medley with back and forth running, I'm doing shuttle runs to let my ankles, knees, and hips know what's coming. If I'm getting ready for a max rep event, I'm making sure that my muscles are warm and full of blood by doinGHigh rep bodyweight exercises. You know how sometimes your first set in a workout feels like crap? Then the second one feels better? Don't let your competition set feel like that first set. At California's Strongest Man last year, I saw some guys do a couple tire flips right before the event started. Then they stood there and they waited until it was their turn. Up to 20 minutes later, the whistle blows, pop, win a calf. The whistle blows, pop, win a hamstring. I'm not pretending that I'm invincible, but I firmly believe this could have been prevented with a better warm-up approach. In an effort to preserve energy, competitors will only hurt themselves by sitting around or standing too long and not warming up according to the task at hand. If you think adequately warming up for your events on competition day is too tiring, you're probably in really bad shape. Number four, you were focusing on all the wrong things. It's easy to get distracted by the crowd of people watching you. You don't want to embarrass yourself. You don't want to make weird noises and ugly faces. You don't want to zero an event while all these people are screaming at you to lift it. You don't follow the lifting ritual that you've been doing all trening prep. You rush your setup and you can't wait until your turn is over so you can just get out of the spotlight. You are focusing on all the external factors that don't actually matter. You need to redirect your focus to the task at hand. Socializing between events is totally fine, but once you start warming up, start zoning in on what's most important, the next event. Visualize your setup and your technique. Run through important cues in your head. Start hyping yourself up. Start blocking out everything else around you. You should have tunnel vision before your event. Number five, your trening routine is too perfect. You've got log press on Monday and then deadlift on Tuesday, then a rest day, then some light upper body accessories on Thursday, and then a rest day, and then a couple of strongman events on Saturday. IMake sure I get 72 hours of rest between upper body sessions and 96 hours between my lower body sessions. I've got to make sure there's 72 hours minimum between deadlifts and strongman movements. Now, I'm totally making up this routine, but the problem with it is the fact that you are trying to separate all the events to make sure you have the best performance possible at each trening session. The issue with this is the fact that strongman competitions feature five events all on the same day. Within like six to eight hours. Some competitions are two days long, back to back. If you seem to always flop on competition day, or you fizzle out after the first couple events, but your trening days in the gym feel good, maybe you should move some of those big taxing movements closer together. Try a couple of full body trening sessions like log press with deadlifts, axle clening press, and carrying events. Or try puttinGHeavy moving events the day after a deadlift session when your back is still fatigued from deadlifts. Get used to trening more than one hard event per day. Get used to trening in a slightly fatigued state. You don't have to do this 16 weeks out if you don't want to, but maybe start incorporating this four to six weeks out from your next competition. Perfect trening sessions don't always equate to perfect competition days. Stop trying to optimize your trening schedule for the sake of having perfect trening sessions. Start adjusting your trening schedule to better prepare you for comp day. This goes for powerlifting too. You should probably get used to squatting and benching on the same day, maybe even doing some deadlifts as well. Don't separate all your squat, bench, and deadlift sessions by 48 hours. Number six, you just hoped you would do well. It's on you to actually perform. It's on you to actually compete. That's the thing about competitions. You have to actually do what you want to do. Without the need to show up and perform, without the need to show up and compete, we would just work out on our own time, at our own gym, record it, and submit our results online and see what happens. Thankfully, that's not how competitions work. You have to make it happen right here, right now. If you just hope you do okay, you are just hoping that luck is on your side. You need to be ready to try as hard as you can to do what you have to do to earn your placing. I'm not saying that you need to lie to yourself and set expectations way beyond your abilities. You're not going to force a 100-pound PR on deadlifts. But you can at least say with total certainty that you did everything possible. You gave it your all, and you couldn't have tried any harder. I hope that helps. Thanks for watching, and always remember, TREADOWN TIME!