 What's up everyone, I'm Alan Thrawal, here at Denton strength gym in Sacramento California. Six years ago I recorded a video with Mark Bell, Silent Mike and Meg Squats, actually on another set of stairs on the other side of the building. In that video I answered thEQuestion, do you use steroids or have you ever used steroids? Yes or no, why or why not? And my answer was no, I have never used steroids. And I don't use steroids because I feel like I have a lot of untapped strength potential. Well, I have a lot of potential. Well, I have a lot of potential. Well, fast forward six years, come to the other side of the building and here I am today. I'll admit, well, my answer is a little bit different. It's still no, I do not use steroids and I don't plan on it. I don't want to be misleading, but my reasoning is a little bit different. So I'll admit my best numbers are most likely behind me. So after that video was recorded, I did, get stronger naturally. I went on to squat 500 pounds for five reps, deadlift 600 pounds, strict press 240 pounds and bench press 360 pounds. So those are my best numbers in the big four. And I don't think I'm ever going to surpass those numbers. I'm not saying that I couldn't, but I don't think I ever am going to beat those numbers. IMight chase new lifts for new PRs. I could get new PRs at my current lighter body weight. But I don't think my absolute numbers in the big four are going to be beat. So if we revisit my answer, I'm not using steroids because I have a lot of untapped strength potential. And now I'm admitting that I've probably used up all my strength potential and I've tapped into my natty reserve. It's all gone. It's on E. So what I now consider using steroids or testosterone, because everyone likes to talk about that and a lot of people use that in order to continue seeing my lifts go up. My answer is still no. So people used to ask me, they don't really anymore because I'm a skinny boy. But when I was bigger and especially when I was making a lot of progress under Austin, some people were asking me, do you use steroids? Even some people that were close to me were asking if I use steroids. And I said, no. And they would respond with, why not? I think a better question to ask and a question that I have asked myself is, why? Why use steroids? Why should I use steroids? So if we think about the answer to that question, if I think about the answer to that question, let's see. The first reason why I would use steroids or why you should use steroids, building muscle, muscle gain. I would put a lot of muscle on, just taking steroids, automatically put a bunch of muscle on. I know that everyone's response to steroids is a little bit different, but I can confidently say I would put on some muscle mass. I'd be jacked. I'd be even less body fat percentage than I am. Now it would be awesome. So that would be cool and all to have more muscle. But it improves absolutely no part of my life. My life does not improve any way, shape or form. I'm still, it doesn't make me a better husband, father or gym owner. It doesn't make me a better person. I'm still just the same Alan. I just have more muscle on me. So what's the point? Why, why does that really matter? Why do I need to take steroids, which do have some harmful effects just to get a little bit more muscle? I think that I would probably get more likes on Instagram. I'd get more views on my YouTube videos. I would probably get more social media interaction, more traffic. But taking steroids just for a little bump in social media interaction is just not worth it to me. And I feel like a lot of, you know, you watching would call me out. You'd sniff it out right away. I wouldn't be fooling anyone. Oh, Alan's on steroids. It's very obvious. So more muscle, cool, but definitely not worth it to me. Next reason why you should use steroids, why I should use steroids, it would make me a lot stronger. All my lifts would go up. That's a bit more enticing to me, but still just not worth it. So here's how this would go. I would use steroids. My bench press would increase 50 pounds. Again, everyone's got a different response, but I can pretty confidently say I would get stronger. So let's say my bench press went up 50 pounds. IMean, I would just kind of unsurprisingly say to myself, wow, steroids work. Yeah, cool. It worked like it was supposed to. I took steroids and I got stronger. I would just not feel proud of myself. I wouldn't feel very accomplished. So again, this increase in lifts doesn't really appeal to me. And as far as my quality of life, back when IMentioned with the building muscle, my lifts going up improves my quality of life in absolutely no way, shape or form. Taking my deadlift from 500 to 600 to 700 does nothing for me at all. I could make an argument that if I took my deadlift from a 95 pound 100 max to like 395, that that significantly improves my quality of life. But taking your deadlift from 400 even to 500 or 600 or 700 does nothing for me. It doesn't make me any healthier. It doesn't make me any more physically capable in my everyday life. Like I don't need to walk around with the ability to deadlift 700 pounds. So just bumping lifts is really just to increase some arbitrary numbers and make cool posts on Instagram, I guess. But with all that said, I think that using steroids for a boost in performance and athletic performance and strength potential is the only likely reason that I would ever use steroids. And it's the reason that makes most sense to me and I understand why people use steroids for performance reasons. If I wanted to chase strongman as far as I could, if I wanted to go to nationals and try to win, if I wanted to win clash, if I wanted to go to OSG for the 90 kilo class, and I really, really wanted to win championships and titles, that's the one scenario where I would consider using steroids because it makes the most sense to me. I understand, again, why people use steroids because they don't care about other things. They don't care about anything other than winning a championship or a title. Not everyone who goes to the gym is going to the gym for health reasons. They're going for performance reasons. They want to be the best at a strength sport. So I understand that. And I am not at the point in my life right now where I want to chase strongman that far. I don't have the will, desire, or motivation to tren as hard as I can to try to win nationals or to try to go to OSG. So I'm not going to take steroids. I just like competing in local competitions and I like doing strongman in my own trening. And there's no way in hell I would ever take steroids just to do better at local competitions. And if you are flirting with the idea of using steroids because you want to be better at these local competitions, you are not going very far past that. If you want to be the best, you should be winning local competitions as a natural competitor. But anyways, I'm kind of getting distracted here. So I understand that some people use steroids to increase their performance so that they can be the best at their sport. And that's the only reason really in my head that makes sense. But it's not where I'm at in my life. Now, if I was more jacked, less body fat, looked better, I was stronger, I could certainly monetize all that on social media. I could sell a diet plan subscription for my secret to six-pack abs. I could have my 700-pound deadlift program, buy it now, buy my muscle building program. I could monetize all this the way a lot of people do. But I've got some integrity. And I would never lie to people and be misleading to suggest that this product or this program is what bumped me up 30 pounds of muscle in one year. And again, like IMentioned earlier, I think that a lot of people following would sniff it out. And they'd call me out right away and say, okay, I only got on steroids, gained a bunch of muscle, got really strong, and now he's selling us a program. It's just phony and it's fake. And I don't want to do that. On top of that, I have already proven to myself that I can get a decent amount of subscribers and followers and views on my videos just being a natural dude. I don't need to look like a salami scrotum or some sunburned nutsack just to try to sell something. Or not even sell something, just to try to teach something on social media. So I've already proven to myself that I don't need all that stuff in order to get people to watch videos. So those are the main reasons why I would use steroids or why you should use steroids, I guess. More muscle, stronger lifts, better performance. All of which I would rather just chase naturally and try to kind of take the scenic route to see what I can do in my lifetime. I'm not really concerned with getting all of that right now. And IMean, a more obvious consideration is why not use steroids. Steroids are hard drugs. It's not heroin, but they're still hard drugs that have serious physiological effects that could have negative long-term effects. There's definitely some psychological effects. And anything with a higher probability of affecting my health negatively is a big capital N-O for me. From a dude who doesn't even drink energy drinks, I don't even drink caffeinated coffee more than, you know, like, I don't even drink that two days in a row just because I don't like having that much caffeine. I guess I'm a baby when it comes to taking stuff, popping pills, or injecting stuff. So personally, no, I'm not going to do it. Another big reason for me not to use steroids. So I've kind of passed this why should I use steroids, but why I would not use steroids. I would not, I know that I would have this black cloud following me around every day, whispering in my ear, As soon as you get off this, you're going back to nothing. You ain't shit without me, Alan. Having the thought of losing everything, nothing sticking around, I'm losing it all once I stop using this, Would honestly probably enough to keep me to keep taking it and just take it longer and longer and longer. Because I don't want to have that huge negative impact on my trening. I get a lot of joy and fulfillment out of trening and lifting weights. And I would hate for trening to be just a burden. And it would just not be fun anymore because I'm off steroids and it just sucks and it's hard. And I'm just a fraction of what I used to be. I would hate that. I'm at the point right now in my life where I am trying to build as much muscle naturally, improve my fitness and my strength as much as I can right now. So that by the time I'm 60 and 70, I have more muscle and fitness available. I know that there's going to be this slight decline as I age. And I want to try to hold on and preserve as much muscle and fitness and health as I can. And I know that if I was using steroids for 5 years or 10 years and then I jumped off, I would just be speeding up that decline process. And that's a big no thanks from me. So anyways, I feel like I don't want to sound too preachy, but I feel like we can all try to build as much muscle as possible. If you care about aesthetics, you try to look as good as possible through diet and nutrition. And I want to try to get as strong as possible, all naturally. And if I really do everything I can to get as much muscle as I can naturally, and to get as strong as I can naturally, and if you do those things and you end up a little bit short of where you want to be because your genetics limits you, I don't see why you can't be happy about that. Just to say, well, I did my best. This is what I've been dealt. I feel good about myself. But to fall short of where you want to be or where you think you need to be because of genetics and then getting upset about it and just saying, well, I'm going to take steroids just so I can have more muscle and lift more weights in the gym. To me, that just seems like a sore loser. And anyways, that's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, TREADON TIME!