 Hey everyone, I'm Alan Thrawl, here at Untame Strength, Gym in Sacramento, California, California, and in this video, I want to talk about why your first rep of a deadlift set feels harder than the second and the third and the fourth rep. It makes no sense. It's a gym mystery. Like, why do bumper plates feel lighter than iron plates? Why is it easier for me to squat deep on front squats but not back squats? I've been lifting consistently for the past five years. Why do I still look like I don't lift? We may never know, but I can talk about some possible reasons why your first rep on deadlifts feels so much slower than the second. This is a deadlift is a deadlift is a deadlift is a deadlift. This is a deadlift. This is a deadlift. This is commonly seen with a deadlift only because when comparing it to the squat and bench press, we see that unlike the squat and bench press, the deadlift does not start with an eccentric portion. The main function or the main point of the exercise happens immediately. Pick it up. During the squat and bench, you start with an eccentric movement, which is lengthening the muscles. It allows you to load the spring as an analogy. It allows you to find your balance, bar path, groove, helps you build some tension and tighten the muscles. You can also use the tightness all before the concentric movement, the part where your muscles shorten or contract. Since the deadlift doesn't really give you any feedback at the start, figuring out positioning is crucial if you wish to really improve your deadlift performance. The eccentric portion of the squat and bench allows you to build some tightness before doing the lift. For the deadlift, it's up to you to create that tightness against the barbell before you pick it up. In my recent how to deadlift video, I talk about feelinGHeavy in your hands, also feelinGHeavy in your feet. And tight throughout your back and torso. Getting as tight as you can against the barbell allows you to better feel your starting position, rather than loosey-goosey, grip and rip, pull and pray. If you feel that your second rep moves better than your first rep on deadlifts, I guess the first thing I should address is touch and go deadlifts. If you perform touch and go deadlifts, your first rep is harder because you're pulling it from a dead stop. Reps two and beyond are getting a little bit of momentum from the bounce of the plates off the floor, but also a little stretch reflex in your muscles. And even if you think you let the bar fully deload on the ground, you might be pulling the second rep while the plates are still bouncing around a bit. Now, assuming you're not doing touch and go deadlifts, your second rep might feel better than your first because your positioning is better on the first rep. There might be some slight change in starting position from rep one to two. Personally, sometimes I have a problem with sitting my hips down and bending my knees a little bit too much on the first rep, and now my knees are in the way and the pull feels slower than I'd like. But when I set the bar down after the first rep, I do so by letting the bar fall straight down close to my body, hips back, knees back, so the bar doesn't hit the top of my knees on the way down. Sometimes I fall into a better position immediately after I lower the bar, hence a better starting position on rep two. There might also be some psychological reasons at play here. If you are the type of person who takes 45 seconds to walk up to the bar, 20 seconds to find your grip, 12 to 14 deep breaths, all sorts of self-talk, hopefully positive but probably negative, you are setting yourself up for a tough rep. Once you get past that first rep, you've got some confidence and you're no longer overthinking things. Please understand, if your first rep is slower than your other reps, don't worry about it, it's not that big of a deal. If anything, it's just something you have to tell yourself or remind yourself. Just get past this first rep and you'll complete the set. Don't sweat the speed of the first rep, whatever it is. Now, if you're a powerlifter and you really need to practice your singles because you only get one shot in powerlifting, I would suggest incorporating rest-pause singles or cluster sets. This would be a set of four reps, for example, where you pull one rep, let go of the bar, step back, and then immediately perform rep two, do the same thing for three and four. The reset is only for resetting your position. It's not an opportunity for rest or overanalyzing. To recap, make sure your starting position is squared away. If rep two feels better, pay attention to your starting position and see if it's different from rep number one. Stop dwelling on every thought in your head before you pull the first rep. Practice being deliberate with your setup on rep number one. Try holding a cadence in your head. Hands, knees, back, breath, pull. I hope this helps. Thanks for watching and always remember, Try it on time!