 Hello, hello everyone, my name is Alan Thrall, and I want to convince you to start doing more unilateral lower body exercises. For a very long time, my standard weekly strength trening program or routine featured two squats per week, for a couple of years it was actually three, and two deadlifts per week. This was done so with a heavy emphasis on power lifting and or strongman. When I'm not trening for a specific competition like a power lifting meet or a strongman competition, like a power lifting meet or a strongman competition, I really like performing one unilateral squat exercise per week. I really like performing one unilateral squat exercise per week, and one to two unilateral hinging exercises per week. So within a week, I'll do a squat one day, and then I'll perform a unilateral squat on a second day. I'll also do a deadlift or a heavy hinge like a good morning on one day, and then a unilateral hip hinge on a second day. If you've purchased my lifting and running program, you've seen some of this. Now my recent love for unilateral lower body exercises has sprouted my lifting and running program. I've been out of the way for a few reasons. Number one, it's low hanging fruit. Oftentimes when someone says, I want stronger legs, they use the squat as their measure of strength. They put all their energy into barbell squats, and rightfully so, the barbell back squat is the king of lower body exercises, and I don't care if people think that's a click-baity thing to say. However, if you can't devote all of your time, energy, and recovery towards back squatting multiple times per week, I think unilateral squatting variations can help you fill in the gaps. Now what do IMean by low hanging fruit? If you want stronger legs, and you really struggle to do stationary lunges with like 100 pounds, start there. Try to improve that. Pick that low hanging fruit that's right in front of you. Milk that exercise for all that you can. The reason I call that exercise low hanging fruit is because it's going to be less absolute weight than your barbell back squat, while potentially being just as potent for strength in your legs. That means it takes less time to warm up to you. And it doesn't cost as much systemic fatigue as a max set of five reps on squats. Now there are some freaks who regularly do unilateral trening and they'll do 405 or 495 reverse lunges. So they are using really heavy weights. But you're not there. That's probably not you. We can only hope to be there one day. So instead of only working to improve your squat, try to improve your stationary lunge too. My favorite unilateral squats, unilateral lower body squats, exercises that would be a squat variation or that involves knees, knee flexion would be stationary reverse lunges, walking lunges, and split squats, sometimes from a deficit. And I will say quickly that these aren't truly single leg movements, because both legs are still on the ground applying force, but it's close enough. Number two, very stimulating, less fatiguing. I don't care how much you squat. If you haven't done lunges in months, and you do just one set of lunges with even a fraction of your squat weight, you will struggle to sit down on the toilet for a couple of days. Lunging, especially lunging, causes a ton of DOMS for most people. But after like two sessions, that DOMS is far less severe. You adapt pretty quickly. This is because lunging is highly stimulating. Even some unilateral deadlifts, like kickstand deadlifts or single leg RDLs and single leg landmine deadlifts can produce a lot of hamstring soreness that I don't get from typical barbell deadlifts off the floor anymore. And I understand that muscle soreness isn't something you always need to chase. It's kind of like always chasing the pump. The pump or soreness is not necessarily indicative of a good workout. But it is always nice. It's a nice pat on the back when you wake up and you feel a muscle sore that you were trying to tren the previous day. It's a good pat on the back to let you know, yeah, you were probably doing what you were trying to do. Now, back in the day, if I was going into a squat workout and I was going for 455 for three or four sets of five reps, it would have taken a very long time to prep for, to warm up to, resting and performing it. But a few sets of lunges with like 185 could have been finished, done out of the gym by the time it took me to warm up to my first set of squats. And nowadays, as a busy father, I do not always have the time, the energy and the desire to give my all to a squat workout. I don't want to blow my load on a squat workout. A really heavy five by five used to wipe me out. And it still would if I did it regularly. I want to be energetic and alert from my personal trening clients and my gym members when we have classes here. I want to be engaged in playtime with my kids. No joke. There have been times when my kids want to wrestle around on the living room floor. And I just was laying on the floor and I'm like, I could close my eyes and fall asleep right now because I was just trening so hard and I was exhausted. Lately, I've had clients or classes at Untamed Strength starting in the 5 a.m. hour. And then a few days per week, I don't leave the gym until 7.30 p.m. My son might have a baseball game. It goes until 7.45 p.m. And then the drive home, by the time we actually get home, have dinner, do homework, get baths done, get lunches ready for school the next day. It is a sprint to try and finish all that by 9 p.m. So if on a good day I get to bed at 9.30 p.m. and I've got to wake up at 4 a.m., that's six and a half hours of sleep that I've got to work with. And there was once a time when I could get 10 hours of sleep during a powerlifting prep. No problem. I'd sleep from 9 p.m. to 7 or 8 a.m. But that's not what I've got to work with right now. And I'm not complaining anyway. I just know that this won't be like this for the rest of my life. This is just the chapter that I'm currently living. So max weight 5x5 squat, deadlift, and clens, and yoke walks, and farmer's carries. It's just not something that I do multiple times per week. Definitely not multiple times per week. But I don't even necessarily do it weekly. Sometimes it's every other week. Sometimes it's once or twice a month. This is also why I don't compete in competitions very often anymore. So anyways, this is starting to sound more like therapy. But my life is good. I get to wake up every morning at 5 a.m. and make some soup. It's the best. Circling back to my point, I can go really hard on stationary lunges and then carry on with the rest of my day without much effect on my energy and my attitude. And number three, faster workouts. When I would do big squat workouts or big deadlift workouts, it made my workouts feel like an event, something that took a lot of planning and preparation to do. And I just don't really view trening that way anymore. Working out for me has become more of a daily task that I try to fit in between family and work. I like how Jujimufu frames it as being part of his hygiene. You brush your teeth. You work out. It's just things that you do. So I would rather do a shorter workout, five to seven days per week, than three to four really big workouts. And I'm not saying that that's better. That's just what works for me. And I also don't want it to seem like I'm ditching big squat and deadlift workouts. I still like doing those. And I still do those if I have time. And granted, it is faster now because I'm not lifting as much weight. But you get the idea here. For me, I really like hitting some reverse lunges and some single leg back extensions. Boom. Let's me get in, tren really hard, and get out. I also nowadays enjoy doing more exercises rather than fewer. So instead of just squat, bench, and deadlift, I still like doing those things. But I also like doing lunges, unilateral hinging, dips, pull-ups, pressing, push-ups, arms, abs, jumping, running. So I've got to make time to do all of this. That's it. Thanks for watching. Check out my program's link below. And always remember, 10 on 10!