 Hello everyone I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all I'm all The real reason is I've been bench pressing with an axle bar for the past few months now and I've gotten so many DMs from people saying, Alan, why are you benching with an axle bar? What's up with the axle bar? That's not entirely true. I haven't got any DMs. Nobody's asked me about why I'm benching with an axle bar, but I just want to make this video. Quick interruption if you're watching this before December 21st, 2024. I am hosting a straw man workshop at Untamed Strength open to the public. It is going to be an in-depth coaching session on the axle clen, the log clen and press, Atlas stone load, as well as the deadlift. So sign up for it. I'll put a link to the registration down in the description. Thank you. So when you are bench pressing with just a normal barbell, there's two things to consider. A couple important considerations. First one is where you place the bar in your hands, how you carry the bar. And the second one has to do with bar path. So if we talk about how to hold the barbell in your hands, when you grab the barbell, this is just normal barbell we're talking about right now, you want to place the barbell high in your hand. So up towards your palm, not down towards your fingers. So high in your hand at your palm. That's going to place the barbell right above the bones of your forearms. So you are able to put more force into the barbell with the bar being carried directly over those bones. Rather than if the bar was back here in your hands, there's going to be this power leak in your wrist. It's also probably going to cause some wrist pain. And you also, when you place the barbell low in your hands towards your fingers, here, and you excessively bend your wrist, one, your wrists are more likely to move when you're benching. But also, you're not able to squeeze the bar as tightly. So try this out. Make a fist in the air like you're going to punch through a brick wall. You're going to notice there's a little bit of bend in my wrist. These knuckles are pointed up to the ceiling. That's the strongest position for a clenched fist. Now, relax your grip, bend your wrist all the way back, and try to make a clenched fist. You can't squeeze very tight. So just by putting the barbell high in your hand, right on top of the bones of your forearms, you're going to notice you can squeeze the bar much better. You're going to have better forearm tricep engagement. You're going to have more control of the bar. This is, to prove my point, if you watch power lifters, experienced power lifters, when they grab the bar for the bench press, they always put it high in their hand, right against their palm. There's actually something called the bulldog grip, where you place the bar very high in your hand, and then all you do is just put your fingertips on top of the bar. So you're not even wrapping your fingers around the bar, just fingertips on top of the bar. Also, power lifters use very thick, strong, sturdy, inflexible wrist wraps to cast their wrist in position. So they wrap it really, really tight with a clenched fist, so there's no bend in your wrist. You can't have this power leak when you're benching, because your wrist is cast in position. So that just illustrates my point that it's important to have a very slight bend in your wrist, and to carry the bar high in your hand over the palm of your hand. Some people actually experience some hand pain, or wrist pain, when they bench press with a barbell. I'm not making this up, but just earlier this week, one of the guys at the gym was benching, and he has this, some nerve in his hand that the barbell presses against, and when he's doing a heavy set, he feels like his arm like kind of short circuits, or like it, the power just kind of disappears as he's pressing, because it's pushing into this nerve, we're cutting something off. I said, try using an axle bar. Just by using an axle bar, going from a 28.5mm barbell to a 2, 2.5 inch barbell, axle bar, that's going to put greater surface area so that weight is distributed over your hand more. Now, the axle bar, in my opinion, takes all the guesswork out. You have to carry the barbell with that perfect wrist position. The axle bar is directly over your bones of your forearm, right in the palm of your hand. It feels much easier to hold on to the thicker the bar, and so that would be one benefit of the axle bar. If you have wrist pain or hand pain when you bench press, try using the axle bar. It also, again, like I said, just feels more comfortable to grab onto. I prefer using a thumbless grip, just a slight bend in my wrist. And the bar stays in place. When I'm benching and when I'm pressing, my wrists don't move as I'm pressing because they can't with the axle bar. It just, by default, puts your wrists in the correct position and you have to carry the barbell, excuse me, you have to carry the axle bar correctly. The second thing to consider when you're bench pressing, just with a barbell, is the bar path. So, to go over that bar path, the starting position for the bench press, you start with the weight directly over your shoulder joint. So, if I'm laying on the bench from this angle, my arm is perpendicular to the bench. That way, the bones of my forearms, I'm sorry, the bones of my arms are in compression against the bench. So, barbell is directly over my shoulder joint. That would be point A, the starting position for the bench. Point B is where you touch the bar on your chest. Now, that's going to be generally for dudes, that's right around nipples. Might be a little different for chicks. But generally, I'd say right around the nipple line. Might be a little higher, might be a little lower. That point that you touch on your chest is going to depend on your arm length, your grip width, how much you like to tuck or flare your elbows. Also, if you have a big arch, if you're flat-backed, if you're barrel-chested, if you're flat-chested, all those things can kind of determine where the bar is going to touch. But, wherever it needs to touch based on you, based on the individual, that point has to be consistent. So, you've got your point A, starting position, point B, wherever the bar touches on your chest, back to point A. Point B, point A. You have to ensure that point A and point B are consistent. Bar path for the bench press is extremely important. And if you are going to go with a, if you're going to try to do a five-rep max and get every pound you can, absolutely milk that five-rep max, it is important that you are consistent. Point A, point B, point A, point B. If you get, if that bar path goes off the correct trajectory, the rep gets stuck and it turns into a grindy rep or that's your sticking point or the bar comes right back down. You're unable to grind through those reps because your bar path is not consistent. When you are benching with a barbell, that 28 millimeter, 28 and a half millimeter barbell, that window of error, window of error, the window that's allowed for error is much smaller. You have to kind of thread that needle and be perfect with where the bar touches in your body. When I use an axle bar for bench press, a three, a two and a half, two and threEQuarter, even three inch axle bar, that window for error is much greater. So for me, I feel like I can, I can get away with being sloppier on the bench press really. I'm just as tight, I'm doing everything the same, I'm trying to be perfect, but when I lower the bar quickly and press, it just hits in that general area and it's good enough. I can grind through reps, I can grind through a set of reps when I'm fatigued or just grind through a heavier weight better, I feel like, with an axle bar because as I'm coming down, I can, it just touches in that general area. I don't have to be as perfect, I don't have to thread the needlEQuite as much when I'm doing an axle bar bench press. I kind of equate it to if you were to do a log bench press, you know, a 12 inch log, you're just lowering it to your chest and it's kind of just touching this whole area. You don't have to be perfect with where the bar, where the log is touching. The axle bar is kind of the same way just to a lesser degree, but I feel like I can be more explosive with the axle bar as well because I come down and immediately press rather than having to be perfect and slow and controlled with the barbell. So I'm not just making up problems here. Bench pressing with the barbell is fine. It's not that big of a deal. It's not that technical, but I just feel like those two things specifically, how the bar is carried in my hand as well as bar path is almost like I don't have to think about it. I can just lay down and press as hard as I can and just focus on grinding through reps. And so that's why I think the barbell, the axle bar might be a good investment if you're looking to buy one or if your gym has one, try benching with it for a few weeks and see if you like it. Now, I want to talk about specifics of these axle bars. Now, my face is going to disappear for a minute. Actually, I'll do the little home improvement Wilson here. Thicker is not always better. So this would be, I don't know the exact specs on this. A typical axle bar, I'm going to have to move the camera around, but a normal axle bar that you might find is two inches, two inch diameter. If you get something like this, this is a three inch axle bar. If you have small hands or salchisaderos, you might not be able to hold this bar while you're benching. It's too much in your hands and it will feel like it's going to fall out of your hands. But for me, it works. It's just a little on the too big side. So a normal two to two and a half inch axle bar is probably best. So let me talk a little bit about these axle bars. A, by definition, this up here is not an axle bar. This one here is not an axle bar. These are just fat bars, fat barbells. So an axle bar is a thick bar, but it's also a fixed bar. So it's just a solid piece of steel. The sleeve does not move. The sleeve does not spin independently of the shaft. So this is technically an axle bar. This would technically be an axle bar. These are fat barbells. Some of these bars, I can tell you what some of these brands are, but some of these bars, I don't know what brand they are. They're not marked and I've just acquired a lot of equipment over the years and I don't know where they came from. I got them secondhand. I didn't buy them from a website. This bar up here is the Alita TS El Gordo, I believe is what it's called. This bar here is from Rogue Fitness. I don't think it's on the website anymore. I don't know which bar this is, but this is a fat bar. This here is the best axle bar you can buy if you want a strongman, traditional strongman axle bar. This is the MB Power Center axle bar. It's solid steel, so it's not going to bend. Yes, axle bars do bend. I have a pile of bent axle bars at my gym and this is solid steel. It's not going to bend on you. It's a 70, that's a little less than 75 pound bar and it also has markings. So let me show you. The bar has a center line as well as these power rings and that's not completely necessary for axle bars, but it's nice for a trening bar. Competition wise, I think the actually, the one challenge of the axle bar, the purity of the axle bar is having an unmarked bar, but this is good for trening. These bars down here, so this is just a two inch, probably Rogue Fitness axle bar. It's hollow. It's like 20 to 25 pounds. This is actually just electrical conduit from Home Depot and you see here, so it's just a piece, like seven foot long, piece of electrical conduit and then I had these welded on, this little end cap so that the sleeve, the plates would stop, but you could easily just, let's see if I can find some collars around here. Get a collar. You don't even have to weld anything. Slide this here, put that in place and then clamp that down and now you have somewhere where the plates will stop. So you could just do that, but that would be the cheapest option. You'll also notice that these fat bars are knurled, which is nice. It's not completely necessary, but it is nice. So this has normal barbell markings, knurling and it just, the sleeve spins. So that might be nice if you're doing bench press because the weight can spin independently. It's not moving in your hands and then, whereas an axle bar, if the plates are on really tight and you're moving quickly or benching fast, you might notice the weight you want to shift around your hands because the weight is fixed to the bar. I don't have any here. I have some of the gym, but I do have a fully knurled axle bar. So it is a solid bar all the way through and it has knurling that is available. So that's it. Maybe I've piqued your interest and you want to start bench pressing with an axle bar. Maybe you've got hand pain, wrist pain or bench press bar path issues and this clens it up. Try it out. Let me know if you like it. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren on Time! Nah! I don't know if I go in front of you. I don't know if I go in front of you. I go in front of you. I go in front of you. I go in front of you. I go in front of you. I go in front of you.