 karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı karşı Untamed Strength has been around for eight years now and it is a, if you don't know, it's a small gym. Only one location, just a warehouse gym. It is not big compared to a big, you know, corporate chain franchise like 24 Hour Fitness or Crunch Fitness. So I feel like I can talk a little bit on this topic from experience. The great thing about small gyms is the tight-knit community. So you are pretty close with the other members. You become friends with the other members. You learn from them. You can train with them. New training partners. You get to compete with them. You get to share this hobby that you care so much about with other people. One of the bad things about a small gym is the tight-knit community. Sometimes people's dirty laundry is aired out for everyone to see or hear. Members start hanging out with each other outside of the gym and then outside or personal matters get brought inside the gym. And as easy as it is for people to start liking each other, it becomes just as easy for people to start disliking each other. I don't think this is exclusive to small gyms. I feel like this happens anywhere in the world where people regularly gather. It's inevitable that small clicks will start to form. So my advice for dealing with gym drama, stay away from it. Run away as far as you can. If a conversation in the gym starts to stray from normal gym training talk and it starts to sound like gossip, don't partake in it. Just get yourself away from it. If you yourself have something bad to say about someone, either keep it to yourself or go talk to that person that you have an issue with directly. If you don't feel comfortable with doing that, talk to an employee of the gym or talk to the owner of the gym. If nothing is done about it and the situation only gets worse, leave the gym. Some more advice. The only reason you should be joining a gym is because you want to train there. Don't join a gym because you want to find somewhere to make friends. Don't join a gym because you're trying to find that special someone. Don't join a gym because you want to pick up chicks or pick up dudes. Don't join a gym because you want somewhere new to socialize. I'm not saying that making friends is a bad thing. It's not. It's a great thing. But that should just be a byproduct of you being a member at the gym. It should not be your primary focus. Training and working out should be the reason you are going to that gym. Now the next thing I'll say is in response to a lot of the responses I got on Instagram about why people are intimidated by a gym. And they said things like they don't like the fact that everyone in the gym is just keeping to themselves. They have their headphones in. They don't talk to me. They don't acknowledge me. They seem kind of rude. They're very short with me when I try to talk to them. They just don't seem like very kind people. Now I'm going to say this in defense of all those gym members that you guys are talking about. People are in the gym for selfish reasons. They're in the gym for themselves. They don't owe you anything. They don't have to take their headphones out and say hi. They don't have to fake smile every time you walk by. They don't have to engage in small talk. They can be short with you. For a lot of people, the gym, myself included, the gym can be an escape. It's my me time. You never know. Someone might have had a stressful day dealing with people all day. So the last thing you want to do in the gym is talk to someone else. They might be pressed for time. So they have to get in and get out. They might be so focused on their goals they just want to put their headphones in and do their workout. So what I'm saying is sometimes people just want to be left alone. I'm not giving people a free pass to be rude. They can't like walk up and, you know, take the plates off your barbell that you're using. They have to give you the common decency as another human being or another member sharing the gym. But don't take their focused demeanor as being rude or don't take it personally, I should say. Now, if there are groups of people ignoring you or being rude to you, talking amongst each other but not talking to you or being rude to you, yeah, that's clicky. That's toxic gym culture, bad vibes, rude people. Not a whole lot you can do, but avoid it. I wish I had an answer to it, but I don't. It sucks, I know. The first reason, my technique is just not very good and I feel like everyone is judging me. If you're doing any physical activity for the first time ever, I don't really expect your technique to be very good. If you're joining a tennis club, a dance club, a parkour gym, rock climbing gym, maybe you're going to swim laps in a local public pool and you're not very experienced in those activities, I don't expect your technique to be as good as someone who is more experienced than you. And that is O-K. And judging by the amount of responses I got about people being intimidated by a gym for fear of judgment for their bad technique, rest assured, it seems like everyone's a little bit self-conscious of their bad technique. So the feeling is mutual. I'd say 99% of people in the gym are concerned with their own technique, their own goals, their own body image, not yours. And the 1% who does judge you are probably douchebags. So why care about their opinion? Maybe you're not even concerned with judgment from others, you're just concerned with your bad technique because you are afraid you might injure yourself. I want you to listen to this post by Mike Toucheur. It was about RPE, rate of perceived exertion, but as I was reading it, I couldn't help but relate it to beginners and lifting technique. Would you avoid teaching a toddler to talk for fear of them using incorrect grammar? No. We teach kids to talk as early as we can. We accept some error in the beginning and don't expect it to be perfect from day one. We don't over-rely on them being accurate or precise, but we encourage them to practice. Then they gain precision and fluency as they go. Eventually, they arrive at eloquence. But none of that happens without the initial effort. This is true of any skill. Riding a bike, learning to type, picking ripe fruit from the supermarket, cooking, playing Scrabble, or woodworking. It's all probably ugly when you first start, then you get better. It's okay to have sub-optimal, sub-par, novice-level technique, which I would just call not very efficient technique. You're going to be fine. Be more mindful of how much weight you're putting on the bar and how quickly. Also, how quickly you're adding volume to your current routine. Pay attention to how you're feeling going into the gym. Are you stressed out? Are you pressed for time in a rush, just not there mentally? If so, don't feel like you have to lift a certain weight. If you want to just get to the gym, plug in a quick workout, and go home, that's totally fine. Just use a weight that you can do any day under any circumstance with your eyes closed. A lot of new lifters that I meet think that they need to add more weight every single session. They have to do more, more, more. Doing the same weight two weeks in a row or three weeks in a row is just a waste of time. It's not. You can do the same weight for a couple of weeks. You can do weight until you feel comfortable with adding weight. I'm not discouraging you from putting weight on the bar. I'm just saying that you don't need to feel pressured into lifting a certain amount of weight because lifting any less means that you're judged by other people. Second reason. I'm too weak, too fat, too skinny, physically inferior. Your words, not mine. Kind of the same answer that I gave for reason number one. Making fun of someone who's overweight while they're in the gym is about as ignorant as you can get. They are actively trying to improve themselves right in front of your eyes and you're going to tease them about it. The opinions of these people should hold no weight. Just ignore them. Thinking that you need to be at a certain physical standard before going into the gym is like an alcoholic thinking they need to kick their addiction before going into AA. That's not how this should work. The gym is not reserved for hot, sexy fitness models. All are welcome. Weak, out of shape, inactive, too much fat, not enough muscle. Please come. If you have body image issues, I encourage you to face your fear head on and just go to the gym so that one day you can inspire someone else who's in your current situation and hesitating to go to the gym themselves because they feel like they're physically not worthy. People who make fun of others in the gym for how they look probably have a very small dumbbell, if you know what I mean. I bet they have shirtless pictures of themselves up on their walls at home and they're most likely very sad and lonely. Okay, reason number three. Not knowing how to use equipment. Which bar shall I use for which lift? How does this machine work? Is there gym etiquette or unwritten gym rules that I don't know about? I plan on making a video about this stuff in the next couple of weeks where I cover these topics specifically. But in the meantime, I'll briefly touch on it. All these details are more important to know if you're joining a specialized gym like a powerlifting strongman or weightlifting gym where there are a lot more rules. In a commercial gym, I kind of feel like anything goes. As long as you are not damaging the equipment or a danger to yourself or others, you can float around the gym and pretty much get away with anything you want. Because commercial gyms, globo gyms cater to anyone and everyone, expectations are pretty low. You know, like, hey, please don't piss in the swimming pool, that kind of stuff. But if you're joining a powerlifting or strongman gym, let's say, there are a lot more things to think about. You might be wondering, which racks should and shouldn't I use? Can I use the monolift? Should I use the combo rack? What the hell is a combo rack? Which barbell should I use for which lift? There's deadlift bars and squat bars, power bars, Olympic bars. Which plates should I use on a deadlift? Can I use iron plates? Competition plates? What if I'm not a competitive powerlifter? Can I still use these? Should I use bumper plates? Where should I do log press? I just put this atlas stone on this platform. How do I get it down? I want to use bands and chains for certain movements. Can I use it for any movement or are there only certain movements I'm supposed to use? How do I set up bands? How do I set up chains? There's just so much to know. I'd encourage you to ask questions. Ask employees. Ask trainers. Ask some of the more experienced gym members. Ask the owner. Nine out of ten members here at Untamed Strength would be more than happy to answer your question. That one out of ten who won't probably just doesn't know. So just ask around. Ask questions. Don't be afraid of people. Also, YouTube and Google are your friends. Watch strongman powerlifting or weightlifting videos online just to see how equipment is used, how it's set up, what type of equipment to use, certain specific details like that. Reason number four. There were a lot of women who said they are intimidated by the fact that there are no other women in the free weight area or there are little to no female members in the gym. I'm not going to pretend to know exactly what to say to this, and I think that my advice would be better received coming from a female, but I will say this. Women are welcome in the gym just as much as any man. The gym should not be viewed as, and it is not, a man's place and women are allowed. Free weights, strongman equipment, powerlifting equipment, just the gym in general. Free weights, strongman equipment, just the gym in general. Just as open to women as it is to any man. Don't feel like you are not welcome. Don't feel like you have to be invited. Don't feel like you are being allowed to use this equipment. If you do feel unwelcomed, I would suggest talking to the owner because he or she might not even be aware of what's going on. And if nothing is done to resolve it, you still feel unwelcomed. Leave the gym. Don't feel like you have to put up with and tolerate not feeling welcomed. Go spend your money somewhere else. And the last thing I'll say is if there are no women using free weights at your gym or there really aren't any female members at your gym and you want that to change, be the change. Inspire other women to start using the free weights or the powerlifting equipment or the strongman equipment. Maybe someone else will see you at the gym and just that alone inspires them to join the gym or to use the free weights, to use the barbells and any of the specialty strength equipment. That's it. Thanks for watching and always remember, Train on Train! Train on Train! Train on Train on Train on Train on Train on Train on Train on此此此此