 26% off all untamed strength apparel as a new year's discount, no code needed. The new year is upon us and I want to talk about a reminder that I'm frequently reciting in my own head and it is this. You're not that guy pal, trust me, you're not that guy. Okay. You're not that guy pal. I think this is a good one. I think this is a good one. I think this is a really good way to do some plyometrics if you're in a busy commercial gym and you don't want to jump all over the gym. You can just stay in your squat rack, get a couple of bands, tie them to the bottom, use band pegs, but do some banded squat jumps in place. You don't take up any more space than you would if you were going to squat. I think it's an excellent warmup. I also, for myself, one thing I've been focusing on with my squats is to use that balance at the bottom, use that stretcher. is to use that balance at the bottom. Use that stretch reflex. Don't go into it timidly and then drive up when you're ready. Drop down and get back up. Use some speed to your advantage on the way down. And so to warm up that stretch reflex, doing some of these squats where the band is pulling me down faster than gravity and then I'm having to quickly reverse that. Man, when I go into my squats as I'm about to, it's like butter, baby. Butter on a warm piece of toast. If you've been trening with a sense of purpose, you've been treninGHard for a long period of time, chances are you have gone through phases. Phases in life, phases in trening. Good morning. And you might currently be in a phase of trening or a phase of life that looks different from past phases. What are you talking to? I'm talking to the camera. There. I didn't cut anything off. And you might be so focused on the past that you are not able to make good trening decisions currently for the phase you're at right now. And you might also be too distracted by what other people are doing. Man, I wish I could do that. I wish I had that. I wish I could follow that trening program that he's doing. When maybe you're not that guy, pal. When this starts happening to me, when I start playing this comparison game, it doesn't happen often, but, you know, sometimes I fall victim to it. Usually if I start comparing myself with others, I'm pretty good at squashing it right away. But, again, it happens sometimes. IMight see what someone else is doing. IMight say, dang, look at all these weekly miles this guy's running. Should I be doing more? Should I be trying to squeeze in more miles to my routine? Or IMight see, dang, look at this guy's trening spot. This is like twice what I'm doing. Should I be doing a lot more? Or something I've been seeing on Instagram circulating again is, you need to be doing 10 to 20 weekly sets of this exercise. And I look back on my own routine, I'm like, man, I'm only getting like six weekly sets. And then I realize the dude that's posting this is 23 years old. He doesn't have a wife, doesn't have kids, doesn't really have many obligations, doesn't have a job. Literally his job is to go to the gym, record his workouts, and sell programs. Oh, and the dude's on steroids. Not hating on the dude, it's just a different life than what I'm living. And so I have to tell myself and remind myself, you're not that guy, pal. And it's not always just a comparison of me comparing myself with other people. Sometimes I'll compare myself, current self, with my past self. Having so much, pretty much all my trening logged on YouTube, and on Instagram, and just on videos and recordings, I can easily look back and see what I used to do. And I like doing that. I'm nostalgic. And I'm in no way like insecure of where I'm at and where I was. But I am reminded of it constantly. And so there are times when I'll look back on old trening sessions, excuse me, old trening routines, and I'll think, you know, should I be doing that now? It's not really like what I'm doing now. Should I be doing more of that now? When I know damn well that I can't handle that on my plate right now. Or I'll look at past numbers like a lot of us do. And then I remind myself, you're not that guy, pal. I also think about one of the biggest differences between my trening now and 10 or 15 years ago. I've made a video about this. Is that 10 to 15 years ago, I used to tren with so much anger and aggression. It was never unhealthy. It wasn't like uncontrolled anger. It wasn't like I was working through traumatic experiences. I just had so much focus and anger and aggression towards the weights. I would get so fired up for every trening session. I could run through a brick wall, put some weight in front of me. I was going to attack it with everything I had. And IMiss that sometimes because I don't have that now. I can pretend like I do, but I just don't have that internally. Now lifting is much more just a part of who I am. It's my routine. It's much more therapeutic. It's my alone time. Don't get me wrong. I still look forward to trening. I still get excited about it when I work up to my top set today. I'm going to get nervous about it and focus. But that anger and aggression just isn't there like it used to be. And honestly, sometimes IMiss that. And I just have to remind myself, you're not 22 years old anymore, Alan. You're not that guy. Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? Daddy? I also look a lot different than I did 10 or 15 years ago. Not only the hair and the beard, but also weight loss. I'm a lot lighter. Heaviest I ever was 255 at 6 feet tall. And I'm far lighter than that now. And so when IMeet people or run into people who really only know me from peak YouTube like 10 years ago, there's always some comment about my weight loss or how I look a lot different. Dang, man, you got really skinny. What happened? I have to explain myself, well, you know, my trening goals now are different. My priorities are different. My lifestyle is a little bit different than it was 10, 15 years ago. Things that mattered to me now didn't matter to me then. Things that mattered to me then don't matter to me as much now. And so I'm just sort of a new evolution. And so I tell myself, look, kind of a different person now. You're not that guy, pal. And that reminds me, I just recently saw this remake of an old C.T. Fletcher motivational clip. And in it he says, I want to crack the sidewalks when I walk down the street. And I used to get off on that stuff. I used to love that stuff. Yes? Hi, Benji. I used to love that stuff. You know, I love being the big guy. I like seeing the scale numbers go up. I like to take up space. I like to be the big, heavy power lifter. Or I like to go places and not be able to fit in public spaces. I can't, this chair can't hold me. I can't fit on the airplane seat. These clothes don't fit me. I can't fit into a suit or whatever it is. I just like to take up space. I like to be big, heavy, and strong. And I don't like that anymore. I like to be light on my feet. I don't need to turn heads when I walk into, you know, a public space. I like to just kind of blend in. And I don't like feelinGHeavy and slow and bloated. Those things I used to associate with strength. Now I just feel like crap if I do that. So I like to be light on my feet, eat smaller meals, feel healthier, blah, blah, blah. And again, you're not that guy, pal. Now, this isn't some sort of cope to say, well, he has what you want. And he's where he's at because, you know, he doesn't have limitations. You're not where he is because you have all these excuses that you can play into. It's not what I'm saying at all. And it's, this isn't some sort of like, oh, you can't be better than you used to be. Glory days are behind you. Just accept this slow decline until death. And that's not what I'm talking about at all. Obviously, you need to have some accountability. Be honest with yourself. Personal responsibility. You can't be a procrastinator. You can't be lazy. Those traits are like cancer. You got to cut them out. Don't feed them. But the reason for this message and the reason I remind myself of this is you have to be realistic with yourself. Stop being a window shopper. Stop looking at everything else everyone else is doing. Stop looking at all the things you could be doing or that you used to do. Stop trying on dresses that you have no business wearing, if you know what IMean. And I know new parents who still try to be the after work gym crew. I'm going to go to the gym after work. Going to hit it hard. Yeah, after work. Like when kids' sports is happening. Homework. Dinner. Bath time. The time when you're most tired throughout the day. You're going to go to the gym at that time because that's what you used to do. No, you're not. Stop lying to yourself. You're a new parent. You need to adapt or die. You need to wake up early and go to the gym before work. If you can't do that, go to the gym during lunchtime. If you're going to, oh, I'm going to be hungry if I do that, then drink your lunch. Figure out something. Stop pissing in the wind. Stop lying to yourself saying that you're going to hit the gym after work. I'm going to be the after work gym guy. You're not that guy, pal. And now on the other side of that, you might be a 25-year-old who's got all the time in the world to tren and you're taking advice from a 45-year-old dude who's got a different lifestyle than you. You can gain some wisdom from that older guy, but you don't have to do exactly what they're telling you to do. I remember when I was like 20 years old in the military and I would buy books on Amazon. I bought Starting Strength, Practical Programming, Strong Enough, other Mark Ripeteau books. And in those books, he talks about simplicity in trening and minimum effective dose. So he taught, you know, an example would be like, oh, just tren three days a week, squat bench, deadlift, overhead press, just focus on those movements. And I did do that, stripped down my routine to that. And I got a lot of progress on those lifts. I got really strong and I gained a lot of weight, but I just did not enjoy it as much as I could have because I was in the military, 20-something years old. I had no life other than the gym. That's all I cared about. That's all I wanted to do. I just wanted to be in the gym every day. It kept me happy. And so, you know, I'm like, man, another rest day? I wanted to go to the gym every day. And so I realized, okay, I'm like 20-something. This old fart rip is like 55 at the time, whatever. And I realized, oh, you know, I don't need to listen to this guy. He's much older than me. So you're not that guy, pal. I'm going to tren, you know, five days a week. And this is also part of the reason why I got into strongman because I could do my barbell lifts and then I could do some other stuff outside of that. But I realized at that time that I don't need other people to put limitations on me. That's not where I'm at. I'm not that guy. So if you have the time, the energy, and the desire to do something and you're in a different situation than someone else, by all means, pursue it. Chase it with everything you got. That's it. Thanks for watching. And always remember, tren On Time!