 Hey everyone, my name is Alan Thrall and in this video I'm going to be talking about New Year's resolutions. The New Year is upon us, 2023. It's time to reflect on our lifestyle and make some changes towards a healthier one and make some changes towards a healthier one and I'm making this vlog to show you guys some changes that I'm personally making. First up, we'll get right into it. First off, my diet and the sponsor of today's video. Meal Preparation H prepares meals for your home. They send me beautifully packaged eggs that come straight from the source. Traditional eggs come from a factory. Meal Preparation Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang Esang getting more at-home workouts. Working out at home is going to save time since there's no commuting. I don't have to wait for equipment or machines. And best of all, I can in my own bathroom instead of using dirty gym bathrooms. Which brings me to my next sponsor, Multiply, the strongest TP on the market. If you hate mud butt just as much as I do, you're going to love Multiply. Now what's the difference between Multiply and other toilet paper? Nothing really. Honestly, there's really nothing special about this product at all. But the company contacted me and said they'd pay me if IMet you in their video. So here we are. Use discount code MUDBUTT95 for a 95% reverse discount. You pay 95%. My next New Year's resolution is to incorporate more power and explosive trening into my routine. I've gotten so stuck with the, you know, falling into the trap of just doing the big three, big, slow, squat bench deadlift, squat bench deadlift. I've lost that pop, that A. So I'm going to start incorporating two Olympic lifting slots into my weekly routine. Snatches, clens, power variations, trying to move weight fast. And one thing that the Olympic lifts demand that the slow big three does not is triple extension. Speaking of extension, this brings me to my next sponsor of today's video, Triple Extends, male enhancement. Are you tired of underperforming in the gym, on the platform, and in bed? Me too. Triple Extends has exactly what you need. Now with triple the power. It's got a bunch of random plant oils and powdered flowers. And all of these ingredients have been scientifically studied in a science lab. So it's got to be good. Look, if you're in your thirties, like me, you are a dinosaur. You have no potential left. And even if you're in your late twenties, your man juice, your hormones are still approaching E. Men, low testosterone is a serious issue. You probably have it and you need to get it fixed right now. And I know you might be thinking, Ellen, you're not an endocrinologist. You have no formal schooling. You barely graduated high school. Why should I believe anything you're saying? Look, just trust me. Okay. I have hundreds of YouTube videos. I have hundreds of thousands of YouTube subscribers and this company paid me $2,000 to tell you that you have low testosterone and you should get it checked. Triple Extends. I'm tired of not feeling like I did when I was 16 years old. And I'm sure you feel the same way. Now you can get that back with Triple Extends. So I hope this video came off as genuine because it was, uh, it's raw. It's how I'm feeling. All I want to do is help you guys. That's the only reason I have this YouTube channel is to help you guys. The only reason I have made this YouTube video is to help people. And even if it only helps one person, I feel like I have purpose in life. Um, so I encourage you to go to help others also because it's just so fulfilling and speaking of helping others, my last sponsor of this video, SARMS.