Hey everyone, I'm Alton Thrall here in my garage, and I'm excited to reveal this new and improved home gym setup in the next video, probably next week. So this video is a response to a video posted by Natural Hypertrophy called Power Building is an Abomination. BaldOmniMan made his response video, and since then the topic has kind of been floating around, Basement Bodybuilding also made a response video, and it's even made its way to Instagram. There's been some posts that have been shared that I've seen, and so I wanted to respond to it and give my thoughts. I always feel like an old man when I respond to these things, because I'm late to the party. I want to respond, give me a couple of weeks! And I know that social media has this 48 hour window of time before something's irrelevant, but here I am, better late than never. So in his video, Natural Hypertrophy makes the case that it is nonsensical to pursue both bodybuilding and powerlifting in the competitive definition of powerlifting. Chasing a one rep max squat bench deadlift, changing leverages and technique and tempo in order to lift more weight for powerlifting. And BaldOmniMan comes back and takes a little bit more general approach to say that strength trening and bodybuilding are one and the same thing. They're both great videos. I am not here to echo their points. I'm not here to fight their battles for them. I will link the videos in the description of this video, or maybe I'll put it up in the corner as an iCard. Go check out those original videos. If you have an opinion, give them a piece of your mind in the comments section of their videos. So, let's talk about powerbuilding. So, the first thing I'll say about powerbuilding, you can do whatever the f*** you want to do. You are an adult. If you want to chase a one rep max 500 pound deadlift, and then go do some lat pulldowns, some curls, and bang out high reps of pullups, keep on rocking in the free world. If you are just lifting weights to meet minimum or basic resistance trening guidelines, and you prefer powerbuilding as your approach, that's totally fine. Keep doing your thing. If you are lifting weights just because you want to reap some benefits of resistance trening, you want to build some muscle, increase bone density, improve your mental health, joint, ligament, tendon health, and you prefer the powerbuilding style of programming, you are on the right path. SittinGHere and arguing about powerlifting and bodybuilding and powerbuilding is sort of like people arguing about barbecue online. Oh, you know you got to do marinade. No, it's got to be dry rub. Got to be salt and pepper only. No, you got to use this rub. Got to use seasoning salt and garlic powder. Got to cook it hot and fast. No, it's got to be low and slow. You got to use this wood, that wood. Got to use an offset smoker. No, it's got to be a gravity fed smoker. Got to use a pellet smoker. You got to wrap it in foil. You got to wrap it in butcher paper. You got to let it rest for eight hours. No, no, no, three hours is enough. Got to put sauce on it. Barbecue can't have sauce. Got to have tomato based sauce. Got to have vinegar based sauce. You can prepare and eat your barbecue however you would like and you can structure your strength trening routine or your weight trening routine however you'd like. If my sedentary, overweight, imaginary 60 year old uncle came to me and said, hey Alan I started doing Richard Simmons VHS tape workouts and man I love it. It's great. I would say that's awesome Uncle Thorell. Keep it up. Keep me posted. Or I guess to keep the topic the topic if he were to say, hey Alan I just started this thing called power building. Man, I love it. I would say that is so cool to hear. Let me know if you have any questions. I'm not going to sit there and tell him well power building might not be optimal for you for these reasons. That's because that imaginary uncle is general population. So with all that said, a lot of YouTube fitness, a lot of these videos that IMake, the videos that I watch, the videos that you watch, they are not designed or created to be the front lines of fitness information. These videos are made for the person wanting more. They are for a person who wants to improve, who wants to learn more about this new thing they're doing. They want to learn the who, what, when, why, where and how to everything. Let me use my channel as an example and my channel is not different than any other big YouTube channel. I have built this YouTube channel on videos about in depth analysis of squat and deadlift and bench press technique. The intricacies of the squat, a high bar squat versus a low bar squat, conventional deadlift, sumo deadlift, how high should your hips be for the deadlift, barbell and power lifting secrets. They are made, these videos are made for people who want to improve. They want to get the most out of what they're doing. Not designed for general population. Just like that barbecue example I listed, some people want to know how to make the perfect brisket. They don't want to know, you know, just put a little salt and pepper on it, 350 in an oven. They want to make the perfect brisket and the people who watch these YouTube videos are no different. We cannot deny the fact that there are a lot of people, the majority of people I would say, who are frustrated with their lack of progress. Whether that's progress in strength or progress in body composition or muscle building or body building. So these people have to do some digging on the internet, on YouTube to find answers to their questions. I remember a few years ago I was talking with someone about the most popular YouTube channels. Not on YouTube Fitness but just most popular YouTube channels on YouTube. And one of the most popular channels, it wasn't PewDiePie but it was a video game channel. And I remember thinking to myself, what in the hell would someone, why in the hell would someone want to sit and watch someone else play video games? Why don't you just go play video games yourself? I'm sure that those video gamers would look at me and say, why do you watch videos of other dudes lifting weights? Why do you watch videos about other dudes talking about exercise? Why don't you just go to the gym and exercise? We are the same thing. We're doing the exact same thing, me and these video gamers that I would judge years ago. These video gamers watch other people play video games because they want to know, they're stuck, they want to know how to level up. They're in a plateau, a video game plateau. They don't know how to get to the next level. They want to know how to increase their stats. They want to know how to level up. Maybe they want to know some secret tunnels and caves. Maybe they want to know cheat codes. YouTube Fitness is no different. The people who consume these videos, not consume, the people who watch these videos are wanting to improve. They havEQuestions. They want to get the most out of their journey. They go to the internet and they type in, why am I not getting stronger? Why am I not getting bigger? Basement Bodybuilding built his entire YouTube channel about this. He was a dude who started bodybuilding because he wanted to build some muscle and get big. He got bit by the power lifting bug. He started doing power building, probably favored a little more towards power lifting. He chased strength. He got his numbers up because that's what he thought he had to do in order to get big, in order to get bigger muscles. He got his numbers up to 225 bench for 20, 500 deadlift for 10, I think a 600 pound winner at max. His squat was almost 500. Then he realized, man, I'm still skinny. I'm chasing these numbers and I'm not getting the muscle building progress like I had hoped. So he's a classic example of one of these people who was frustrated. And so he went to YouTube and he's sharinGHis experience. People do spin their wheels and they get frustrated with their lack of progress. This is why they search for videos and watch videos of dudes talking to the camera for 20 minutes about minor details in lifting, power lifting, bodybuilding, strength trening, power building. They watch videos of some dudes sitting on an old nursery chair in his garage talking about lifting weights. A lot of what we talk about is specific. It's not intended for the general public. So while talking to general public about power building seems useless, kind of is, you're not going to see people talking about power building in men's health magazines or on Dr. Oz discussing the difference between power lifting and bodybuilding. It's not for the general public. It is for people who want to learn a little bit more. People who are trying to dig for answers. And I think this back and forth discussion is awesome. I'm not going to dismiss it as this is useless for most people. I'm passionate about this stuff and I like to learn about this stuff. So I love hearing this back and forth discussion. Now, I kind of want to talk about why we have this discussion in the first place. Why are we even talking about this? Why can't we just let it go? Why does power lifting invade the bodybuilding space? But it's not really the other way around. You don't see many bodybuilders giving power lifting advice unless they have prior experience in power lifting. Naturalheadpertrophy actually made a video about this, an old video. I don't remember the name of it off the top of my head. If I do remember, I will link it down in the description area. It's a good video that I would suggest checking out. But he talks about why power lifting dominates bodybuilding in the YouTube space. And he talks about the origins of the power lifting boom on YouTube mainly, not really social media, but on YouTube. And he talks about this community that was born through power lifting and strength trening. And it was a bunch of dudes who were passionate, who were wanting to be helpful, who were giving tips, suggestions, they were creating programs, and they were being down to earth dudes who you could relate to. And they were kind of breeding this welcoming environment for beginners. It's a very good video. I would suggest checking it out. I'm not going to really talk about the environment that he talks about in that video. But I think that I have a unique POV to all of this stuff because I don't just observe YouTube trens. I have coached a lot of people online and I've coached even more people in person. And I own a gym full of people from all different levels, all different walks of life. So I get to see firsthand, I get to see real time, the path that a lot of people take in their weight trening journey. And I can confidently say that power lifting is more appealing than bodybuilding. I realize my bias here because I own a power lifting gym, but hear me out. So maybe in the 80s when we were watching, you know, when young men would see Rocky or Rambo or Conan or something like that, they would be inspired to do bodybuilding. I think that within the past 10 years when people get onto social media and they see how popular power lifting is, it is a bit more appealing than bodybuilding. Someone who is power lifting does not need to be reminded that they are not bodybuilders. They know. They don't want to be bodybuilders. You don't have to tell a power lifter, you need to ease back on the bodybuilding. I'm actually surprised by the discipline of some power lifters. They say, you know what, I want to do power lifting. Boom. They find a program, they follow it to a T. Some people even start with power lifting. I've seen people sign up for a gym membership and they've never really been in a gym before and they start power lifting immediately, which is awesome. So power lifters don't need to be reminded that they're not bodybuilders. But if we flip that around, a lot of people who come into the gym just because they want to build some muscle or because they want to look better and improve their body composition, they might not call themselves bodybuilders, but they do in fact want to build their body. They will come into the gym and quickly be enticed or start to follow that power lifting carrot dangling in front of them that says, just get stronger. Just get your deadlift up to 500 pounds. You'll have everything you ever wanted. You'll be jacked and strong. And this is advice that I used to give myself. I remember, I don't remember the video. It might've been a Q&A. If I did remember it, I would plug in the clip here. But someone was asking me about, I don't know if it was generally about building muscle or if it was specifically about building back muscle, but they wanted to get bigger. And I said, just get your deadlift up to 700 pounds and you'll have all the muscle you ever wanted. This is a, that's a classic rip it toe response, but this is totally a cop out response. I had good intentions. I was trying to give them a big goal. I knew it would keep them busy. I know they would have to work hard for it and they would be doing a lot of deadlifts and deadlifts are good, but it is a cop out response. I know that this dude is never going to deadlift 700 pounds, so he can't come back to me and say, Hey, you were wrong. So while I thought it was a good answer, definitely was not the best answer. Probably not even a good answer. This is like him, the same guy asking me, Hey Alan, I need you to teach me how to save money. I have zero money in my savings account. And I said, you need to, you need to make a quarter million dollars next year. That's a big goal. I know he's gonna have to work hard for it. He's gonna have to stay consistent, but he's probably not going to reach that goal. Let's say he comes back to me a year later and says, Hey Alan, IMade a quarter million dollars this year, but I still have nothing in my savings. IMade more money and I spent more money. I never actually taught him how to save money. I never actually taught him how to do the thinGHe wanted to do. I just gave him a destination and I assume that everything would work itself out on the way to that destination. So back to the original statement about powerlifting being more appealing than bodybuilding. I think that powerlifting can be an easier sell than bodybuilding. I think this is because powerlifting is more addictive. Strength trening gives us tangible progress, measurable progress. I bench press 200 pounds. I want to get to 300 pounds. So my goal is to get to 220 pounds, 240 pounds, 260 pounds, 280 pounds, finally 300 pounds. And every time you hit one of those landmarks, it feels awesome. I don't need to explain the feeling of a PR. You feel accomplished. You get this huge rush of dopamine. I did it. Yes, I'm getting stronger. I used to bench 240 pounds. Now I bench 300 pounds. Look how far I've come. And even programs are structured six weeks, eight weeks, 12 weeks to where you have these goals and you get to hit those. And it's so clear and defined that you've accomplished that goal. It is very, very addicting. Bodybuilding on the other hand can be a little harder to gauge. You see yourself in the mirror every single day. You don't notice small changes. You don't just wake up one morning and say, Whoa, look at me. I'm jacked. Maybe you see an old picture, an old video and you see, Oh wow, I look a little bit bigger. Maybe someone makes a comment like, Hey, you're looking jacked. Maybe your clothes start fitting a little bit different, but you don't get that immediate tangible feedback that says you have accomplished your goal and even measurements. You know, you might say, well, I could just measure my arms and once I put two inches, once I get that 16, 17, 18 inch arm, then I've accomplished my goal. But I could gain 20 pounds of body weight and maybe put in half an inch on my arms. Is that a half an inch of muscle from bodybuilding? I don't know. You might even say, I really want to get bigger pecs. And so you take a measurement of your, your chest and you say, well, I'm, I'm up two inches, but is that two inches on your pec, your pecs? Is it two inches on your lats? Did your back? Upper back get a little bit thicker. Hard to tell. Little more gray area here. I kind of view strength trening more as a sport. It's objective. You are lifting weights in order to get better at lifting weights. Clearly defined, but with bodybuilding is more art. It's more of an art form. It is subjective. You are lifting weights in order to get better at bodybuilding. So there's a little more gray area. Strength trening is like learning a dance. So you do these moves with this song. And if you accomplish that, if you memorize all of those steps and you accomplish that, you have accomplished your goal. Bodybuilding is more like learninGHow to dance. Not as clearly defined, little more subjective. These two things are very similar, but they're not quite the same thing. So admittedly, it is hard not to chase strength. It's right there in front of you. You are lifting weights in order to get better at lifting weights. You are adding weight to the bar. It's right there in front of you. It's undeniable. When you squat bench and deadlift, it's easy to get sucked into how much am I squatting bench and deadlifting? How much has my squat bench deadlift improved? And you can't help but want to increase your squat bench and deadlift, especially if you're a competitive person. And to Bald OmnIMan's point, chasing strength is not a bad thing. Wanting to increase the numbers that you're lifting is good. It requires you to be consistent. It requires you to tren hard. You have to take a smart approach to trening. You have to chase hard sets. You can't tren like a sally. And I don't think any bodybuilders having this discussion about powerlifting, bodybuilding, powerbuilding, I don't think any bodybuilders would argue against what I just said. If you can only do three pull-ups right now and in one year you're the same bodyweight and you can still only do three pull-ups, something's not right. If you're doing easy bar curls with 35 pounds and next year you're still doing easy bar curls with 35 pounds for the same number of reps at the same intensity, something's not right. Something is up with your trening. So there's nothing wrong with wanting to improve those numbers. You have to want to improve those numbers. The problem starts when you're changing your technique, when you're speeding up your tempo, or when you're adjusting the program so that you're hyper-specialized to increase your squat bench deadlift. Or you're adjusting the program so that you are peaking for strength. At that point, it becomes counterproductive to bodybuilding. And this isn't a new concept. When I saw the video that NH posted, I didn't think, wow, this is groundbreaking stuff. You know, how dare he say this? Because this is, again, this is not a new concept. People have been saying stuff like this. Ripito said years ago that he stopped attending powerlifting meets because it's an embarrassment to strength trening. He has his reasons why. And more recently, Zack Tallender and Atlas Powershrugged were going back and forth. Well, not back and forth, but they were talking about this topic. And Johnny Candido, Alex Bromley all made videos and posts about how powerlifting is an abomination. And it is no longer even remotely, it doesn't even remotely look like strength trening. It is not what our forefathers had in mind when they created powerlifting. And Clarence Kennedy often says, often criticizes powerlifting for being a joke in the eyes of strength. He says himself, the reason he squats ass to grass, pauses, doesn't wear a belt, doesn't wear knee sleeves, is because it's kind of a spit in the face at the way powerlifting squats look. He thinks that it looks better. These ideas are well received. People are like, wow, this is genius. This is really, really smart. You know, I can't argue with that. So if people are saying that powerlifting and strength trening are no longer the same thing anymore, I don't think it's that far fetched to say that powerlifting and bodybuilding don't belong in the same sentence, let alone the same word. So where do we go from here? I would suggest checking out BaldOmniMan's YouTube channel. I know that Alex Leonidas also likes strength and bodybuilding, but BaldOmniMan, I especially like his YouTube channel because he puts a strength flair on his bodybuilding approach and his bodybuilding programs. And this is one reason why this year I started doing bodybuilding. It wasn't because I really want 18 inch arms and I really want big old juicy pecs. One of the reasons I started is because I was just watching these videos of other natural bodybuilders and I really started to appreciate strength expressed in many movements, not just squat bench and deadlift and not just strongman. I felt like I become, I was starting to hyper specialize in strongman trening and I just noticed the holes in my trening. I wanted to, you know, improve weighted pull-ups, weighted dips, curls, skull crushers, RDLs, pullovers, all of these, all of these things that I'm now doing and I enjoy pushing these really, really hard and I'm watching the progress come to me and it feels good. So in a sense, I am still pursuing progress and strength in some way, but the key here is that I'm making sure with all these new movements that I'm pushing, I'm trying to keep my technique, my tempo and my programming consistent. That way I know without a doubt that I am making progress in my numbers. I'm going to stop there. I'm running out of time. I got to get going. Thanks for watching and always remember, tren ON TIME!