 In this video, I'm going to give you a science-backed, seven-step process to fix your back pain. The method you learn is one that I've learned personally from the world's leading expert in spine biomechanics, Dr. Stuart McGill. Now, before we get into the corrective exercises, we first need to understand how you got here in the first place. Your spine is biologically and architecturally different than any other joint in your entire body, and therefore functions and operates under a different set of rules. For example, your hip and shoulders are ball and socket joints, designed to create a lot of movement and power. Your spine is not comprised of ball and socket joints, but instead, 33 individual bones stacked on top of each other, each separated by a disc. The disc has an outer section called the annulus, which is composed of multiple fibrous rings, similar to the layers of an onion, that are connected and function like a strong fabric. Inside the annulus is a gel-like nucleus, which is pressurized to a high degree as you move and perform daily tasks. Your discs allow the spine to act as a very flexible rod, giving us the ability to bend over entire shoes, twist to swing a golf club, and perform the latest dance craze. They also act like shock absorbers when carrying or moving loads. Now, our spine is at its strongest and most resilient injury when it assumes its natural curvature when we lift weights with good posture called neutral. Research has consistently demonstrated a neutral spine spreads load evenly across the spinal structures, preventing excessive stress concentrations on any one part of the spine. Now, to keep our extremely flexible spine from buckling when lifting, all of the muscles that surround the spine work together, like a guy wire system to a radio tower, to create stiffness and stability. So while a good looking set of abs may look great in the mirror, the primary purpose of your core muscles is to actually help you better control and stop excessive spine motion. Here's an example. This person is lifting by moving about his hips, while his back remains in a relative neutral position. This hip-centric motion, called a hinge, decreases injury risk when lifting loads. However, if he flexed his back while lifting, the spinal disc is bent, creating large posterior stresses on the inner nucleus. If this poor lifting technique is repeated enough, the combination of compressive load and spine movement creates shearing loads on the disc that will eventually cause the ring-like players of the annulus to loosen, a process called delamination. Similar to how the fibers of your shirt would unravel and open up a bit, it's stressed back and forth enough. This creates a pathway for the pressurized nucleus to now push through, and this is how a disc bulge is eventually formed. Now this is just one of the many types of back pain that I see amongst my patients as a doctor of physical therapy. In rest assured, the exercises I show you later in this video can very likely help you too, but only if you don't skip this crucial step. You see, the truth is that most people would see dramatic improvements in their back pain recovery if they realized it was the way in which they were moving during their day that was actually causing their symptoms. Today, I'm going to take you through five different tests and screens to help you find the movements that are triggering your symptoms. Based on what we find, I'll then offer you some different ideas for ways in which you can move throughout your day without pain. To start, if your pain is worse when sitting slouched and pulling up on the underside of the chair, or with bending movements and lifts like picking up objects from the ground, or especially deadlifting, your pain can be categorized as a flexion intolerance, often due to a disc bulge or herniation. If this sounds familiar, you need to learn how to avoid spine flexion when sitting by using some support for your low back and with bending tasks by hinging about your hips. The most simple way to learn how to hinge is with the shortstop squat. Push your hands into your thigh and simultaneously push your butt back as you slide your hands down to the top of your knees. The act of pressing your hands into your thigh creates sufficient core stiffness to help limit excessive spine bending, allowing you to move about your hips as you bend forward. Use this with everyday tasks like unloading your dishwasher and you'll notice that your pain starts to eventually wind down. If you need to pick up something heavier from the ground, use this shortstop squat and then drop your hips straight down. Grab the object, stiffen your core and stand straight up. The same goes for reversing a heavy object back to the ground. Hinge at the hips and then squat. If you're going to pick up a very light object off the ground, think about moving like a golfer picking up their ball by kicking one leg back and hinging forward on one leg. You can also try kneeling. Both options will help concentrate movement about your hips while minimizing triggering spine flexion. Now some with a flexion intolerance find benefit from lying on their stomach to relieve pain. If laying like this for three minutes reduces your symptoms when you stand back up, I'd recommend performing this a few times a day when you need some relief. If however you find lying on your stomach, arching backwards or creating an anterior pelvic tilt causes pain, you may be dealing with an extension intolerance due to a facet joint irritation or spondylolisis, an injury where one vertebrae begins to slip forward on another. Extension intolerances are common for gymnast, cricket bowlers and those in the gym who over-arch their low backs when performing certain lifts. In this situation, learning to maintain a braced neutral spine with the cue ribs down will help you avoid this pain trigger. Next, let's see how you respond to dynamic loading such as running, jumping or even the Olympic lifts. Raise up onto your toes and then drop quickly onto your heels. You may feel a shockwave of load shoot up your body. Note if this created pain. When you drop onto your heels quickly like that, you create spine compression. But when someone has pain with this test, sometimes it's because their vertebrae will slide a bit unambiently loading the disc and the facet joints on one side of the body. If this sounds like you, brace your core like this. Stick your fingers into the sides of your stomach, then activate your abs in a way that push your fingers away. Then keep this stiffness engaged as you perform the test again. If your pain decreased, you just proved to yourself that enhanced core stability will help you minimize spine instability and help you reduce your symptoms moving forward. If your pain was however worse with bracing, you're likely dealing with a compressive injury to the thin layer of material that separates the disc and the vertebral bones called the end plate. You see this sometimes with powerlifters who don't allow adequate rest between sessions to allow for appropriate abitations. If this is you, it would be a good idea to take a big step back from lifting at this time to allow your body to heal. Next, try holding a lightweight out in front of you at arm's length while you take a few deep breaths in and out. If this sparks pain, try that abdominal bracing strategy again and see if that changes your symptoms. If your pain is reduced, you again proved that enhancing core stability will be helpful for controlling your pain and you need to think about that bracing strategy in the same way when you do simple tasks during your day like picking up a cooler from the ground. If however your pain is still present, your injury is very low intolerant and you need to consider postponing your lifting workouts at this moment and having someone else help you with daily lifting tests until you're back and further heal. Last, if your pain is present when sneezing or rolling over in bed, you may be dealing with an instability. In this case, bracing strategies such as pushing into a countertop before sneezing or making sure that you're rolling your entire body as one unit when turning over in bed will be key for preventing painful micro movements. It would also be wise to avoid chiropractic manipulation in this case as you already have too much motion at certain joints. Now I can't stress how important it is to perform these types of tests when you have back pain or any type of injury. That's why I wrote my book Rebuilding Milo. It contains all of these tests and more to help you fix your back pain along with other common injuries. So when this video is done, go head on over to Amazon.com and pick up a copy of my book Rebuilding Milo. But for now, let's continue. Some of you may find your symptoms fall into more than one category. That's not abnormal. In these situations, it's key to try to maintain a neutral spinal posture throughout your day and move about your hips to help your symptoms wind down. Our next step to fixing back pain is to enhance spine stability with the McGill Big 3 routine. The modified purl up is the first exercise. Start by lying on your back with one knee bent and one leg relaxed on the ground. Have one hand under your back to support the spine. Take your other hand and push your fingers into your side. You're going to first pre-brace your core by engaging your abs in a way that push your fingers to the side. Then you will lift your head, neck and shoulders as one unit a bit off the ground and inch or two. Your focus of rotation will be your upper back. So don't just flex your neck. As you perform this movement, you should not feel your lower back flatten out into your hand. So think of your hands as pressure sensors and keep your low back in its neutral position with the slight arch. Hold this position for 10 seconds while you take small sips of air in and out before relaxing back down. This will be followed by the side plank to address the sides of your core. The most simple version is to lay on your side with your knees bent in front of you. Move into a side plank by squatting your hips up. Maintain a neutral spine the entire time. As you hold this position for 10 seconds, keep your core tight and you should feel your downside abs and even your downside glutes a little, helping you keep your pelvis level. After 10 seconds, squat your hips back down to the ground to limit bending your spine. A progression would be going to the full side plank and you could even lift your top leg if you really want to work your core in lateral glutes. The last of the McGillbig 3 routine is the bird dog. Start on your hands and knees with your back in a pain-free position. Rebrace your core slightly before then lifting your opposite arm and leg off the ground an inch. Without any spine movement, extend the arm and opposite leg. Make sure to keep your back leg close to the ground as lifting the leg too high could cause you to move your lower spine. Making a fist with your extended hand can also help engage your body optimally as well. A helpful cue is to think about pushing the floor away with your plant arm to help stabilize the torso. Take small breaths in and out for about 10 seconds while keeping the core braced before sweeping your legs back to the start position. Then relax and repeat. If this is too difficult, try performing the bird dog off a bench or a chair. If this is too easy, you could progress by drawing squares with your outstretched arm for the 10 seconds. As far as programming, Dr. Stuart McGill recommends starting off with 5-6 reps of each exercise for 10-second holds. If you would like a greater challenge, don't increase the time of the hold but add in more reps in a descending rep scheme pyramid like this. For most of my patients, I recommend performing the McGill Big 3 every single day, especially before physical activity, to enhance spine stability endurance. Another core stability exercise I find very helpful for many dealing with back pain is an offset walk. To perform, hang a light weight, such as a 10-pound plate off of a PVC pipe or broomstick. Stay as upright as possible while you take a few steps back and forward. I often start my patients out with 3-4 rounds before switching sides. Research shows that many who develop low back pain often have a decreased ability to sense spinal joint position and movement. Basically, they can't tell if they're in a good or a bad position. The bouncing weight creates an unstable environment, which activates small muscles deep next to our spine that sense the smallest positional changes of the vertebral bones, meaning this drill can enhance your body's awareness of position and movement, also known as proprioception. According to Dr. Andrew Locke, who I learned this exercise from, this exercise helps build a suit of armor from the inside out. The next step to our rehab program will be for those who have sciatic-like symptoms. If you have pain that radiates into your glutes or even down your legs, try this. The test to see if the sciatic nerve is at fault starts by sitting over the edge of a bed and extending one leg out in front of you. Start with your pain-free side, flex your ankle, and pull your toes back towards your body before then bending your head forward. Now do the same thing on your painful side. If this recreates your radiating symptoms, you would likely benefit from nerve glides. Sit tall with your hands behind you for support, flex your neck down while at the same time bending your knee and pointing your toes down. Then do the reverse. Extend the neck, kick your leg out, and pull your toes back. This cycle should be nice and slow, taking about 5 seconds. It should not cause any symptoms. Start with just 10 reps, and if this does not create any more symptoms, you can start doing this on a daily basis, but just not right after waking up in the morning. The next step in our complete back pain rehabilitation plane is to assess your hips and restore mobility and glute activation. Stiff hips, especially on one side, will lead to uneven forces placed on your low back. But before jumping right into doing mobility exercises, I'm first going to show you two tests you can easily perform to see if you have problems in these areas. If you test positive in any of these areas, I'll then give you a home exercise program, focusing on mobilizing those tight areas and restoring balance to your body to take load off your low back. The first is the Faber test, which assesses both external rotation and extension. Lay on your back and place one foot on top of your opposite side knee. Then let your leg relax and drop as far to the ground as possible. Make sure to keep your pelvis level as rotating your hips will throw off the results of the test. If you have less range of motion on one side, that would indicate a positive test. For test number two, we're going to look at hip internal rotation. This test is best done with a friend, so you can relax as the friend assesses how much you can rotate. However, if you're by yourself, sit over the edge of a table or a bed and rotate one foot out to the side as far as possible without your pelvis moving or your torso shifting to the side. If you have less range of motion on one side, that would indicate a positive test. Now that we've run through these tests, let's start constructing your individualized mobility rehab program. But before we jump into the exercises, if you didn't find any restrictions with those tests, you can definitely jump on to the next section. But if you did find some tightness, let's dive in. If you are limited in the Faber test, try the Kettleball weight shift. To perform, start in a kneeling position with your restricted hip up. Then open your hip by squeezing your glute before then shifting until you feel a groin stretch. Try five reps for a five second hold. If you are limited with hip internal rotation, try the assisted hip airplane. Find something to hold on to before then assuming a single leg RDL position with your focus hip as a stance leg. Then drop your pelvis until you feel a stretch in the back of your hip and your glutes. Try five reps for a five second hold. Now, if your limited hip internal rotation is also connected with a pinching pain in the front of your hip when you pull knee to chest, you may want to also try a banded joint mobilization. Place a monster band loop across your restricted hip and assume a lunge position. Holding onto a bench can help you get enough tension on the band without being pulled over. Then take a deep breath out and relax your hip while simultaneously pushing your knee across your body into more hip internal rotation. At the same time, drop your chest towards the ground. If you have enough tension on the band, you won't feel that prior hip pinch. Then open your hip while squeezing your glute and hold for three seconds. Reset and repeat this sequence four more times. Once we've established more symmetrical hip mobility, we then need to turn our attention to glute activation as back pain can often limit the glutes from firing optimally. The glute bridge is the first great step for most people to achieve this. Lay on your back with your knees bent. Push your feet hard into the ground and lift your hips without overextending your low back. In the top position, squeeze your glutes as hard as possible for five seconds. If this motion brings out pain, try pushing your elbows into the ground or behind you into a wall before you then lift the hips. Either of these tips can help enhance core stiffness and allow the motion to come primarily from the hips and you'll feel your glutes working really hard now. If you feel your hamstrings cramping, try pushing through your toes rather than your heels. Doing so will help disengage the hamstrings and help most people feel their glutes instead. The next step is to learn how to move about your hips by performing some squats. Here's what I want you to do. Start with a proper brace by pushing your fingers into your stomach. Engage your abs in a way that pushes your fingers to the side. Make sure your feet are firmly gripping the ground and open your hips up slightly to the side. Then you're going to hinge by pushing your butt back and leaning your chest forward a bit. Then perform a squat. Only go as deep as you can without pain. At first this may just be going to a chair or a box before coming back up. Start with your goals to keep your core braced and try to limit any spine motion as you move about your hips. Start with just 10 to 20 reps every single day. If this is easy and pain free after a few reps, you can eventually start adding some weight. But make sure your technique is pristine and completely pain free before eventually adding more load. The last step to fixing back pain that I learned from Dr. Stuart McGill that can help a lot of people is to begin an interval walking program. A general recommendation is to start with 2-3 walks of 10-15 minutes a day. Now if walking longer distances brings out pain, just go as far as you can without pain and take a break. For example, if you can only walk for about 5 minutes before pain sets in, try just doing 3 minutes every single hour. And eventually you'll start to notice that you can walk further and further without pain. Make sure that you're walking at a fairly fast pace while swinging your arms to get the most benefit from this part of the program. And to make sure you're not performing any exercises currently that are hurting your back pain recovery, check out this video on the top 4 mistakes people make when trying to fix their back pain. Number 2 is going to shock you.