 she had six disc bulges and she's getting back to powerlifting. How is this possible? Well, today I'm gonna show you how you can get back to lifting heavy with elite powerlifter, Brian Carroll, who literally split his spine in two. Boom! And he got back to squatting 1,306 pounds. Now, in order for Brian to heal his back and return to heavy lifting, he had to follow these four steps. Today, we'll reveal what you need to stop doing to allow your back to heal, what you need to start doing to kickstart recovery, how to actually return to lifting once the pain has gone away, and last, we'll go over what you need to concentrate on to make sure your pain doesn't return in the future. The first step to fixing back pain is a talk pill to swallow for a lot of people, especially if you're a competitive athlete, and that's take time off. Everyone's gonna be a little bit different for how much time off, but rest is needed to recover. I needed a full year off when I went and saw Dr. McGill 10 years ago. I needed over a year off and for a lot of people, that's tough to do. Now, here's the science behind why you need that rest. When you continue to lift and push into back pain, your tolerance continues to lower until even lighter loads can spark your pain. However, if you have adequate rest, you can allow your back to recover so that when you start lifting again, you'll have the tolerance to be able to lift pain-free. Now, while you're resting, you're not just going to be sitting around and eating junk food. You need to be proactive in building a core of iron. This starts with the McGill Big 3 Corsitability Routine. Let me talk about the common problems we see when doing this. Step one of the McGill Big 3 is a modified curl-up, but a lot of people just sort of pick their head up off the ground. They have no idea what they're doing, leg is hanging in the air. Here's what you're going to do. We're gonna start with a little bit of pre-brace, stiffen up just a little bit. Then your pivot point is right up here in your upper thoracic. Head, neck, and shoulders are one unit. Just come up a little bit off the ground, making sure that your low back does not move at all. And from here, you're gonna feel these core muscles working, and you're gonna hold this for 10 seconds, making sure to breathe for that time, and then back down. If you're doing this correctly, you'll feel your core working, and you won't feel any tension in your neck. Step two is the side plank. This is pretty simple, and a lot of people don't mess this up, but get those hips off the ground, stiffen that core, you're gonna feel your downside lat, make everything tight, even squeezing the fist up here can help with that. Bird dog, one of the most common mistakes we see is the head jacked up in the air, the leg very high in the air, and then a bonus, nobody's holding these exercises for 10 seconds at a time. A lot of PT's teach this exercise pretty well, but they're not teaching it to hold it for time, okay? So what we wanna do is stiffen the core, push the earth away, stiffen laterally a little bit, one arm, make a fist, put it up, raise it up, slide the right leg straight back, drive the heel back, raise it off the ground, just the hair. And there we go, that's a good looking bird dog, leg not in the air, head nice and neutral, stiffen, no movement, no lumbar spine. Now you may be asking yourself, how should I program to make Gilby three core routines? Well, here's what I do. I do a set of six for 10 seconds of each exercise, if I don't have a lot of time, if I have time, I do a descending rep scheme pyramid. Six reps, four reps, two reps. If you wanna do more, eight, six, four, two. But again, the hold is the most important. You must do a 10 second hold to emphasize that stability, to limit the excess of our unwanted motion of the spine moving. We wanna keep that spine locked in place while we move the rest of our extremities. Step number three is we're gonna be building tissue tolerance and allowing for capacity to expand. But what do we mean by that, Aaron? What that means is that we need to slowly reapply load to your spine, but not too fast or else we'll re-risk injuring your back. So what this means is we're gonna start off with the McGilby three. Now that's very minimal load on your spine. So almost anyone with really painful back should be able to do that without pain. Then over time, we're gonna slowly reapply load. We're not jumping straight from the McGilby three back to back squats. For a lot of people, if you're very sensitized, your back's just gonna start hurting again. So you're gonna start doing some suitcase carries. Three to four rounds, 35 to 40 seconds. And then eventually we'll get back to goblet squats, holding a weight on front, then front squats and then back squats. If you have pain at any part of this progression, it means you have too much load then your back can handle. And you need to take a pause and take a step back. And eventually you can take all those progressions all the way through. But be careful during this progression, make sure that you're going at a rate that your body can handle. And tip number four we have moving like an athlete 24 seven. A lot of people picking up load like a cooler, they won't even care the mechanics cause it's not like they're in the gym. And that will hurt their back. Instead what we do is we lower the hips down, we stiffen the core, and we drive our heels through the floor and lift about the hips and not the back. But what do you do if you're lifting something that's not very heavy like a shoe on the ground? Well Aaron you have two options. You have the golfer's pickup, where you have right here to get off the floor or if someone's a little bit more sensitized and they don't have the balance that you do, we're gonna lunge down and drop straight down and grab that shoe. Yep, there we go, very good. Now fixing back pain is a process and sometimes it can take over a year. So for more on how to fix your back pain, check out Brian's book, Gift of Injury in my book Rebuilding My Love, both available on Amazon.com. And be sure to check out this YouTube video we did on the four mistakes you could be making that's not allowing you to fix your back pain.