 There's a huge difference between having abs that show and having abs that help you go and move better. Traditional ab workouts that most fitness influencers share won't help you unless you have a low body fat percentage. And while six-pack abs may look good in the mirror, research shows the true role of the core is to actually control spine motion. Core muscles like this, also called usable abs, help you create more power out of your arms and legs when you lift, maintain better posture, and decrease risk of injury when picking up and moving loads, which happen not only in the gym, but more than you think during your day-to-day life. In this video, I'm going to show you how to build usable abs by enhancing spine stability through three different planes of motion. You'll learn how to perform some of my favorite core exercises in each of these categories. And stick around until the very end of the video because I'm also going to give you a simple plan you can follow to integrate these easily into your weekly workouts. The first plane of motion we're going to stabilize through is the frontal plane. Now, the frontal plane of motion is a side-to-side movement like this. And a lot of people will do side bends to hit these small QL muscles deep next to your spine. However, that's creating strength with movement. We want to create stability, so we want to limit side-to-side motion. So what we're going to start off with are suitcase carries. So he's going to stiffen his core and start marching while keeping his body straight up and down. So this is working those QL muscles to limit spine motion. Second thing you can do is start to do a suitcase deadlift. So now he's going to get down, grab that weight down low, perform a deadlift. But because the weight is offset on one side, that load is trying to make him tip over. So he has to resist that lateral motion and make sure that his body stays straight up and down. And the third one we can do, again, is a variation of the first suitcase carry. But I'm going to give him another weight, and he's just going to go mixed grip. So we can do the exact same weight. We can vary. We can go a heavier one up low or a heavier one here. You can change that up, and all of those different loads are going to vary the ability to stay upright and make it more or less difficult. So these are three variations of frontal-plane core stability exercises that you can perform. So the second plane of motion that we're going to stabilize through is the sagittal plane. And a lot of people hit this forward and back plane of motion with crunches. But that's not actually stabilizing our spine. It's only strengthening the muscles on the front side of our core. So what are we going to do instead? Let's flip on over. We're going to do a bare position pose pull through. So you're going to get into an all-force position, get up out of the toes, stiffen the core, make this nice and flat. Stabilize by stiffening hard, and then here's what you're going to do. Push down through one arm, take one hand, and pull across. You can either slide it or just pick it up. Get back into position, stiffen, pull across again. Try to make sure that everything stays nice and flat and does not tip up into an arched position or round it into a flexed position. Back and forth a few times. This is a very difficult exercise for all your core muscles to maintain this final position. Now, if this is too tough, what do you do? You can take these legs, straighten them out, and go wide with your feet. The wider you are, the easier it is. Again, stiffen. Don't let your body twist or go forward and back. Go back and forth a couple of times. If you want to make it more difficult, you can take your feet and start making them a little bit more narrow with your stance back here. But this is a great course-ability exercise that's specifically working on your ability to stabilize through the sagittal plane of motion. Our third and last plane of motion we're going to stabilize through is the transverse plane. Now, a lot of people want to strengthen through this range of motion with things like Russian twists. But again, we're not trying to move the spine. We're trying to resist motion and help stabilize and control the better. What we're going to do is get onto our knees and we're going to do it around the world. Here's what that looks like. Get into a kneeling position. You're going to stay upright, stiffen your core, grab the bell with one hand, and you're going to start moving it around your body. Now, the heavier you go, the harder this is. If you can't feel your abs working with this, you can probably use a heavier kettlebell. But you're going to go maybe 10 reps one way and then switch and go 10 reps the other way. If you are doing this correctly, you will feel your abs working hard to resist a twisting motion as that bell goes around. This is obviously from a kneeling position. Let's work that transverse plane in something that's weight-bearing through your feet as well. We're going to stand on up. What we're going to do is a suitcase carry like we did before with the frontal plane. We're going to add in a twist with the hips, which is teaching our spine how to better control and resisting a lot of twisting action from the spine. Rather, moving from the hips. That's what it's going to look like. You're going to do a karaoke to the side, move the hips, but control spine motion to not have excessive twisting from the upper body. You could go a couple steps one way and a couple steps the other way, making sure that we're keeping the core braced and moving those hips. If you're doing this correctly, even though this is a lower body movement, you're going to feel your core working really well. That's working in the transverse plane of motion. Here's how you can program these different core exercises in general weekly training. I've got a four-day split right here. A lot of people do a push-pull where they're going to separate their upper body and lower body in the way they're doing their movement. This is just a generic plan that goes off that. If you are doing anything lower body push, if you've got RDLs, split squat lunges on your first day during the week, what I want you to do is superset or have attached to it some loaded carries or the karaoke suitcase with that. On your loaded carries, typically what I'm looking for is to do three to four rounds of 30 to 45 seconds marches at a time. That way you're not necessarily going for reps, but you're going for your time. Same thing with the suitcase carry. If you're doing the karaoke, make sure that you're doing it for time so you're building that endurance. Day two, let's say you're doing anything upper body press. What I want you to do is your bare pose pull through. Something like this, go for time. Go for 30 to 45 seconds. Choose the weight that you can do and a position that you can do for that full time so you're not tiring out too soon. For day three, let's say we're doing the same thing with the lower body again. Let's go with your mixed grip march. Let's change up how we're hitting that frontal plane. Then day four, we're going to go transverse. We're going to go with the around the world no matter what type of training you're doing. You can still get that around the world attached to either supersetting with your exercises or at the very end as an assistant exercise. This is a simple way that you can think about programming different plane of motion core stability exercises through your week. You're not just focusing on one plane of motion, but you're treating that bulletproof core, core of iron that is addressing all three planes of motion to make sure that you don't have any weak links. All right, guys. I hope you enjoyed today's video for more functional core training exercises. Be sure to check out this video right here.