 N-aah! Last one! Make it perfect! You got it! Big breath! Stay tight! So Mirabai Chinou has been back in St. Louis with me for the past couple weeks as she kick-starts her training for the Paris Olympic Games. Now, if you don't know Mirabai, she's an amazing elite weightlifter from India who set a world record clean-and-jerk in 2021 and won a silver medal at the Tokyo Olympic Games. The first medal in her country in that sport in over two decades. Now, I've been working with Mirabai since 2020 and she's currently coming back from a few small injuries. So she's not ready to just jump right back in to her traditional really intense training program. So I had to devise a training program that could basically take her from 0 to 100. So I sat down and I drove a plan that would help her get her legs back underneath her and also kick-start her prep for the Olympics. And the plan I wrote up ends today with one of the most difficult squat workouts ever. Good morning! Are you ready for your big squat day today? Yes. Alright, let's get warmed up. So my first warm-up that I have Mirabai do is the McGill Big 3 core stability routine. And the idea is to stabilize the core so that we can get more power out of the legs. There's three steps to this. The first one is the modified curl-up. Hands underneath the low back. She's going to brace her core and then lift just head-neck controllers as one unit off the ground, making sure to breathe powerfully like she's breathing through a straw for 10 seconds. This is stabilizing the front of the core without bending the spine like a sit-up. So this is better for maintaining and producing better core stability. 10 seconds like this, she would do four reps of this. Now let's go to the side plank. So from here, she's going to make a fist and then come up into the side plank. Very good. This is great for people who may be dealing with any type of back issues because we're just going to be loading one side of the body. So this is working the QO, working your obliques, but frontal plank stability, which is very important for like a weightlifter if you're walking out of squat, making sure that we're stabilizing in this point of motion as well. 10 seconds. And then her third one is the bird dog. There's a couple of specific steps to make sure you're doing a bird dog correctly. First, we're in a neutral spine posture. She's going to push the earth away. She's going to brace her core and then punch out. Now in this position, she has to be able to do a full-distance push-up. In this position, she has to be very stable. I should be able to come up and move her around and she shouldn't go anywhere. That's how stiff the full body needs to be. Her heel is low. We're not too high. She's making a fist with her hand. We're going to get full body stiffness, breathing hard. This makes this a very difficult core exercise. 10 seconds. She stays stiff until she gets back to the start. And she's going to do three to four reps on each diagram. That has been the Gilbig 3. Her next one-off movement is the lock clam. Your traditional clam shell is just on the side like this. But it gets a lot more hip flexor than I want for her specifically. What we're going to do is we're going to take your top foot, wrap it over your Achilles, roll your pelvis forward until her belly button is touching the ground. Then she's just going to pick the knee off the ground without tilting back the pelvis. Let's try that. Open up and then back down. This is going to hit glute max to a much greater degree. For someone that may be dealing with some glute inefficiencies, they need those glutes to be primed more for their workout. This is going to get those glutes on fire. You're going to be feeling them working much better during your workout. For Mira, that was one issue that we've been working in to help clear up some lateral hip pain. I have her doing 20 of these before every single one of her workouts right now. The next exercise is a prone hip extension. Again, for someone that needs more glute max work, you're going to take your hands, put it underneath your pelvis. This way you're not rocking too high into hip extension and letting your back extend. We're just going to pick the knee up and back down. That's one of the main jobs that the glute max is to extend the hip. If we're having an issue in that glute max not firing, we'll get a lot of issues compensating in the low back and or front side of the hip. 20 of these, again, the glute will be on fires. This is a great one. We'll begin to pair with the lock clamp. Last, we do 20 reps on the belt squat machine. This helps prime the neurological pattern of the squat and really gets a ton of blood flowing to the quads, the glutes, the hamstrings, without over-effects in the rest of the body. This is a good way to prime not only the pattern neurologically at the squat, but also make sure that we're warming up the lower body optimally for squatting. So now that we're done with our regular warm-ups, we're trying to get to the barbell and start warming up for the big squat day. How are you feeling about this next set? Good. Let's go. Come on. You got it. One, two, three, four. Come on. Five, good. Six, come on. Seven, eight. Nine, ten. Good. Eleven, good. Twelve, come on. Thirteen, fourteen. Come on. Thirteen. Sixteen. Seventeen, come on. Three more. You got it. Good. Two more. Last one. Make it perfect. You got it. Big breath. Stay tight. Drop, drop, drop, drop. Time.