 The bench press is one of the most popular exercises in the gym for building serious strength and muscle size. But here's the thing, if you're making even small mistakes, you're not just leaving gains on the table. You could be putting unnecessary stress on your shoulders, elbows, and wrists. In this video, with the help of 11-time powerlifting world champion, Jen Thompson, We'll break down the four most common bench press mistakes that are holding you back. I'll then show you how to fix each one, so you can unlock better strength, more muscle, and pain-free progress. So let's jump in to mistake number one. A lot of lifters set up with a flat, disengaged back on the bench, and have relaxed legs, thinking that the bench is just about pressing with their arms. The fix, full body engagement. The bench press isn't just a peck in tricep exercise, it's a full body lift if done correctly. Step one, engage your upper back. Pull your shoulder blades back and down as you wedge your back into the bench. There's two ways you can set up. I like shoulders to feet. I get way on top of my neck, squeeze my shoulder blades together, put my feet down so I lock in my arch. And then you can also do the opposite way where you plant your feet and you grab the stanchions. Use your legs to push yourself up into your arch, again feeling like you're on your neck. Squeeze your lats and that you have tension from your shoulders to your knees to hold your arch. A key aspect to creating this desired back stiffness is engaging your lats. Now if you have trouble doing this, try the simple trick to enhance your mind-muscle connection. Try squeezing your hand under your armpit. This action will teach you how to fire your lats. Step two, you're now going to engage your legs. Drive your feet hard into the ground and create full body tension. To see if you've done this correctly, try this simple stability test. Have someone try to shake your legs while you're set up. If you're engaged properly, your legs won't budge. Mistake number two is allowing the bar to drift back into your fingers, causing an overextended wrist. During the bench press, your power production travels directly through your forearms. So the most efficient pressing movement is the one that creates a direct path between gravity pulling down on the bar and you pushing up. If you have an extended wrist, the force factors of gravity pulling down and you pushing up are not aligned, so the press is not as efficient as it could be and there's also increased risk of risk pain. The fix? Learning how to take a proper grip that keeps the bar stacked directly over your wrist to prevent excessive bending stresses. Now there's three ways to grip the barbell once you've assumed this neutral wrist alignment. Jen will explain. So of the three grips, there's one where it goes sideways, so kind of angled across. This is the way I like it, like this, okay? Or you can get deep in the center of your palm like this, or you could bulldog grip it like this. So find the grip that feels strongest to you, but always remember to maintain this neutral wrist alignment. Before we move on, quick question. What do your shoes look like right now? If they come to a point, that's a problem. Shoes like that crush your toes together, limiting how your foot naturally stabilizes, and when your foot can't stabilize, your lifting suffers. That's why I teamed up with Tyr to design three different gym shoes that all have a wide toe box to solve this problem. The Drop Zero Barefoot Trainer is ultra flexible, so your foot can move naturally and has a very drippy outsole. The L2 weightlifting shoe was built for stability, and it's the first weightlifting shoe in the world with a truly wide toe box, so your foot can actually do its job under load. And for the Elite Lifter out there, the Tier Force Elite Carbon Lifter. It has the same stable base, but a full carbon foot plate. When researchers at the LSU S Human Performance Center evaluated this shoe, they found athletes tended to have far less grip when performing a vertical jump, meaning wearing a shoe like this when performing dynamic lifts can allow you to express better balance, control, and performance. So if you care about your movement, health, and performance, that has to extend to the shoes you put on your feet. After this video, head on over to tier.com and pick up your pair today. But for now, let's continue with the third most common mistake you're probably making when you're bench pressing. Many lifters don't take a deep enough breath before unracking, or they exhale way too early, losing core stiffness. To fix, you need to learn proper breathing technique for the bench press. Start by taking a huge breath into your chest before unracking the bar. Think about your chest rising as high as possible during this breath. This will be slightly different than a squat, where you take your breath into your stomach, expanding 360 degrees before descending. With the bench, we want to push your breath into your chest as you create full body tension, because that's where the main action of this lift occurs. To practice this, don't just take a shallow breath. Doing so creates a small amount of pressure, and won't expand your chest much. Rather, take a really big breath through your mouth and even sneak in a little bit more air through your nose. Doing so will really lift your chest up high. The more pressure you can build in your chest, the more stable your bench can be, similar to the difference between benching off a soft sponge or a hard board. Now, if you're doing a heavy single, hold your breath through the entire repetition. However, if you're doing a light weight for multiple reps, hold your breath through just the first few reps for enhanced stability. Then, pause at the top, take another breath, and then perform your next rep. Remember, proper breathing will create full body stiffness, allowing you to create more power and have a safer lift. Now it's time for our last mistake, a problem bar pad. Many lifters will incorrectly lower the bar either too high towards their shoulders, placing too much load on the shoulder joint and increasing risk of injury, or way too low towards their stomach, which requires them to over-rely upon their triceps instead of their pecs to push the bar back up. Another common problem during the lowering phase of the bench press is when someone tucks their elbows too much, creating what's called a mousetrap fault. It looks a little something like this. This not only creates an extended wrist position, which we've discussed is not optimal for power and strength production, but it also creates an over-reliance upon the triceps to finish the lift, rather than the stronger pec muscles as the elbows are tucked way too much. So, the fix for a problem bar path for most people is to focus on these basics. Make sure the barbell is stacked directly over your wrists and your entire back, including your lats, are engaged like we've discussed in prior steps. Then raise your chest up and put the barbell down in your strongest position while maintaining the wrist and elbow stacked alignment. There's not one particular place on the chest that's most optimal for everyone, so go slow and find what feels strongest to you. Now if you're having any shoulder pain with the bench press, even after applying these steps, check out this video, where I'll show you an extremely simple yet effective approach to fixing any type of pain.