 if you want to grow your abs just to look better, there's a million videos on YouTube for that, but if you want to transform your abs into a strong and stable core that helps you move and perform better and decrease your risk of injury, you need a different approach that builds stability. Today, I'm going to show you three amazing exercises to build your core this way and explain how to program them into your workout with secret tips to perform that elite powerlifter Brian Carroll learned directly from renowned back expert Dr. Stuart McGill. Step one, weighted carry. Here's the beginner version. The advanced version is the upside down version. You're going to be keeping your core stiff and walking for 30 seconds. And yeah, we're using the new U-bell by Abmac. Holding just one weight rather than two will be a much greater challenge to your core. Doing so loads your spine unevenly, requiring all of these muscles surrounding your core to work just a little bit harder in order to keep your body from bending or tipping over to the side. Make sure that you keep your core tight. Get all the way to the 30 seconds. Then we'll drop and go to step two. Brian's going to be grabbing a ball. He's doing the advanced version of the stir the pod exercise. The advanced version is that the beginner version. Just a single push up plank. Make sure you're holding this for 30 seconds. Don't let your butt sag. Don't let your butt go in the air. Keep your core tight. This is excellent for working your rectus and especially the extensor muscles of your back. With the stir the pod exercise, start with small circles at first. Over time, as you can, start moving the ball through a greater range of motion, which will increase the challenge on your core muscles, both on the front and backside of your torso. After about 30 seconds, we'll go to step three. Now, I'll do the advanced version, which is the full side plank. Brian will go from his knees. We're going to come up like this. Keep your core tight. You'll feel the bottom working really hard. Keep your core up. Don't let your hips sag. We're just going to go for 10 seconds and then relax back down and then come up. You're going to do six of these for 10 second holds on each side. Keep that core tight the entire time. The great thing about side planks is they only load half of your trunk muscles, meaning there's minimal load placed on your spine. This means the side plank can often be performed even by those currently dealing with back pain. Now, when you're going to twist to the next one, you can either just move your entire body over or the advanced version is you're going to go here and you're going to roll. So you go to the center plank, keeping everything tight and then roll to the other side. 10 seconds, just like that. So that is the advanced and the basic version of the side plank. Programming wise, I want you to do two rounds of that after your squat or deadlift days. And that will help you build that core of iron. Now, if you want to more learn more about how Brian built that 1300 pound squat, check out this video for his five essential tips to squat max weight with excellent techniques.