 What is the best glute exercise for strong and pain-free hips? The glute muscles are crucial for human movement. They control the femur, stabilize your pelvis, and powerfully extend your hip as you run or squat. And of course, for being honest, there are also many people's favorite muscles. In this video, I'm going to evaluate the top eight glute exercises many physical therapists and strength coaches use based on the latest science. I'll break down each exercise and expose how well they actually work each of the three glute muscles, placing them on a scale of good status for Tier 4 all the way to goat status for Tier 1. And at the end, I'll show you what science declares as the very best glute exercise ever created. Now, before we jump into the exercises, let's briefly go over some anatomy. The glute max is the largest of the three glute muscles. It's also considered to be the most powerful muscle in the entire body. Its three main actions are to extend the hip, externally rotate the femur, and abduct the hip, which means move the thigh away from your body's midline. The glute medius lies on the side of your pelvis. While many in the fitness community only know of this muscle's ability to raise the leg laterally, its true role is to actually stabilize the pelvis and control for rotation of the femur within the hip socket. The glute minimus is the smallest of the three. Its role is similar to the glute medius in that it helps control the pelvis and stabilize the femur within the socket. If these three muscles aren't working together correctly, running speed and lifting power decreases, movement quality breaks down, and injury risk increases in areas like your back, hips, and knees. We're going to start today with one of the most popular glute exercises you'll see in a physical therapy setting for injury rehab, the lateral band walk. As you step sideways with the resistance band loop around your legs, you'll target primarily the glute medius muscle. This is a great movement to functionally train the glutes to provide stability for the hips and knees. It's going to prepare the body for movements common in sports in daily life, such as cutting and jumping by improving motor control. Lateral band walks can also be easily added into a warm-up no matter where you are to activate the glutes and hips before a workout or sport practices, as there's not any weight requirements. Unfortunately, a lot of people perform these incorrectly, allowing their knees to collapse inward with each step. This can indicate the band resistance is either too strong relative to their hip external rotators, or they just lack the awareness and need proper queuing. So be sure when performing to open your hips and work to maintain your knees in a straight line above your feet. Once your knee position is dialed in, you can also modify the placement of your band to increase or decrease the demand on your glutes. Positioning the band around your feet, for example, will be harder than the ankles, as it creates a longer lever arm for the glutes to open the hip and maintain external rotation to limit the band's inward pull. However, regardless of where you place the band for this exercise, the overall force is created by the three glute muscles is relatively mild. Ranking in this study on tier three for glute max and minimus while only as high as tier two for the glute medias. So while a good exercise for coordination and stability training, without sufficient mechanical tension, the main driver for muscle growth and adaptation, it's not necessarily the best for increasing glute media strength a ton. So let's find out if there's any better options. Next up, we have the hip hike. While keeping your stance leg straight, drop your free leg foot as far to the ground as possible, and then raise your hip as high as you can. This exercise is often recommended for those with a significant pelvic drop when running by teaching the stance leg glutes to maintain sufficient pelvic control. The problem, however, is if you only do it with your body weight alone, it's actually quite easy for a lot of people. In fact, this exercise recorded some of the lowest glute muscle force outputs in the entire study. However, the cool thing is this exercise can be loaded by either holding a dumbbell against your thigh or wrapping a weight around your ankle. And if the load is heavy enough to where 12 to 15 reps is difficult, we see the muscle forces significantly rise, especially in the glute minimus, making it all the way up to tier two. Now, before we get into some exercises that really work the glute minimus, let's look at some that don't really live up to the height, despite it being your mom's favorite from her old 80s workout videos. The side-lying leg raise, unfortunately, is not the muscle builder or hip sculptor that some have made it out to be in the past. While it is easy to perform and helpful for some in the early phases of physical therapy after an injury, its muscle force profile is incredibly low, falling into tier four for all three glute muscles. In fact, even if you load it with an ankle weight, muscle forces only rise enough to pull it into tier three for the glute medius and minimus. All right, let's look at an exercise that can load the glutes far better, even with body weight alone. The side plank leg lift may look easy, but it's no joke. Assume a normal side plank, but then lift your top leg. Our target hip will actually be the one that's closest to the ground. Those glute muscles have to contract hard to maintain the plank position. This is called an isometric contraction. Again, looks can be deceiving. Performing just five reps of this for 10 second holds will leave many of you with a really good burn in your lateral glutes. And when we look at the science, besides the glute max activation, this body weight movement actually falls into tier one for the glute medius and minimus. Now, I know some of you may be wondering, what about the glute max? Well, here's an exercise that really works that muscle. The hip thrust is probably one of the most well known glute builder exercises in the entire world. It's simple to perform and easy to progressively load over time as you get stronger. Now this study looked at the single leg version of the hip thrust. I really like this alternative for building healthy hips, knees and a lower back for two reasons. One, you increase the activation of your glute medius in order to help stabilize the body on one leg. Two, you can easily expose and clear up any differences inside the side control and muscle activation intensity that you may not have felt as much if you only ever do the double leg version. Now again, the main focus of this exercise is still the glute max. And if performed with body weight alone, we see it already land within tier two and only slightly lower for the other stabilizing muscles. However, if you use a weight within the 12 to 15 rep range and difficulty, we see all of those numbers rise, moving this exercise into tier one for the glute max muscle. All right, five exercises down, three to go. The single leg squat is probably one of my favorite exercises for hip health. Now don't get it twisted. I'm not advocating for a full pistol squat like you'd see at the CrossFit Games. However, I find that many of my patients that present with hip or knee pain when squatting on two legs almost always have worse balance and control when attempting a single leg squat on their painful side. So a crucial part of rebuilding a healthy pain free body is restoring the ability to squat with proper mechanics on just one leg. In this study, they had participants raise their free leg straight in front of their body and only squat to a depth to where their knee reached 90 degrees of flexion. So a partial depth squat and not a full pistol squat. Now I personally find positioning the leg in front to be a bit uncomfortable for some. So I often prescribe single leg squats with the free leg flexed just a bit behind your body called a shrimp squat or performed on a box or stack of plates called a touchdown squat. Regardless of which you choose, squatting on one leg works all three glute muscles fairly well. And if you add weight and move into the 12 to 15 rep range, it jumps up even higher in our ranking, moving all the way into tier one for the glute medias, as that muscle has to work really hard to keep the pelvis level in the knee from caving in. Let's now look at another exercise you can easily load in the gym to work your glutes, the split squat. Now the target leg is going to be your front leg during the split squat. In this study evaluated the glute activation when the participants kept their knee stacked directly over their lead foot. With just a body weight split squat, the glute activation numbers were quite modest, especially when looking at the medias and minimus. This is because with two feet on the ground, those muscles don't have a large demand placed on them to maintain stability of the knee and pelvis. However, if we load this split squat, those numbers do rise, especially for the glute max, moving all the way into tier one. Alright, we're finally at our last exercise. I saved one of my favorites for this last one, the single leg RDL. Unfortunately, many people perform this exercise incorrectly. They either drop too low, which increases stress on the low back, or they twist the pelvis open, which limits the involvement of the lateral glutes. Perform correctly, start with a light bend in your stance leg and your back leg completely locked out. Next, rather than focusing your attention on dropping the weight straight down, which can lead to the back rounding and not feeling this exercise in your glutes, we're going to think about this movement predominantly as a horizontal motion. Slowly hinge by driving your heel back up your free leg and leaning your chest forward. The weight will drop down as a side effect of this proper hinge. Only go as low as possible while keeping your back flat and pause for a second or two in the deepest position that you can control. If done correctly, you should feel tension building in your glutes at that bottom position. Another key aspect to proper form is keeping your pelvis level. If the hip spins open like this, you're going to see less engagement in the hip and pelvis stabilizers like your glute medius and minimus. So a simple trick I like to use to keep your pelvis level is to point your back toe directly towards the ground as you hinge. When doing this exercise with body weight alone, the glutes are moderately activated. However, if you add sufficient load and maintain proper form, like we just discussed, those numbers fly to the top of the charts, moving into tier one in all three glute muscles. For this reason, if I had to pick just one exercise that works all three glute muscles as well as possible, the number one glute exercise award goes to the loaded single leg RDL. Now, this doesn't mean you just throw all the other exercises out. When I'm working with my patients to help fix injuries, build strong and healthy hips and enhance performance, I pick a combination of exercises that work best for that person and their needs at that time. And if you need help figuring out which ones may be best for you to fix injuries, my injury fixed book Rebuilding Milo is currently on a massive sale right now on Amazon.com. You can check it out in the show notes right after this video. That's it for today, guys. Please subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. I'll see you in the next one.