 this is a work of art, this is bull---ed, this is a work of art, this is bull--ed, this is a work of art, but this, this is bull--ed. If you're looking to build your abs, you may be wasting your time with these. For one, you can't spot-reduce fat just to see your abs no matter how many sit-ups you do. And second, research shows the true role of your core muscles is to actually help control your spine, so you can lift with better technique, have better posture control, and decrease your risk of injury. Now, there's nothing wrong with most ab workouts, you'll definitely feel the burn, but did you know you can skip all of these, save precious workout time, and still train your abs very well by just focusing on spinal mechanics during your workout. Today I'm going to show you three exercises that work your core very well, but technique is key, so pay attention. Did you know a deadlift is an amazing core exercise, it's done properly? If you set yourself into a good sharp position, stiffen your core, get everything nice and tight, and then perform the lift while maintaining your spine position, this is an amazing core exercise. But if you don't train barbell deadlifts, here's how you can also train your core stability with the deadlift movement. You're going to drop the bar and we'll grab a kettlebell. This is a suitcase deadlift, and we're going to go with a kickstand hold. So you're going to have one foot split behind, you're going to have most of your body weight in your front leg. Now you're going to grab the bell, get everything nice and tight. Now, when we perform this deadlift, we are trying to limit any side bending because we have the load offset on one side of our body, it's going to try to tip us over into the frontal plane, so we need to stiffen and maintain that position as we go through the pull. So this is going to work your core like crazy, not only to limit flexion, which is the main force with the deadlift, but also now because we have load offset on one side to limit side bending side to side. So this is a very difficult core exercise, if done correctly. Let's go through one more motion like that. So you're going to get down to the bottom position, most of your body weight through your front foot. Back foot is kicked to the side, just up on your toes. You're going to stiffen your core, grip down really hard, then stand up, keep the core tight as you descend. You're going to start with a hinge and then drop back down. That is the suitcase deadlift. Did you know the squat is an amazing core exercise? If done correctly, if you stiffen your core and work to maintain your trunk position as you go through the squat, this is working your core like crazy. But if you don't train with barbells, here's how you can also accomplish the squat motion and work your core with kettlebells. We're going to go with a single arm racked kettlebell. Now, yes, you can do this with a dumbbell as well. What you're going to do is stiffen your core and start your squat and make sure that you're not rounding your back over or because we have load only on one side, not tipping over to the side. So this is an amazing way that you can work the core in a functional range of motion movement like the squat pattern. And if you want to, you can also go heavier. Let's grab that second kettlebell. You could go with a double racked position like this. Try these with some lightweight and I promise you your core is going to be on fire. So this is the double arm racked kettlebell front squat. Did you know that in overhead presses, excellent core stability work, if done correctly, your core when you stiffen it to stabilize here allows you to press overhead with maintaining good spinal positioning. But if you don't train with barbells, here's how you can also work your core stability with the press motion. Let's drop that. Let's start with a single arm press. Now, the reason we're going single arm is because when you're loaded on one side of the body, not only do you have to create core stability to be able to press the motion, but also we're limiting any bending side to side. So this is an excellent way that you can enhance your core stability with a functional movement like a press overhead. Now, if you found this video because you're trying to look for core work to help with back pain, make sure to check out this video before we do anything else.