 gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr gr For example, here I secure position by prioritizing getting my chest on him. Regardless of whether or not the guard passer has already passed your legs or they're attempting to, it's a good idea to manage the distance. What you need to do is manage the distance and not let them put their chest on you. As if they do, it'll be easier for them to control you. There are three ranges which to play guard from. Far range, where your foot or feet are between you and your opponent. Mid range, where your knee or knees are between you and your opponent. And close range, where you have nothing in the way separating your opponent from you. It's not wrong to play guard from close range, and I'm not saying not to do it, but I am saying to be in control and be aware of where the battle is taking place. And understand that there's more risk of being controlled from close range. Just having that in mind while you're playing guard should improve your guard. Think, I need to put things in the way in front of the guard passer. Barriers which prevent them from getting too close. For example, your arms, your feet, your knees, your shins, and even your head. Don't get pinned. You need to preserve your ability to move. Meaning you need to preserve your mobility. If you can't move, then well, you're being controlled and more bad things are likely going to happen. When you're pinned, you can't move. Which is why you need to prevent this. In wrestling, you lose if your opponent pins you by pinning both your shoulders to the mat. Although you don't lose in jiu-jitsu if this happens, it's still very bad. And often a precursor to losing. You should treat your shoulders getting pinned to the mat as losing, so that you remember not to let it happen easily. Remember, control the distance. And not just between you and your opponent, but also between you and the mat. When you're pinned, that means you lost the distance battle between you and your opponent, as well as you and the mat. This is why it's such common and helpful advice when people say to stay on your side in your guard. As staying on your side keeps one shoulder blade off the mat and better preserves your mobility. Control Mobility Your goal in your guard should be to preserve your own mobility. As well as take away your opponent's mobility. They are either going to want to move around your legs, through your legs, under or over your legs. And they can't do any of those if they can't move. While you might get hung up on, oh I want this sweep or this submission specifically, this may blind you to what's actually important. You need to first get good at not letting people move. When they can't move but you can, that's when the majority of offense happens. The lower skilled that someone is, the more I'll let them move. And the higher skilled that someone is, the less I'll let them move. This is why high level matches can end up being so boring. But still, it's incredibly important. So focus on controlling the guard passer's mobility first and foremost. Never let someone grab your head. It is essential to never let someone grab your head. Where the head goes, the body must follow. The head is attached to the shoulders. And therefore, control of the head provides control of the shoulders. For example, if your opponent grabs your head with a cross face, they can then use it to more easily pin your shoulders to the mat. Additionally, if they're within reach to grab your head, it's likely they've positioned their chest onto you. When you're in that close range, you're more susceptible to getting pinned. And control of the head is such a common and effective way to do so. So don't let it happen. Don't allow control of your head. Don't allow your opponent to take underhooks. Underhooks control the shoulders and make it easier for your opponent to pin you. Which is why letting your opponent take underhooks can be a very bad idea. But not always. I'll often let my opponent take an underhook so I can take an overhook. However, I'll only do that if I can ensure I can do so without getting pinned. Controlling the far arm is often the solution. If you don't control that arm, they may be able to take an additional underhook or a cross face, for example. Whereas if you control that far arm, then you don't have to worry about it. And you can use that underhook against them. Give a reason to let go. If your opponent has grips on you which you don't like, they're not just going to let go because you asked them nicely. Can you let go, please? No. Okay. Forcing them to post out is a great way to give them a reason to let go. All you have to do is move them to the side, forward, or back. So much so that if they don't post, they'll fall over. Causing them to let go of their cross face or underhook or whatever it is. And now, big thanks to the sponsor of today's video, Element. This isn't your typical sugar-filled sports drink. On the contrary, it's a science-backed electrolyte mix packed with sodium, potassium, and magnesium. These are key minerals that your body loses through sweat, which as you probably know, we do quite a bit of in jiu-jitsu. Element will help you replenish those electrolytes. It'll optimize your training by optimizing your recovery. It's done the same for me. I've been using it a long time now, and it's really helped reduce fatigue and cramping. You see, when you train hard, you need to recover hard as well, so you can be ready for the next training session, which is why it's vital to replenish the electrolytes that your body desperately needs. And Element is the right choice for doing so. And here's the best part. They're offering my viewers a free sample pack with any order. That's eight single-serving packets free with any Element order. This is a great way to try all eight flavors or share Element with a salty friend. Get yours at drinkelement.com. This deal is only available through my link. You must go to drinkelement.com. Prioritize your feet. My number one tip for passing the guard is to keep the guard player's feet off you. And the opposite is true for playing guard. Connect your feet to them. Your feet are grips, just like your hands, but even more crucial in your guard. Your feet are connected to the end of your leg. I mean, obviously. But that means that they're the extremity on your body that can create and maintain the most amount of distance between you and your opponent. Not only that, but legs are also much stronger than arms. So the feet provide the most amount of potential distance, but they also play a crucial role in controlling mobility. Different guards are just different ways of positioning your feet. Different ways of controlling mobility and distance. Here I'm switching from one guard to another, but that's not actually on my mind. I'm just making sure I keep my feet on my opponent, which translates from transitioning from one guard to another. Four Points of Connection Your feet are important to connect to your opponent with, as we went over in the last tip, and so are your hands. Together, this makes four potential points of connection. Generally, the more connection that you have to your opponent, the easier it'll be to control them. And I don't mean emotional connection, although that can be helpful. Three points of connection can often be enough, but it's hard to go wrong with four as something to strive towards while playing guard. Play more guard. It might sound obvious, but it's important to say, because I see people all the time refusing to start the role from bottom position, sometimes even if they're way bigger than their rolling partner. But for me at least, unless I'm starting standing and working for a takedown, I'm instead starting on my butt in my guard. Then when I get to top position, I'll feel better about it because I've earned it. And that way I get to work both my bottom game and my top game, rather than just my top game. It's hard to not have a good guard when you start the majority of your rolls there and do that for years. If in doubt, close your guard. In my opinion, close guard is the best guard defensively. The submission threat from the guard passer is extremely low, and close guard controls their mobility extremely well, as it offers so much control of their hips. However, it isn't always easy to get offense going, but it is great to use if you need to slow things down. So if things are getting crazy and you want to chill, close guard is often a great option. Submissions from your guard are great. However, they're not without risk. If you go for a submission, such as a triangle, for example, and you're unsuccessful with it and your opponent escapes, often the act of escaping will result in them also passing your guard in the process. So it's just something to keep in mind, that it's more conservative and safer to try and sweep and then submit in top position, rather than submit from your guard. This isn't to say never take risks and never go for subs in your guard. Rather, it's just helpful to be aware that there is risk. Start on your butt. Starting in your guard on your butt, rather than your back, is often a good idea. Simply because you can better reach for grips from a sitting position. When you start on your back, your hands are pretty far from the guard passer, and they may be able to pass before you can take grips, which control their mobility. By starting on your butt, you then have the option of falling to your back to play guard, once you've taken grips. Or you can just play guard on your butt in sit-up guard, making the position not just safer, but also more versatile. If this style of teaching really resonates with you, then I highly encourage you to pick up my Jujutsu Theory Course. It's filled with essential Jujutsu concepts that'll transform your game, and I highly recommend it. Go to JujutsuTheoryCourse.com to learn more. Alright, thank you for sticking around until the end of the video. If you're still here, please leave a comment or a fist bump, and I'll see you guys next time.