 3. Targets In the guard, there are many different areas where you can control the top player using your hands and feet. When it comes to your feet, there are three targets that are especially advantageous. In fact, most guards are just names for different ways you position your feet in these three target areas. These target areas are inside the elbows, the hips, and inside the knees. What this ends up looking like is as follows. The inside of the elbows, spider guard and lasso guard. With lasso guard, you use the instep of your foot in the inside of their elbow. It offers a ton of control over the top player's arms and shoulders. With spider guard, you use the flat of your foot on the inside of the elbows. This also offers a ton of control over the arms and shoulders. When it comes to your feet on the hips, this might look like holler and sleeve guard, where you grab the collar and sleeve with your hands and place your feet on the hips. Or reverse deliheva, where you place one foot on the inside of the knee and often one foot on the hip. When it comes to the inside of the knees, deliheva is a great example as is reverse deliheva. With deliheva, you use the foot of your outside leg in the inside of their knee. And with reverse deliheva, you're using the foot of your inside leg in the inside of your opponent's knee. X guard is a great example of one foot on the inside of their knee and one foot on their hip. I could go on, but I'm sure that you get the point. That the inside of the elbows, the hips and the inside of the knees are great places to position your feet. This is specifically true when your opponent is standing. When your opponent is on their knees, you're generally hooking or wrapping your leg or legs around one leg or their torso, meaning half guard or close guard, or placing your feet between their knees for something like butterfly guard. Lock a post and drive or lift and rotate. What you are doing when you're sweeping or taking someone down is either blocking a post and driving their body over it or lifting them up and rotating them. It's really that simple. It's not always easy, but conceptually it is that simple. Block and drive or lift and rotate. Combinations of both are possible too, but when you frame it like this, the objective becomes a lot more clear. Get and keep your opponent's hips on the mat. One of the major goals in grappling is to get your opponent's hips to the mat and keep them there, as well as keep your hips off the mat. Of course, in your guard you do have your hips on the mat, but one of the major goals from guard is to sweep, which is to get your hips off the mat. For sweeps, takedowns, wrestle ups, and most submissions and dominant positions, you are looking to get and keep your opponent's hips on the mat, which is why you need to prioritize doing that. Here's a great example of one of my rolling partners prioritizing keeping his hips off the mat. He would constantly pop his hips up and off the mat every time I briefly get his hips to the mat. I couldn't fully finish many of my attacks because he did such a good job at this, which motivated me to be more proactive and get the job done. You don't want to do work for nothing. You don't want to almost sweep or almost pass or almost take your opponent down, just for them to get their hips off the mat. So prioritize getting and keeping your opponent's hips on the mat, as well as getting your hips off the mat as an effective way to defend. Get your chest onto your opponent's torso. Some but not all submissions require this, but nearly all dominant positions do. You're either looking to get your chest onto your opponent's back or to their chest. The back, for example, your chest to back, and mount side control nor self, for example, your chest to chest. And often the sooner that you get chest to torso, the better. Many takedowns, for example, you get chest to chest or chest to back, and many passes, for example, like half guard or body lock passing, you get chest to chest. Passing chest to chest is a very smashing and controlling way to pass, and usually offers less risk of scramble starting compared to outside passing where you're not chest to chest. So keep that in mind that one of the main goals in grappling is to either get chest to chest or chest to back. Connect to the upper body or the lower body, takedowns. To grapple, you need to be connected to your opponent. You can't actually grapple if you're not even touching your opponent. Maybe there's exception if you're a Jedi and you're using the force, but for us mere mortals, you need to make meaningful connections to the upper body or lower body or a combination of both. Of course, a human only has an upper and lower body, but thinking of connecting to either one makes the objectives in grappling feel a lot more simple and easier to understand. For example, takedowns. You can connect to the lower body by grabbing one leg or two legs. Grabbing one leg is a single leg and grabbing two legs is a double leg. You can also connect to the upper body using grips such as under hooks, body locks, over hooks, and you can even grab the jacket, etc. Once you've either connected to the upper body or lower body or a combination of both, now you're just looking to get your opponent's legs off the mat. You're looking to get their hips on the mat. In other areas, to just see this concept also remains true. Connect to the upper body or lower body guard. Again, you can connect to the upper body or lower body simultaneously, but generally you're going to be connected to either one or other primarily. For example, lasso and spider guard are very much upper body guards. Deliheva and reverse Deliheva are very much lower body guards. Generally, if the guard passer leads with their upper body, then upper body guards are usually more available. And if they lead with their legs, then lower body guards are usually most available. And where do we connect? Again, the inside of the elbows, the hips, and the inside of the knees are great targets. Head, hands, and hips. This concept comes from wrestling. I heard it first from my friend, Drobriza, who's a former D1 wrestler when we were working on our wrestling for BJJ course. This is for both upper body and lower body takedowns. But I think it's easier to understand for lower body takedowns, so let's focus on that. If I want to get to your legs, I need to first get past your head, because otherwise you can use your head as a frame to keep me away from your legs. I need to get under your head. Next, I need to get past your hands, because otherwise you can use your hands and arms in general to keep me away from your legs. If I've gotten past your head and hands, your last line of defense is your hips. You could potentially sprawl or hip in to defend and keep your hips off the mat. Watch here how he gets underneath my head and underneath my hands, but I beat him with my hips. One thing I've learned from training to do for years and years is that if fatigued doesn't always mean that you're out of shape, sometimes your body is just missing what it needs to function properly. After hard training sessions, I'd often feel foggy, fatigued, and miss a bit off, even when I thought I'd recovered well. It wasn't until I started paying attention to hydration that I realized how much I was losing through sweat. It's not just water. You're also losing key minerals that keep your performance sharp, sodium, magnesium, and potassium. And that's why I started drinking element, a zero sugar electrolyte drink that helps reduce what's lost and helps keep you feeling strong throughout the day. No sweeteners, no junk, just the minerals that your body needs and the right ratios. Since adding element into my routine, I felt more consistent on the mats and recovered faster between sessions. It's a small change that has made a huge difference in how I feel every day. Plus now you can grab a free sample pack with any element order using my link, so you can try their most popular flavors. Get yours at www.drinkelementt.com slash Jordan teaches. This deal is only available through my link. You must go to www.drinkelementt.com slash Jordan teaches. Rotate a bent limb or hyper extend a straight limb. When it comes to joint locks, generally what you're looking to do is rotate a bent limb or hyper extend a straight limb. For example, arm bars, knee bars are straight limbs which you're looking to hyper extend. And maracanas, comoras, and heel hooks are all examples of rotating a bent limb. Thinking of joint locks this way makes it easier to be creative and flow while you're rolling. If you think more so about bending and hyper extending limbs than you think about specific submissions, it can open up a whole new world of submission options because there's many unorthodox submissions available beyond the standard ones. Create space to defend and take away space to attack. A major component of grappling is distance management. You want to get close to your opponent but without putting yourself in a vulnerable position in the process. When you're in a bad spot, generally what you're looking to do is make space to get out of that bad spot. So when you're in a bad spot, think about what you can do to create space. And when you're attacking, think about what you can do to take away space and maintain the space you've taken away. Don't be afraid to go in and out when needed. Sometimes as you're trying to take away space or maintain space you've taken away, you may need to bail on position and create space to stay safe. Make their hips and shoulders point opposite directions. Getting your opponent's hips and shoulders to point opposite directions puts them in a weakened state. It puts their spine out of alignment and makes it nearly impossible to utilize any core strength. This can be seen in many passes like dope mounts or submissions like the twister. Use your head as a fifth limb. A major battle that happens in grappling is preventing your torso from being controlled as well as seeking control of your opponent's torso. To defend your torso, you primarily use what's in front of it, your arms, legs and head. And to attack you also use what's in front of it, again your arms, legs and head. People often forget that they can use their head as a tool, a tool to frame, a tool to pin and more. You need to use what's available and you shouldn't forget that your head is often available and often extremely useful. The feet are the hands of the legs. You need to think of your feet as hands. I do and people often tell me it's like I have four hands. I use as mentality to my advantage by constantly using my feet to control people even in unorthodox ways. Additionally, feet are so important to connect to your opponent to use for situations like playing guard and pinning. You need to use them. You can't let your feet do nothing and then wonder why your guard is getting passed so easily or you're having trouble in general. Use what you've got and realize the importance of using your feet as if they're hands in many different situations. Stay out of your opponent's lap. When your opponent gets a part of your body between their knees and their lap, they gain a lot of control over you with their hips. The majority of submissions require you to be in your opponent's lap. Arm bars, leg locks, triangles, etc. as do dominant positions like mounts and the back. When you prioritize staying out of your opponent's lap, it creates an immediate objective to follow to help keep you safe. For example, here I avoid the backtake by prioritizing staying out of his lap. And here I do the same and enter into my own attack by putting his leg in my lap. Between the ear and shoulder and armpit and hip are sacred areas. These are all examples of what's called inside position. In short, they provide access to controlling the shoulders and controlling the hips. When your hips and shoulders are controlled, you're controlled. You need to be mindful to keep your opponent out of these areas as you search to get into these areas for yourself. Turtle is a great example. You shouldn't just easily let people get between your ear and shoulder or armpit and hip. This is how they'll get grips like seat belt grips and body locks which control your shoulders and potentially your hips. If they get their hooks in, they'll control your hips and their hooks are placed between where your armpit and your hip. Get behind the elbows. If you want to take the back, a great way of thinking about doing so is getting behind the elbows. The majority of the time, the only thing stopping you from taking someone's back is their arm. For example, if they have an underhook on you, you can't take their back because their arm is in the way. But if you get behind their elbow, their arm naturally is not in the way anymore and you'll have a clear path to the back. An arm drag is a great example. You grab with your hand behind their elbow and then get your chest behind their elbow and onto their back. So in all situations, just remember, if you want to take the back, focus on getting behind the elbows. Stay in front of the knees. When you've passed the guard, you're in front of the knees. Whether it be in side control, mounts, nor south, etc., from these dominant positions. One of the bottom players' major goals to improve their position is to get their legs or legs back in front of you so they can regard. When you prioritize staying in front of the knees, you can more easily respond to their attempts at regarding. You can move. You can put things in the way to block their knee from getting back in front of you. This is what I'm always prioritizing when I'm in a dominant position, staying in front of the knees. And getting things in front of the knee while passing can help you pass just in general, using your knee in front of their knee, your hand in front of their knee, your shin, etc. Never let someone grab your head. I've said this a thousand times before on the channel for good reason, because if your head is controlled, your mobility will be severely compromised. As where the head goes, the body must follow. You need to do things to prevent people from grabbing your head, or controlling it just in general. This idea was really ingrained into me by rolling so much of my friend Alex. He's extremely strong. He's a certified beast. Anytime he grabbed my head, things would start going downhill. I realized that, and then I made it a priority to never let him or anyone grab my head. Just stand up. This is similar to what we talked about in an earlier concept, but I think it's worth mentioning on its own. A lot of times, an effective solution to being on the bottom is to just stand up. You can reset in a way by simply standing up. Keep your friends close and your elbows even closer. Well, the friend part had nothing to do with anything really, but keeping your elbows close is an important thing to do, because when your opponent gets inside the elbow, they gain control over your shoulder. The open elbow allows you to take underhooks. It allows you to take kamoras. It allows you to take lasso grips, hit triangles, and more. So keep your elbows close and search for open elbows for yourself. Pick up my Jujitsu Theory course. It has all these concepts and more, and explain in more detail. It's Jujitsu Broken Down, so you can understand what's actually happening and what the objectives of grappling are. I consistently get tons of positive reviews saying how helpful it has been. Alright, that's it for the video, and this has been a lot of work. If you want to support me, the best way to do so is to pick up any of my courses, whether it be the Theory course, my Kamora Trap course, my CLA Games course, Wrestling for Jujitsu course, etc. I'm also working on a beginner course, which should be out by the end of November. Thank you for watching!