 out. And most gyms have a good culture. So even if your physicality doesn't match with someone else's, maybe they're younger, stronger, more athletic, they're most likely going to treat you right if you're at a good gym. It's totally normal to see some 15 year old rolling just fine with some 40, 50, 60 year old because they know how to treat their training partners right. How often should I train? In my opinion, two to three times per week is ideal for most people. When you go beyond that, that's usually for competitors or people that are just very much in love with jujitsu and obsessed with it. And that can be good, but it can also lead to burnout or injuries or just overtraining in general. One time per week likely isn't enough. In most cases, it's definitely better than nothing. But I think for most two to three times per week is that sweet spot of being enough, but not too much. But it really depends on your goals, what you're looking for out of the sport. Is it normal to feel completely lost? It's completely normal to feel lost. That's probably the most common question I get from beginners is what do I do? And this is totally valid because when you start jujitsu, there's so much information coming at you, so much to sort through and figure out what to focus your attention on. And that's how you get better jujitsu. You get better at focusing your attention on what actually matters. So in the beginning, there's just so much. And when you get more advanced, it's just easier to narrow down what I want to focus my attention on. So completely normal if you feel lost. How do I avoid being that guy that nobody wants to roll with? It's really not that hard. You need to basically just not stink and be a good person. Hygiene is number one. Even if you're a good person, but you stink, people will not want to train with you. And if you smell good, but you're a complainer or you hurt people, or you're just someone that isn't an enjoyable roll, then likely people won't want to train with you. So it's like all things in life. Just don't stink and be a good person and people will probably want to be around you. What should I do if I'm injured or super sore? Should I still come to class? It really depends because it can be very useful to show up to class and watch class. But oftentimes what happens is people show up to class injured and they just can't help themselves. They end up rolling and they might end up hurting themselves. This is something that's happened to me. One time I hurt my ankle really bad and I showed up to class a week later and I hurt my ankle even worse than it already was. And I had to take more time off than I would have otherwise. Is it rude to ask a higher belt to roll? It's absolutely not rude to ask a higher belt to roll, but at the same time, I don't think it should be interpreted as rude for a higher belt to say no. Sometimes I just want a hard night. I want to roll people that are going to push me and really make me work. And I always feel bad saying no, but I need to look out for my own training too. But there's nights where I don't really care who I roll with and I'm more than happy to roll with a brand new person. But it just depends on what I want out of that specific night. What do I do if someone's going super hard and I don't feel safe? Communication fixes most things in life. So what you need to do is communicate with them and tell them they're going too hard. But that doesn't mean that they're going to listen. If they don't listen, the best thing you can do is tell your coach. It's really their job to make sure that they provide a safe training environment. But it can be hard for a coach to know someone is being unsafe if nobody tells them. So if someone is being unsafe and you tell your coach, that can also help make sure that they don't hurt somebody else and be unsafe with somebody else because other people might be too shy to tell their coach. So really, if you can, you should tell your coach and they can deal with it. Is it okay to ask questions during class? It's absolutely okay and even encouraged. I love when people ask questions. I feel like it's so much more of a conversation and dialogue that way rather than me just doing a monologue. You're paying to learn jujitsu and if something's unclear, you should ask so that it is clear. And maybe other people have the same question you do, but they're too shy to ask. So asking can really help them. And again, most instructors appreciate questions. What do I do if I don't want to roll with someone? How do I say no? The easiest way is just to make an excuse. There's nothing wrong with a little lie just to not hurt somebody's feelings. You can just say, oh, I already have a partner or I'm taking this round off or whatever you need to do. And eventually they're going to get the hint if you don't ever say yes. Or you can just tell them directly why maybe, oh, you're too big for me. I'm a very small person, but obviously be mindful of their feelings when you say no, and it should be no issue. Spring is here and with spring comes change, oftentimes in the form of shifting priorities and new routines. Unfortunately, however, many feel anxiety during these transitions. For instance, all those springtime social media photos, the lofty vacations that everyone seems to be enjoying, people living their best lives, all of this content can heighten the feelings of inadequacy and fear of missing out. For example, when I was younger, I used to have that fear of missing out. Because I'm a perfectionist, I always wanted to improve, to be better than I am at the moment, and that would often lead to anxiety. Anxiety is no joke. It can be debilitating, and I know this from experience. And my paid partner, BetterHelp, can connect you with a therapist to provide support. It's easy to start. Just fill out a questionnaire and they'll connect you to a therapist who can help you. They carefully make sure that therapists on the platform are well qualified, and their support team is there to help you if you have any questions. With over 7,000 reviews and over 4.3 rating on Trustpilot, BetterHelp is a platform you can trust. Let BetterHelp rule your anxiety so that it doesn't rule you. Click the link in the description or go to betterhelp.com slash jtjj to get 10% off your first month of therapy. What if I fart during a roll? You basically have three options. You can own up to it and be like, oops, sorry about that. Two, you can just ignore it. And three, just blame it on someone else. This is probably the best way of dealing with it. You just say, oh man, do you smell that? I just want you to know that wasn't me. They know it wasn't them, and they think it wasn't you because they think you're not lying, and they're just going to assume that it was the people beside you. What do I do if I accidentally hurt someone? Just apologize and mean it. You don't want to just say sorry and then act like it's no big deal. They should know that you genuinely feel sorry, and you have to learn from your mistake and not make that mistake again and hurt other people the same way. For me, one time I hurt my training partner, my good friend Joey. I did a hip throw on him and his foot stayed on the mat, but his body went to the mat, and he dislocated his knee. I felt so bad, but the silver lining is I learned from this. I learned to never force a hip throw and to make sure that somebody's foot comes off the mat when you're hip throwing them. And now I try to talk about that a lot, let people know that this is a danger that can happen if you're not careful. How often should I wash my gi? Should I wash my belt? You should wash your gi and belt every single time you use it. Some people think that if you wash your belt, your skill leaves your belt along with it, and you're not as good at jujitsu because of it, but obviously that's not true. And belts can contain bacteria, all sorts of nasty stuff, all the same as a gi. So if you're not washing your belt because you think that it's going to make you worse at jujitsu, maybe just start washing your belt. How do I tap if my hands are trapped? You can stomp the mat, you can say tap, and just in general, I think saying tap is the safest way of tapping. But regardless, it's your job to make sure that your training partner knows that you're tapping. So saying tap, tapping them, hitting the mat with your foot, whatever you need to do, you need to make it obvious. Sometimes the music is loud or you have a quiet voice like I do. So you can't just assume that your training partner knows you're tapping. You need to make it obvious to them to keep yourself safe. What's the deal with all the skin infections people keep talking about? The most common are going to be ringworm and impetigo. I've had ringworm twice in 13 years and impetigo one time in 13 years. So I think the chances of getting it are pretty low and not something to super concern yourself about, but obviously take steps to avoid it. Shower after class, be a very hygienic person and go to a gym that takes hygiene and cleanliness seriously. But at the same time, a gym can be very clean. But if someone with something comes on the mats, it doesn't matter how clean the gym is and how clean the mats are, they can spread something. So it's really the gym's responsibility and the people at the gym's responsibility to make sure that they don't let anything spread. Should I be worried about getting injured? You should be worried enough to be careful and mindful to take care of your body, but not too worried where it affects your enjoyment of jujitsu. Injuries are actually pretty rare in jujitsu. Like rarely do we have someone get hurt in our classes, but it does happen once in a while, but it's not something that's just recurring all the time. I wouldn't say that jujitsu is any more dangerous than most sports and not doing sports is dangerous too. If you sit on the couch watching Netflix all day and don't use your body, you're doing damage to your body. And if you use your body for things like jujitsu or other sports, you risk getting hurt. And that's just a reality. How hard should I be going during rolls? Usually it's just best to match the intensity of the person that you're rolling with. Some people like rolling hard. Some people like rolling light. So it really depends. I like rolling hard and have no problem with someone rolling hard with me, but I wouldn't impose myself on someone else. I wouldn't roll hard when I can tell they don't want to roll hard. I'm going to match their intensity, but if they do want to roll hard, let's have a good time. Basically you want to avoid using your strained face as much as possible. And that should be a good indication that you're not overly exerting yourself. How long does it take to get a blue belt? One and a half years to two and a half years is pretty average, but it really depends on the gym. It depends on the individual. Although you should chase skill and not the belt, it definitely does feel good to get a blue belt and something to be excited about. So there's nothing wrong with wanting a blue belt or being excited about it, but definitely prioritize skill first and foremost. Is it normal to feel claustrophobic? Should I tap to pressure? It's absolutely normal. I think everyone goes through this. I felt claustrophobic at times. And in the past, I have tapped that feeling of claustrophobia, but over time I've learned to survive it. And that's given me proof that I don't need to tap when I'm feeling that way. So when you are feeling that way, you have that proof. I know I can go through this and not have to tap. But at first, if you do tap once in a while, because you have to, don't feel bad on yourself, but try to give yourself that proof that you don't need to tap in those situations. Is it better to roll with people who are better than me or people I can beat? A variety of both is ideal, but overall, I think it's best to roll with people that are worse than you, but not like way worse than you, just a bit worse. So you can still work on things without too much consequence. At the same time, they're not just wrecking you or you're not just wrecking them with ease. Are people going to get mad if I submit them? Some people will, but if they do, screw them. People have egos in the sport and they're losers. Is it okay to roll with women or should I try to avoid it? Everyone has their own comfort levels and some women don't want to roll with men and that's absolutely fine. And some men don't want to roll with women and that's absolutely fine too. You roll with who you want to roll with and you don't roll with who you don't want to roll with. Should I be trying to win every roll? Not every roll. And you need to understand we are just training, but at the same time, there's this misconception in Jiu-Jitsu where it's always just training and you shouldn't try to win. And I disagree with that. I think that there is a time and a place to be competitive. That's what makes the sport fun. There's guys I train with. I'm trying to beat them and they're trying to beat me. If I beat them, good on me. If they beat me, good on them. But make no mistake, we're trying to beat each other. Why does it feel like I instantly forget everything as soon as I start rolling? Because you're probably focusing too much on techniques specifically and not enough on the objectives. It's hard to remember some 10 step technique, but if you focus on the objectives, like I need to pin this person's shoulders to the mat, I need to get past their feet first and then past their knees, stuff like that. Very specific and important objectives. That's way easier to remember. And that's how you actually get better. How do I handle getting paired up with somebody that's way bigger and stronger than me? Practically, you want to keep their weight off you, stop them from smashing you, from pinning you down to the mat, not letting you move. And mentally, you want to just approach it like, I'm going to beat you anyways. I've competed against some huge guys before. And although I was nervous, I still went into the match with the mentality of, I don't care that you're big because I'm going to beat you. And it's going to be that much more enjoyable. How do I deal with being embarrassed or frustrated after I get dominated? Just realize that there's someone that can dominate the person that just dominated you. You need to zoom out and realize so many people get dominated in jiu-jitsu every single day. It's just the way it is. It's a tough sport. You can enjoy something and not be the best at it. If you want to be the best at jiu-jitsu, then definitely be hard on yourself and that'll make you better. But if you have no plans to be the best in the world, then what does it really matter if there's people that are better than you? There will be people that are better than you, unless you're the best. How do higher belts seem so calm while they're rolling? It's because we are calm. We don't have a thousand things we're focusing on. We know what to focus on. And because of that, we can relax a little bit more. It's like if you have anxiety about something, you can't stop thinking about it. Well, in jiu-jitsu, when you're a higher belt, you can stop thinking. A lot of times I'm not thinking while I'm rolling and then five minutes goes by and it rolls over. Is it normal to just want to quit? Anything tough, anything challenging, it's absolutely normal for people to want to quit. And jiu-jitsu is no exception. I've wanted to quit at times. And so many people I know that our black belts have wanted to quit at times, but we didn't. A black belt is just a white belt that didn't quit. And that's a really important quote. That's very true. What's the best way to get better faster? The best way to get better at jiu-jitsu fast is to learn the objectives of jiu-jitsu, learn the theory, the concepts behind jiu-jitsu. And you're in luck because I have my jiu-jitsu theory course on sale for 10% off. If you use code YouTube 10, use code YouTube 10 and start learning the objectives and I guarantee your jiu-jitsu will skyrocket. Alright, let me know if you have any questions I didn't answer and I'll make a part two to answer them. Thank you for sticking around until the end of the video. If you're still here, please leave a comment or a fist bump and I'll see you guys next time.