odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics,odynamics, much more freely as that's one less limb that he's connected to me with. In this situation, a John Wayne sweep is often an obvious choice, but he's leaning too far back for that to work, as I would need his weight coming forward for a John Wayne sweep. So instead, I bring my knee to the inside and hit what I call a half guard flower sweep. Notice how I push into him a little bit first. I want him to push back into me to get some momentum on my side. With this sweep, the majority of the power is coming from my left knee. I use it to direct his shoulders past his hips so that he falls. You can't see a grade from this angle, but I push on his hips with my left foot as I kick my right leg out, so I can come up on top already past his guard rather than in his guard. He should keep his elbow tighter to his body like a t-rex, as his open elbow allows me to lock up a kimura grip and sit into an arm bar. But he's doing a good job coming up on top, so I just take my leg off his head to let him come up, and I take his back instead. I'm crossing my feet for better control and without worry, as I'm above his hips with my feet, so there's no real risk of an ankle lock. He's doing a good job rotating into me, but again, his open elbow cost him as I take an underhook, and a weird kind of scramble starts. His right arm is in danger because again, his elbow is too far from his body, and now I want to slide that wrist into my armpit for an arm bar. I take my time to make sure he doesn't come up on top during the transition, and then switch to two hands on the wrist. We start again, and he should be on his feet to pass rather than his knees, as it would provide him greater mobility, and that mobility would help with grip fighting, but he kind of just dives right in there. Although he takes control of my head, his right arm is wide open for an underhook. I use his crossface against him by blocking his arm from posting, and then lift him up with my butterfly hooks to sweep him into mount. I'm not sure why I left mount, but if this was a tournament, I could do something like this to get more points, meaning get my mount points and then let him re-guard into quarter guard, just to pass his guard again, and get more points. Again, his elbow is too far from his body, which allows me to staple it with my shin, effectively rendering it useless. I've isolated it, and now go to work attacking his other arm. It would appear that the farsight arm bar would be an obvious choice from here, but he has a hold on my belt. However, he can't hold on forever, and wisely tries to bring his arm back to his body where it's safer. But I intercept it by driving my weight and head to the mat. Now I'm using my head to try to keep it there. I have to use my strain face a bit, which I always try not to. One, because it means I had to work harder than I would have liked to, and two, because it's not very pretty. But I gotta do what I gotta do for YouTube. Guys, stop for a second and check out your current belt. Not your jiu-jitsu belt, your belt belt. Does it look acceptable? Is it cracking? Is it stylish? And do you feel comfortable wearing it? Is it too big, too small, or falling apart? With Anson belts, you never have to worry about cracking of your belt or an inaccurate fit. Its design, durability, and how fashionable it is are all top-notch. I really love wearing them, and wear them all the time now. Which is funny, because I never used to wear belts other than my jiu-jitsu belt. Anson belts are made of the highest quality materials, and designed with micro-adjustments, and they have no holes. With their micro-adjustability, Anson belts allows you to have a more accurate fit, and easy adjustments on the go. Anson belts are all a one-size-fits-all, and they come with a lifetime guarantee. Plus, they have so many variations of styles, colors, and materials when it comes to their straps or buckles. They're a great gift idea for any age, male or female. Go check out Anson belts now. Click my link in the description below for a special offer. I suggest taking advantage of the great offer for 20% off the box set, which allows you to select either three straps and two buckles, or two straps and three buckles. Again, he's not really prioritizing the grip fight. He's more so prioritizing getting his weight on me, which is important, but it's difficult to do anything with that weight, without grips in place to properly use that weight. I've got an underhook, but it's not very deep. My shoulder is in front of him, which makes it easier to smash that underhook and me down to the mat. It would be a more useful underhook if it was deeper, so I start pulling him towards me. This causes him to post his hand on the mat, and allows me to get my shoulder deeper underneath his armpit. To sweep him, I lift with my right leg, and use my left leg to swipe out his other leg. Again, I'm not exactly sure why I dismounted, but again, if I had held mount and got my points, I could have gotten more points by letting him regard just to pass again. He starts to get a bit of an underhook, and turn to his side. I need to decide in this moment if I want to try to drive him back down to the mat, or transition to get around his head. I decide to transition, again, taking advantage of the open elbow by locking up another Kimura grip, and again, transitioning to the armbar. We start again, standing this time. I grip his lapel with my left hand, so I can feed it to my right hand, my dominant side. I'll be the first to admit my judo isn't very good, so my offense is limited with the Gi-on, compared to Nogi where I'm pretty confident in my wrestling. So I just stick to what I'm good at with the Gi-on, and hit a fake guard pull ankle pick, such a staple of the channel. I bring my foot up to trick him into thinking I'm pulling guard, and then drop my weight down, as I also pull his weight down, causing him to step his foot within reach. His knee shield is in the way of me knee sliding, or getting chest to chest, and the way I dress it is a pretty cool looking back step into a leg drag position. I'm in knee on belly, but kind of like reversed, and as he attempts to shrimp away to make space, I push his legs together so I can step over into mounts. Cross collar chokes aren't really my favorite submission, but I do like to use them to set up other submissions. But he's keeping his elbows down, and defending pretty well. So I go back to knee on belly, hoping to find something in the transition. Although I enjoy a nice technical battle, I also think I thrive in the chaos. I often try to create scrambles, or entice my opponents to try to transition, and then capitalize as they do. That's kind of what was happening here. I didn't really have a plan, and the knee bar kind of just presented itself. However, I don't fully commit to it, and end up resetting in bottom position. Again, he's on his knees, which would be fine if he had grips to pin me, but without real grips to control me. He's a bit of a sitting duck. Again, I hit that half guard flower sweep. Again, making sure to come up already past his guard. In a tournament setting, this can be worse for points, as I wouldn't get past points, but it's a safer bet to be in a more dominant position anyways. I want to step over his arm for a triangle, but I think he knows that it's coming, so I have to be careful, as I don't have the element of surprise on my side. I take my time, and place my foot on his bicep, for what I call a pit stop, and then bring it over his shoulder. I can feel I don't have a deep choke bite on his neck. The inside of my right knee is too far from his neck. I need it completely wrapped around, with no space, for a deep bite, but I have options. I attack the omoplata, but he rolls out of it into my arm bar. I break the grip, and that's it. Thank you to Hodelpho for being on the channel. Make sure to pick up my Kimura Trap Mastery course if you haven't yet, as well as sign up for my newsletter for free Jiu-Jitsu tips every single week.