 Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês Vocês a single. He attempts a guillotine, and to counter it, I place my forehead on him to use my head as a frame to manage the distance, and now take my head off of him for a high crotch lift. Although this looks cool, I'm in the predicament that I need to figure out how to put him down safely, which I do with a trip. With it being my first time in his guard, I'm processing how much intensity to bring, how to best proceed, and I'm quickly gauging that I'll need to try decently hard to be successful passing. I think about backstepping, but abandon it. This is what I was trying to do, and it would have been more successful if I put my shin on his hip, rather than my knee on the mat. I worry that he's going to lift me forward and enter a leg entanglement, so I hide my leg by bringing it back to the inside, but I get a little bit sloppy, and allow him to get underneath me and between my legs. I try to backstep, but his hand is stopping me, and if something is in the way stopping you from doing what you want to do, then you need to address it. So first I take that grip off me, and then backstep, making sure to control his foot and keep it where it is, so it can't follow me. Because I already have his foot, I go right to attacking the toehold, bending the foot towards the butt. One advantage of toeholds is that you don't always have to have their leg fully entangled like you do for other leg locks. Quickly, this video is brought to you by Transparent Labs, my absolute favorite supplement brand. I love how they're all natural. Everything in the ingredient list looks like actual ingredients rather than a science project. Sponsored or not, I don't see myself ever switching to another brand, because I take so seriously what I put into my body. Clean ingredients only. Go to transparentlabs.com and use code Jordan for 10% off your order if you want high quality and nutritious supplements. We start again with some hand fighting, and I bade him to overextend his elbow from his body by letting him grab my wrist. Then I use my other hand to grab his tricep for an arm drag, using it to get underneath his arms and to get to his legs. The problem is I'm too far extended with my shoulders past my hips, and he's able to sprawl. I had beaten his head and his hands, but I wasn't able to beat his hips, which was his last line of defense. I felt that battle was a lost cause, so I just pull guard, thinking I'd be able to better attach my legs to his legs for a real guard. But he times it well, and a bit of a scramble starts. With my back exposed, I need to hide it. So I do a front roll, so I can hide it on the mat. But now I'm in a potential double underpass, so immediately I frame on his tricep to get his arm away from controlling my legs. Although I've retained my guard, my hips are facing away from him, which makes it difficult to attach my legs to him. So I use the threat of the guillotine to get him to posture up and give me space to work. His base is really wide and strong side to side, but not so much going forward and back. Only his right arm is supporting his weight going forward. So I take that post out by pulling it by the tricep and lift him up with my legs, causing him to come forward and his head right into my armpit for the front headlock. Right now his right knee is saving him from the guillotine. It's inside position, and it stops me from connecting my hips to his hips. I need to decide, am I going to try to get past that knee or am I going to transition? And I decide to transition, so I jump off of him and start attacking the darts. But he's wise to it, and he keeps his back flat on the mat. I need him on his side. Being flat on your back or being on your stomach or knees are both great ways to defend the darts. I'm being a little bit stubborn though, and still holding out on the hope I can darts him if he turns into me, or if I can turn him. This is what I was hoping for. But I start losing position as he progresses his underhook deeper and deeper. As I try to take an underhook for myself, he bridges hard into me and reverses me. This took me by surprise, and now my priority is to improve position as soon as possible, which I do with the classic bump and shrimp. The key to this is how hard I bridged, getting completely on my side to take his weight off my chest. I then shrimp back to connect my legs to his legs, inserting my knee shield for extra defense. I initially think about pulling him forward so I can take an overhook, but I can feel that he's not going to budge. So instead, I search for what else I can get. What's always a go-to for me is inserting my instep for a shin-on-shin grip. I often use this grip to transition to leg locks. But as I start to lift him, he senses the danger and he drops his weight to his hip. He basically swept himself to prevent the leg lock, which was not a bad idea at all. But he exposes his back too much and I'm able to get behind him. He's proving to be quite squirrely and harder to control than I anticipated. So now, I'm just hunkering down a bit, slowing down the roll, and directing all my attention to controlling his hips and waiting for an opportunity to mount him. I switch to a reverse underhook and step over his legs. I should have better prioritized bringing my right arm to his left side, as he uses that to block me from posting and reverse me to bottom position. You can see the look on my face. I'm like, aw crap, kind of rolling my eyes at myself. I always try to correct my mistakes right away, so I try to create a scramble. But he wins the scramble by winning the battle of the hips. Whoever can get their hips higher would be the winner of the scramble. And he won the hip height battle. So now, I'm just thinking, no more mistakes. And thinking, I gotta get offense going right away to correct that mistake. I start to bring my outside leg to the inside, looking to enter a leg lock. But he raises his hips to keep me away from his knee line. But I then, again, circle my outside leg into the inside, and this time connect above his knee. Unfortunately for me, he does a great job framing with his hand to make space for his foot. And now, he pushes with his foot to clear the knee line. So I'm back in side control. And again, I use a reverse underhook to step over his legs. But this time, I'm more cautious and more aware of his intentions, and free my arm before he can reverse me. I keep some heavy pressure from mounts, and when I see my opening, I take an underhook. What I see is the open elbow, which is an invitation for me to start isolating his arm away from his body. I want the arm triangle, but his hand is stuck. So I first lower my body and then drive forward, trying to get his hand out of there, but it stays stuck. I can still choke him with it in there, but it can just be harder sometimes. I'm having a hard time getting it out, so I just proceed with the arm triangle with it in there. I dismount for a better angle and to get more pressure on his neck. And that's all she wrote. Thanks for watching.