 s devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated devastated To hit the John Wayne Sweep, you force your opponent's wrist to their belly to prevent it from posting out and shoot your hips underneath your opponent's hips. The inside knee does most of the work, creating a tipping motion, knocking them over. This is called a knee lever. And the knee lever is used in a variety of different sweeps. The John Wayne Sweep is reliant on positioning your opponent's wrist to their stomach. To do so, you need the ability to move their wrist if they grip onto your pants. You can't freely move their wrist, but instead they give you what you need for a half guard flower sweep. They're committing their grip to you so you can't move it so you simply keep it there and turn both your knees to the side to off balance them and keep their wrist where it is so they can't post out. This is also an example of a knee lever. This is me hitting it in a live roll. I didn't finish it as cleanly as I would have liked, as he was able to pull his wrist closer to himself so he could base on his elbow. Ideally, I would have kept his wrist closer to my hip. If I wanted to John Wayne Sweep him, I would have had to do so here, when he wasn't gripping onto my pants, as it would be too hard to move his wrist with him gripping onto my pants. This is why I went for the flower sweep. The AB is if they're holding onto your pants, flower sweep them. And if they're not holding on, then John Wayne Sweep them. Dummy Sweep Dummy Sweep Dummy Sweep The dummy sweep is a sweep where you hook the instep to your feet behind your opponent's ankles. While many teach to push on the hips or knees, this isn't what I do. It's not wrong. But what I like to do is take rips which allow me to pull my opponent forward. Because people will naturally resist being pulled forward by pulling back and away from you. This essentially has the same effect as pushing them back, except they're doing it to themselves. And if they don't resist being pulled forward, and do in fact come forward, you can then get underneath them. While getting underneath them isn't a specific sweep. It's a way of entering positions where it's relatively easy to sweep or take the back, as well as enter leg locks. The AB is if they resist being pulled forward, hit them with the dummy sweep. And if they don't resist being pulled forward, get underneath them. You can do this both from your guard, or right off the guard pull from standing. Here I hit this in the stand up, and I think it was pretty cool. Here I had to finish the dummy sweep by wrestling up. As not everything will go as planned or look as pretty as you'd like, and you need to adjust as needed. We've all started off 2025 with lofty ideas in our minds. Setting big goals both on and off the mats. I'm no different from you. I've decided that this year will be my best year yet. In terms of both my YouTube channel, gyms, training, and family alike. And let me tell you, I speak from experience when I say that it can be quite nerve wracking. It can be anxiety inducing to meet all those internal expectations. Especially when you really want to meet those goals and don't want to fall back in life. Whatever that may mean for you personally. That's why talking to a therapist can be a big help. They can help break down those vague feelings of being behind into specific, addressable concerns. They can help you untangle external pressures from your internal values. Which is why I'm happy to tell you that BetterHelp is the paid partner of this video. They make it possible to connect with a therapist from their diverse network of credentialed professionals. With a wide range of specialties and backgrounds. They carefully ensure that therapists on their platform are well qualified. And the customer support team is there to help you if you have any questions. BetterHelp is fully online. Making therapy more comfortable and convenient. Fill out a questionnaire and you'll be matched to a therapist in as little as a couple days. Start fresh any day of the year with BetterHelp. Click the link in the description or go to betterhelp.com slash jtjj to get 10% off your first month of therapy. Balloon sweep slash tripod sweep. This is from collar and sleeve but it can also be done in no gi. Basically, if their butt is up, then you hit the balloon sweep. And if their butt is down, you hit the tripod sweep. A couple tips for the balloon sweep is to not lift when your opponent is far away from you. Instead, pull them forward towards you. And then once their hips are above your hips, then straighten your legs. You can bring them to the side or overhead, although this is a bit more dangerous. And you can also hit the arm bar, which gets you the most style points. If their butt is up, this should be a trigger to go for the balloon sweep. And if their butt is down, it's super hard to lift them, so good luck going for the balloon sweep. Instead, the tripod sweep is a great option. For the tripod sweep, you grab their ankle with one hand and drop the instep of your foot behind their other ankle. This blocks them from posting just like a dummy sweep. Now you can push on their hips with your remaining foot, causing them to hit the ground. One tip is that if you can't reach the ankle, move your head closer to the ankle, so you can better reach it with your hand. Kimora sweep slash back take. The Kimora sweep is my bread and butter when I'm in bottom half guard with a Kimora grip on my opponent. You use the Kimora grip to pull your opponent onto your body so you can launch them with the aid of a knee lever or a butterfly hook. You need to bring your opponent forward to effectively launch them over you. If they're resisting that pull and positioning their weight back, you can switch to another attack. When your opponent backs their weight up, they open up space for you to exit half guard and attack. You can exit half guard and attack them with attacks such as taking their back or what I call the foot in the hole. I know I said AB and this is kind of ABC, but these are really my three main options from this position so I wanted to provide them all. With this back take, there is risk of your opponent countering with the arm bar. But this risk can be mitigated by prioritizing proper wrist to elbow positioning, keeping their wrist above their elbow so they can't lift their shoulder to posture up. With the foot in the hole, you shoot your hips out to exit half guard and then throw that half guard leg in the hole where you have arm bars and back takes available. If you want to learn more about the Kimura Trap, I do have an instructional available at KimuraTrapMastery.com technical standup slash tripod sweep. A sweep that I like to do is a technical standup where you force your opponent's hands to the mat which makes their legs feel lighter and then just stand up using a technical standup. There are other options when you force your opponent's hands to the mat, but the technical standup is usually my go-to. When you put their hands on the mat, most people will naturally want to take their hands off the mat and posture up so they can fight the feet with their hands. When they go to posture up, this is a great time to use that momentum against them and hit a tripod sweep. It's essentially the same thing as the tripod sweep that we looked at earlier. One arm and one leg block both of their legs from posting as you push on their hips with your remaining foot. You can still hit the tripod sweep without that momentum, but it's super easy to do so when you time it for when they're posturing up. You sweep them. And if they do post out, you attack the triangle. I am pissed the actual firing on the mat and I am pissed the actual firing on the mat and highest percentage attack off of them posting out. And note, I had to be careful with Nikki's neck, so I couldn't really hang off her head and shoot my hips to her. I had to pull her down to my hips. But what you want to do is bring your hips to them, as it's generally easier to move yourself than move your opponent. Alright, thank you for sticking around until the end of the video. If you're still here, please leave a comment or fist bump, and I'll see you next time. Bye bye Thank you.