 was kind enough to host this event. They're a great group of people and I highly recommend their gym. As a thank you to the contestants for participating, all were entered into a draw to win free entry to a training retreat that I'm hosting in Trinidad and Tobago. Seven days of training and relaxing in paradise. Alright, let's get started. Make sure that you follow along and make your own guesses as we go. See if you're a better guesser than I am. Write down in the comments what belt rank that you think each person is. Just pause the video every time you hear the belt go off, but no cheating. I don't think he's a white belt. You are a purple belt. Well, I guessed that one horribly wrong, but at least I guessed too high. My worst fear going into this is guessing too low. I didn't know it at the time, but four out of the 18 contestants are black belts. And that's okay. Come on, let's work. Let's work. Somebody get a suit. Yes, yes, yes. Here we go. Here we go. Oh, yes, yes, yes. Oh, yes. Nice. And we're there. Keep going, keep going, keep going. Fight, fight, fight. Six. Five. Six. Six. you are a blue belt i felt really bad about that one i tried to be conservative after guessing so high for contestant number one but it backfired and that's why you can't really compare my guesses of each person to each other as i was adjusting my thought process as i went i don't know what this is okay okay you are a purple belt i started to feel a bit more confident after finally guessing relatively close i thought okay maybe it was just a rough start and i'm getting the hang of it now but let me tell you did somebody not get swept one guy one guy one guy one guy one guy one guy one guy one guy you are a blue belt i went from feeling bad to feeling awful in hindsight blue belt didn't make sense i mostly just went off of the relatively easy john wingsweep there's more black belts coming up but first now a big thanks to the sponsor of today's video elements if you want to train hard or even just optimize your training then you need to optimize your recovery if you're constantly feeling exhausted or cramping up mid-roll or even just feeling sluggish after just a few rounds then your progress is going to hit a wall most of the time however this isn't because you're training too much it's because you're not replenishing what your body actually needs which more often than not is electrolytes and that's not where element comes in and no this isn't your typical sugar filled sports drink it's a science backed electrolyte ratio of sodium potassium and magnesium the key minerals your body loses through sweat since i started drinking element i've been able to train harder recover faster and avoid those annoying muscle cramps that used to frustrate me during training and here's the best part they're offering my viewers a free sample pack with any order that's eight single serving packets free with any element order this is a great way to try all eight flavors of this is a great way to try all eight flavors or share element with a salty friend get yours at drink element.com jordan teaches this deal is only available through my link you must go to drink element.com jordan teaches come on buddy figure it out figure it out we got this okay okay You're almost there. Keep going, keep going. Good. Three, two, one. Okay. P-R-A, blue belts. To be honest, I was leaning towards white belt, but I wanted to err on the side of caution. My ankles are really bendy. My ankles are very bendy. I've rolled them so many times playing soccer that I'm pretty much immune to ankle locks. Not completely immune, but you just have to have a really nasty ankle lock to get me to tap. To my surprise, he goes for a heel hook in the gi, which doesn't bother me, but just surprises me, as it's a submission normally reserved for no gi. And that's okay. That's what we do here. Get up, get a sweep, please. Please, it's just one guy, get a sweep. And thank you! Grab this. Keep going. Hang in. One, zero, eight. You already went off. I was thinking blue belt, but the heel hook and the key threw me off. It was because of that I thought maybe white belt. Just a really good one. Switch, please. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on! Come on, come on, come on! Very nice. Good. Come on. One, two, three. Come on. Almost! Almost! Almost! You are a brown belt. You are a white belt. You are a white belt. For the sake of video length, I had to skip some rounds being shown. Although I very much appreciate their participation. This guy coming up is really good. I could feel his level right away. And I'm curious to see what everyone else thinks that his rank is. And I definitely need to get a full round in with him for the channel sometime. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Thank you. Thank you. All right, ready? You are a brown dog. Blue belt was a surprise, but then again, many of these guys that have been training and competing since they were kids are absolute killers. CrossFit. CrossFit. CrossFit. CrossFit. CrossFit. CrossFit. Let's go. CrossFit. Oh, you got this. Come on. Please. Please. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. 30 seconds. Slow. That would be like a . That was. Almost there. Almost there. Almost there. Whoa. I think that size played a factor there Here I actually know who this person is I've been rolling with him since I was a blue belt And I knew he was a black belt You are a black belt Let's go team Must be team Must be on Mr. Oh, are you going to sweep? There was a sweep Hi Good, good, good Not from the last one Watch out, watch out, watch out The lock The lock The lock We'll see you in the back Go for ankle Take help Go again Hold that part Go Five Four Three Two One Five Four Three Two One Two You are a purple belt. I took another L. You are a blue belt. And another one. If one were to draw any conclusions from this experiment, it would simply be that number one, one minute is not enough to accurately guess someone's belt level. And number two, I am horrible at guessing belt rank, like bottom of the barrel. And number two are different. You are a purple? You're putting hard. I suck at guessing. You are a blue belt? This is the last round, and one weird thing that I noticed about this whole experience is how much seeing people in white belts changes your perspective. Even if they're a much higher rank than the eye sees, it's like the brain automatically thinks that they're worse because of the color of the belt. It's a really weird thing. It's a really weird thing. It's a really weird thing. It's a really weird thing. Almost. Almost. 10 seconds. 5. 2. 2. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1. 3. 2. 1. Keep going. You are a blue belt. 2. 2. 3. 2. 2. 3. 3. 4. 4. 5. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. job guessing and felt really bad for the people that had guessed too low. I felt like I had failed. I wasn't expecting this to take such an emotional toll on me but here we are. Luckily there is a nice surprise coming to lift my spirits. You are a Huubo. You are a Huubo. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. You think he's a Huubo? Oh yeah. He's a Huubo. I'll shoot for sure. Really? I'll shoot for sure. Well then let's actually look at him. Alright, the free training camp in Trinidad Tobago goes to Brandon Gasper. Yeah! Alright, you're forgiven. Redemption. Thank you Jordan for coming to Karma Jiu Jitsu. We hope to see you again soon. Yeah thank you Gavin, appreciate you having me. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Bye. Thank you.