 the bone arrow choke is the most effective submission from the back in the gi, it is a need to know technique at every belt level. In fact, I won the majority of my competition matches by either arm bar or the bone arrow. However, the bone arrow is commonly taught from the seated position, which isn't very realistic, as it's so rare to be sitting on your butt when you have the back. You're nearly always going to be either on your underside, your oversight, or flat on your back. And entries into the bone arrow differ from each position. On top of that, there are countless variations and critical details that make the difference between finishing the choke or losing it. That's exactly what this video covers. This is an in-depth but easy to digest look at the bone arrow choke and its variations. Whether you're brand new or just want to sharpen your bone arrow game, this will give you the tools that you need. So let's get started. What is a bone arrow choke? The standard bone arrow choke is a choke from the back where you grab the lapel with one hand and the pants with your other hand. While pulling with your arms, you push with your legs. However, there are variations which look a bit different, yet have the same mechanics and the same effect. We will look at the bone arrow choke as a whole, not just the standard version, but everything. Elbow positioning Elbow positioning is the most important aspect of a bone arrow choke and any of its variations. What you need is your elbow of the choking arm behind your opponent's head. This is so you can fully take out the slack of the lapel. Think about a rope under someone's neck. When the rope is in front of the head, there is slack. When you move the rope behind the head, wrapping around the neck, the slack is now taken out. The same is true with your arm. When you initially grab the lapel with your hand, naturally your elbow will be in front of the head. When you then position your elbow behind the head, the slack is taken out and you're ready to finish the choke. This adjustment from in front of the head to behind the head is basically checkmate. Of course, the tap itself is actual checkmate, but when I have control of the lapel with my hand and get my elbow behind the head, I'm always confident that it's a done deal. It's like a hit of dopamine even, telling me the finish is near. For the bone arrow and its variations, you need to be dead set on making that adjustment from the elbow in front of the head to behind the head. And the opposite is true to defend the bone arrow. If your opponent sinks in the grip on your lapel, prioritize not letting them get their elbow behind your head. I can't let the elbow go behind my back. It's a bit... I'm sorry. I'm not afraid, you got this. Get your thumbs up! Get your thumbs up! Good! You got it! You got it! Luckily I got out of that one, but I think that he was being nice. A two on one grip is what I recommend. One hand on their lower arm and one hand on their upper arm. As two hands on the lower arm does little to prevent proper elbow positioning. Pushing the neck into the wrist. When you pull with your choking arm, it forces your wrist into your opponent's neck. This is an important part of facilitating the choke, but you also want to be forcing your opponent's neck into your wrist. It's a dual motion. This modified bone arrow called the chicken wing shows this well. I'm pulling the lapel of my right arm, forcing my wrist into his neck, while pushing his head with my left arm to force his neck. This modified bow and arrow shows this well. I'm pulling with my right arm to force my wrist into his neck, while driving my shoulder into his head to force his neck into my wrist. This clip shows the dual motion as well. The standard bone arrow also applies the two hands on their lower arm. The standard bone arrow also applies this dual motion. You pull with the choking arm and you push with your legs to again drive their neck into your wrist. When you focus on this dual motion, you can focus less on a specific way to finish and more on achieving the objective at hand. Before jiu-jitsu was my full-time job, I was working a standard 9-5. It paid the bills, but it wasn't what I wanted to do with my life. It really motivated me in training and helping people get better. That's what made me fired up and excited. And once I finally made the decision to follow my passion, my life completely changed. Now I get to wake up every day excited to teach and train and do what I love. That's why I'm so excited to be partnering with today's sponsor ISSA, the International Sports Sciences Association. ISSA is the leader in online fitness certifications and they make it easy for you to follow a similar path. Plus, ISSA has the number one job guarantee in the industry. If you get certified as a personal trainer with ISSA, you're guaranteed to find a job in the US or your money back. Whether you're ready for a career change or to improve your existing one, ISSA makes it possible. For example, at my gym, we're starting to offer fitness classes in addition to martial arts classes. And one of my teachers, Dr. Jake, is taking an ISSA course right now to prepare if he loves it. I've been loving ISSA certification a lot. There's so much to learn and the weight class instructor is amazing. Classes are fully online and self-paced. Can't wait to use his knowledge in our upcoming fitness classes. So if you're thinking about changing careers, starting a side hustle, or finally doing something with your passion for fitness, this is the opportunity. Go to joinissa.com slash Jordan and use my code Jordan. See a $100 offer as certified personal trainer, fitness coach bundle, elite trainer bundle, or the master trainer bundle certification. The link is right here in the description. You thought about making a change long enough. Now's the time to actually do it. Preventing rotation. With any submission, you need to keep your opponents still. You need to prevent rotation. This is the reason that you grab the pants for the standard bow and arrow choke. You don't just do it because it looks cool. You do it to stop them from rotating their body away from you, which would position your elbow back in front of their head and your neck. Which would position your elbow back in front of their head and your wrist losing position entirely. Focusing on preventing rotation allows you to again focus on the objectives at hand rather than specific grips. Like here, for example, I try using a grip on the wrist to prevent rotation, but lose the wrist. I then grab the lapel to prevent rotation and it gets the job done. Or in these examples, I'm mostly using my body weight to pin them, which stops them from rotating. In this example, it's possible that my opponents have before they needed to. It's possible I may have not been able to prevent rotation to his left. It's hard to say exactly, but I know if I have my arm looped underneath his armpit and over his arm for the standard chicken wing variation, then he for sure would have been unlikely to be able to rotate. This clip is another example. It's hard to say if I had everything in place to prevent rotation and he may have tapped a bit prematurely, but it's hard to say. In this clip, I wasn't able to prevent rotation and that's how he escapes. So remember, prevent rotation. Securing the choking grip. What you're looking for is a nice and deep grip on the lapel. Not too deep where you're entering rear knee choke territory, but deep enough so that when you pull out the slack and get your elbow behind the head, your wrist will be located on the side of their neck. You want where your hypothetical watch would be on the soft part of their neck. This is the hard part of the neck and this is the soft part of the neck. You can just grab the lapel, but that often won't allow for the deep grip that you have on the lapel. This is the deep grip that you want, which is why it's often a good idea to feed the lapel from one hand to the other hand. With your non choking hand, you pull down which takes out the slack and then pass it to your choking hand. This isn't the only way to get a deep grip, but it is highly effective. Here I'm crawling my hand deeper and deeper to get a deep grip with my choking grip. I must have felt like the path of least resistance was to keep his left hand away from his neck, unable to defend, but still couldn't get it quite deep enough so I feed it with the other hand. You can trap their hands with your hands or with your legs. Generally the more you can take away their ability to defend with their hands, the better, but it just depends on the situation. Like I said, sometimes you can just grab it and get a deep grip right off the bat. But if you can't, think about feeding the lapel from one hand to the other, as well as trapping arms slash hands, or crawling the choking hand up to get deeper. Underside vs Overside When you have the back, you have an underside and you have an oversight. The oversight is the side that your arm is over the shoulder. The underside is the side that's underneath the armpit. When you're on your underside, you can often just grab the pants and enter right into the standard bow and arrow choke. But with the oversight, things change because your leg is stuck. You want to bring your hips higher from your opponent's hips to their shoulders, but that's a difficult thing to do with their body weight trapping your leg. To deal with this, you can do a chair sit to get your hips higher up to the shoulders. For the chair sit, you remove your bottom hook so you can place your knee of that leg at the shoulders, and then sit back while securing the pant grip. With your other leg, you should bring your heel to their hip, as you ideally don't want to trap between their legs. Positioning your heel to the hip, hides your foot from them being able to trap it between their legs. Not that them trapping your foot is the end of the world, but it can be a good thing to do. You can place strain on your knee, and it doesn't give you as much control over their shoulders compared to having that leg higher up on the body. Not always can everything go as planned. If your bow and arrow choke is failing, often the arm bar is right there for the taking, as the positioning is very similar. In both positions, your hips are attached to your opponent's shoulders, and you have a 90 degree angle. If the bow and arrow choke is failing, transitioning to the arm bar is often a great option, as are other upper body submissions. You can even transition from the arm bar to the back for the bow and arrow. Thank you for sticking around until the end of the video. If you're still here, please leave a comment or a fist bump, and I'll see you guys next time.