HANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHANHAN Here I have good head position as my head acts as a barrier to prevent James from shooting to my legs. But as James starts changing his angle, I lose head position and I lose hip position. Because James' hips are in front of mine, I'm at risk of uchimadas and various other hip throws. For example here, where I get uchimada'd as a result of my careless hip positioning. James does go for an uchimada, but I'm well aware and I'm careful not to drive my weight forward. Which is what is usually needed for this style of throw. Forward momentum. He seems kind of stuck here, unsure what to do, so he pulls guard. But as he does, I time it well. And pin his right leg to the mat, while positioning his left leg to the outside. This is a very good position to finish with a knee slide. But James gets crafty and starts inverting and positioning his left knee slash shin to the inside. This acts as a short frame, a barrier keeping me away from controlling his torso. As a last ditch effort to maintain position, I try to pin his hips with my arm. But I bail because I couldn't get his hips pinned and I risk getting triangled. This is what I was trying to do. But as you can see with James inverting, I just couldn't get it in place. As I bail from the position, look how I immediately step over his right leg. So that I have one of his legs on the inside and one of his legs on the outside. This is better passing position for me compared to both of my legs on the inside. These are the types of things that need to become second nature for you when you're grappling. I think about a leg drag, which is why I go two hands on his one leg. But must have felt that it wasn't there. I then try for a side smash, but I couldn't smash his leg enough to the side. So I just roll into a bit of a messy rolling back attack. But I'm not looking to take the back. I'm looking to enter the truck. To do so, I need to intertwine my right leg with his right leg. Right now, it's a bit of A-50-50 position. If I can get my right knee pointing towards his head, I'll have the advantage. And if he can get his right knee pointing towards my head, then he'll have the advantage. I'm fighting for control of his hip with my right hand. And with my left hand, I'm fighting to not let him control my hip. You can't see a grape from this angle, but once I got his hand off my left hip, I was then able to move my hips and move my knee to point towards his head to take the advantage. This is no longer A-50-50 position. I now have him in the truck. And start attacking the calf slicer. For the calf slicer, you can grab the ankle with two hands, but putting the ankle in your inner elbow makes it even more powerful, like I'm doing here. More good stuff coming, but first. Ever notice how rolling in jiu-jitsu can be super unpredictable when it comes to your cardio? One minute you're feeling sharp and have a full gas tank. The next, your legs are giving out. You feel sluggish, and you simply have to slow your pace down. The truth is, it's not just about cardio and conditioning. As a huge part of your performance comes down to electrolytes. When you train hard, you're sweating out more than just water. You're losing sodium, magnesium, and potassium. The minerals that keep your muscles firing and your mind sharp. And if you don't replace them properly, you'll feel it in every roll. That's why I started drinking Element, a zero-sugar electrolyte drink mix. That helps replace what's lost and keep your performance dialed in. No sweeteners, no junk. Just the minerals your body needs in the right ratios. Since adding Element into my routine, I've had better energy during rolls, faster recovery between sessions, and no more post-training cramps. Honestly, there's nothing better than sitting down after training and sipping on Elements, knowing I'm doing a great thing for my body. Plus, now you can grab a free sample pack with any Element order using my link, so you can try their most popular flavors. Get yours at drinklmnt.com slash jordanteaches. This deal is only available through my link. You must go to drinklmnt.com slash jordanteaches. We're back at it, and at this time, I was on a bit of a dummy sweep frenzy. I was dummy sweeping everyone out here. I pull him forward, and he overcorrects by pulling his body weight back. As I come up, James isn't quick enough to gain meaningful connection on me. I have both his feet pointing away from me, which gives me an easy leg drag. However, before I can drop my chest onto him, he uses a long frame by fully extending his arm. But I know that angles beat frames, so I change my angle and start chasing his back. As I chase the back, what I'm looking to do is get his hips in my lap and my chest centered onto his back. But I'm having a bit of a hard time doing that as he's inverting again. Because I can't get a hook on his right side, I'm trying to use my arm to control his right side. Similarly to what is happening here with Jedi. I'm trying to get cross body control. As James starts hiding his back on the mat, I lose chest to back connection completely. The logical choice would be to take chest to chest connection instead. But I wanted the back still, so I keep pursuing it. I try to time my entry to his back, but James gets fully onto his knees, which positions his back higher up and away from me. I should have tried harder to stop him from getting to his knees. I lose it, but I happily take the front headlock. But let go of it and sit to my guard and try to get underneath him. But that fails and James' underhook becomes a little too worrisome. So I bring my elbow back to my body and hook onto his ankle with my legs. I have him in quarter guard, which right now still isn't great, but at least he hasn't passed my guard. As he frees his ankle, I get right to my knees to turtle, to again avoid the guard pass. For those that don't know, it isn't a guard pass when you turtle to avoid the pass. I'm now looking to uncover my head. I start to think about a sit-through, but James falls to his side to avoid it. This is a sit-through. I'm still not out of danger, but I'm being patient, trying to find the path of least resistance to escape. I get back to turtle, and James leaves his left arm hanging onto my waist a bit too casually, and I hit a Peterson roll to come up on top. For the Peterson roll, you trap your partner's wrist to your side, and pull them over top of you as you sit through. The first time I really experienced the power of a Peterson roll was this roll with Preet McKelson. He did it on me a few times, and now I use it often. It looks like James is trying to attack submissions from the bottom. Maybe he's trying to go for a bottom triangle or a buggy choke, but I know as long as I keep his hips pinned, I can stay safe from the submission threats. Once I get my knee over his belly, I know his hips are pinned, and now I just need to make sure I don't get rolled over. I eventually get to mount, and my objective now becomes getting his elbow or elbows at or above his shoulder line, as this is what's needed for most submissions from mount. For example, an arm triangle. But I could also bring my hips from his hips to his shoulders, for an arm bar or a triangle, as there's a path to do that by having his elbows at or above the shoulder line. I start working for the arm triangle, but switch to the Americana, but then switch to the straight arm lock as James straightens his arm to defend the Americana. I just push down with my wrist onto his wrist, and up with my forearm under his elbow to get the tap. Nothing super interesting happens here, so I'll fast forward to this calf slicer. There's not much to say about it, but it is pretty cool. We start again, and this sequence is reminiscent of the opening action. I go from the collar tie to the underhook, with good defensive head position. Now I start really moving, trying to get reactions from him to create an opening for me. However, I should have been a bit more patient as my shot gets sprawled on. I think if I had the energy and desire, I could have held onto his leg and continued to wrestle from here. But instead, I decide to let go of his leg and work from Turtle. I again try to trap his wrist, but this time for a hammer lock. I'm trying to pop my head out of James' left side, and along with my head, his wrist. But James counters by front rolling, and uses his leg on my head to pin my back down to the mat. This is what I was trying to do. I learned this from Joe Brisa, and it's featured in our Rides and Escapes course. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to hit it successfully here, but I've been having a ton of success with it lately. Sorry I haven't been posting as much lately. I've been spending my time enjoying the summer, as well as working on a new course for beginners. It's called the BJJ Beginner Course. The title is straight to the point, just like the content. Thank you for sticking around until the end of the video. If you're still here, please leave a comment or a fist bump, and I'll see you guys next time.