 all rouseouseyryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryryr retired. I never thought about retiring. I always thought like, oh, I'm going to give a break, you know, and, and then I have kids and that break become even longer. But since I have the kids, I always felt like, oh, I want to, I want to, my kids see me competing. I always have their wish. And obviously, like when they're little, it was too hard to think about to take the time off of the fatherhood to go compete, because I feel it's a lot to coordinate it. I knew they're going to miss me if I decide to go compete and start to focus on my stuff, on my dieting, on my training section. So I couldn't do this, but they're getting older. And I feel like now comes the right time. Leo Vieira, who is, who convinced me to sign up with one, he's a, he's a close friend of mine. So he was able to just kind of like get me on the right time because I felt a lot of people strike. When I see a lot of people, like, I feel like every organization reached out to me, but Leo, who was the person that reached out for me from one was the one that kind of was able to just get everything organized on my right time, you know, everything like a, sounds like a perfect, you know? Yeah. I mean, I know how it is. I have three kids and when we had our, our twins after that, it was like, I got to take a break from competing because it's a, it's a lot of work for sure. Um, now that you're back, is there any specific, uh, matches or people that you want to compete against any rematches against people back in the day or any current competitors you'd like to face? Uh, I, I feel like, uh, I just, I just cannot pick a name right now, but I'm someone that I want to test myself. Uh, I don't, I definitely, I don't want to use match, but at the same time, I don't need to go fight the best right away because I'm just, I'm just kind of going back on, you know? So, so I feel like I don't have a specific person, but I'm, I'm, I'm willing to fight anyone. And I don't know if people remember that, but I don't, I also, I never choose weight division. You know, I don't have to be stuck on my division. I always feel like I want to prove that I have a better technique, a better jujitsu than my opponent. And what not a better way to show against somebody bigger, because that's what is the main purpose of jujitsu, you know? Prove that like the technique win the strength. Yeah, I agree. And I think that's one reason why he had so many people be fans of you for so long because, you know, you be courageous and go out there and do the absolute division and beat these huge guys. And, um, I think for people getting into jujitsu, they see that and they're like, oh my God. Um, like that's amazing. And, you know, it inspires them to want to train too. Like I know it inspired me to want to do the absolute division. And, you know, I always had a fun time competing against those big guys, but seeing you could do it. It was like good, a good, like, uh, I guess motivator, uh, for me, like, oh, I could, I could do it too. So yeah, I think that's, that's amazing. See you go against those big guys. I know I forget his name, but the guy that slammed you on your back, like, do you still feel, um, any, like, uh, like, did that injure you at all? Or is there any nagging injuries from that? Uh, not really a job, but obviously like when I got hit that slam, I got the wind out of me. I didn't know how bad it was. Obviously take some time to realize like, uh, it was just the wind out. But when that happened, I felt like, uh, I got hit by a car, you know what I mean? Or a truck on my chest. So I thought like, oh, probably break like a ribs or maybe like a stern or something like that. You know what I mean? But I'm glad there was no injury after that, you know, from that, you know? Yeah. It looked pretty painful. I think a lot of people have seen that clip and just like, oh my God, like that must've, yeah, it must've felt like getting hit by a car for sure. That guy was huge. Um, but is, is there any like, uh, in, uh, lingering injuries or anything like that from, uh, competing over the years or anything that you kind of maybe regret putting your body through over the years that they could help people with their training now and keep their body safe? Jordan, I think I was, I was really good to be less injured than my opponents because that's what makes me able to train more than them. We have to train smart. When I say train smart, it's not training less or training gentle. I was able to try, I always avoid my injuries, but train as much as I did compete against the, the type of people that I compete on. I said the type of people, people, I believe people was always in the steroids, you know what I mean? Steroids on it. And people was always like, uh, uh, bigger than me, even on my division. I don't know if people realize I was always shorter to my division. So everybody feels like feels bigger than me, not just like, uh, by the way, but just kind of lengthwise. And I'm always, I have some injury, but regret, I cannot regret because I, I have enjoyed this so much and have give so much, uh, to jujitsu. And I have also get back to, that was always so much happening, uh, happiness for me, like, uh, to compete. Uh, I don't think I can have regret, but obviously like, uh, uh, I still pay the price. Now. And when I wake up in the morning, I feel like, you know, yeah, no doubt. I know like, uh, in the past, you've mentioned before that, uh, you didn't do a lot of strength and conditioning. You mostly just rolled for your strength and conditioning, which I think is even harder to do when these guys are on steroids and they're just, you know, jacked and super strong. And if you're not doing, uh, you know, any lifting, but you're still beating them, I think that says a lot about your technique, but is that the same, uh, like, is that true now too? Like, do you do any lifting or any strength and conditioning? Sure. I don't think nobody was on my skin to feel like as that what I did, but people has no idea. Like, uh, I was never, I was not even a supplement diet. You know what I mean? Uh, uh, I, I always felt like if I have energy, I prefer to do jujitsu than do something else. And that gives me the most understand that jujitsu I could ever have, because every time I have, I was thinking I was doing jujitsu and I was mostly going live against somebody with higher, uh, or low experience than me during my career. So that, that definitely could give the advantage, but it's hard to people trust on that. And I'm not sure if that will work for everybody. Right. I cannot force everybody like, oh, just do jujitsu. When I say force, I mean like, uh, I tell them like, oh, I don't want you to do condition training. I, I want people to do whatever they think is, is helping them. Jujitsu was helping me. And every time I was doing strength condition, I was not feeling the benefit. I have so many, uh, uh, conditional training that try to convince me to work out. And I have tried, but I never felt, much benefit like I have when I was just doing jujitsu. So that's why I would just stick to my, to my mind that I felt that was working. Got to one point that I was going like a back and forth, like, oh, you should do this. No, you should do that. And I was like, oh, maybe I'm not doing that. Okay. Everybody's doing, because on my generation, people was already like doing a really hard strength condition, like a lot of cross train. So I was always going back and forth, but then got to one point that was, I already won my first, uh, ADCC. I won my first, like a IBJJF. I won again and again. And I realized like, uh, I don't think it's because any condition because I'm not doing that. Oh, okay. I'm six months off. Okay. I did only two months and then realized, okay, let me just stick to my guts and do what makes me happy. And you know, that's why I was, I was like, be able to enjoy training to go compete, but obviously I, you have to find your way to avoid injury. And maybe if I have done a little bit of a strength condition, maybe I wouldn't have like the injuries, the pain that I have today, maybe, you know, but you know, I cannot go back to figure that out. You know? Yeah, that's very true. I see what you mean. Cause I feel the same way. A lot of times where like, I've only have so much energy and I can use it on lifting or I can use it on jujitsu and more often than not, I use it on jujitsu cause that's a lot more fun. So yeah, I see what you mean there. And, uh, like, what do you think of the current generation of jujitsu? Like, uh, how has it changed from back in the day to, to now? Like, do you like the direction it's going? Uh, that's so much is going on. I just, I just wish people continue to be humble. You know what I mean? Because, um, martial arts fighting outside world can be very intimidating. I just wish jujitsu, the martial arts could be something to help people, uh, go outside and deal with the problems that they, you know, that they face. I just wanted you to be like a open door for everybody. You know what I mean? And sometimes when people is just not humble, people just be cocky, like, uh, you know, talk or trash talk. Like sometimes I just avoid, avoid the normal people to try to do jujitsu. And I mean, those, those are just one of those things. No, but I see the jujitsu just keep involved. You know what I mean? And when I say involved, like not always for the better, but keep changing, but I can see like a new move, new techniques. You know what I mean? But like, uh, obviously, like, uh, I believe can get a lot better. I believe like, uh, if we put our time on mine too, there's just can, can be a lot better than it is right now. You know what I mean? Yeah. I agree a hundred percent. Like I'm not a huge fan of, um, trash talk and stuff like that. Like, and I think like, uh, you're kind of comparable to GSP in a sense, like he was popular, uh, because he didn't need to trash talk to be popular. He was just really good and really, you know, nice. But then there's people that they kind of make up for the, their lack of, um, success or technique by trash talking, or some people are really good and they still trash talk. And I don't know, I do, I personally don't like it, but I, some people do, so it's entertaining for them. But I understand, understand the entertainment, you know what I mean? And some people make as a fun, you know what I mean? So if, if people can figure out like a line that makes fun entertainment, you know what I mean? And not just talk about other people's family, maybe, you know what I mean? Like, you know, I think, I feel there's a line, you know what I mean? If you, if you try, don't cross the line. I feel, I feel it can be like, uh, uh, can be very benefit for Jiu Jitsu. I mean, make entertainment, but not just like, not as bad, you know, as, as you see sometime, you know? And I was like, maybe I'm just thinking about too much MMA. I think like a grappling could be, people is more respectful, you know? Yeah, I agree. Like, I think trash talking, like Chael Sonnen in MMA, I think he was really funny, but like, yeah, exactly. Right. So, but then, you know, I know like, like Dylan Dennis, for example, I, I heard you kicked him out because he was, you know, kind of trash talking too much. Um, like, is that true? Can you touch on that a little bit? Um, I, I never really kicked him out. I just gave him like a break off of the gym. And I felt like, oh, he needs some time just to think about, of, of, of his attitude in the gym. And it was not just the trash talk. It was just like, uh, acting very immature in the gym. And like, in a ways that like, uh, I don't want to have to remember everything because that was a lot of everything was not just one thing that he did was a lot of little things that was like daily, just kind of get me tired. And I say, get me tired. Like a image. I was, I was teaching every day. Uh, I was at home taking care of like a young kids every day. So it's already exhaust to keep like, uh, your, it's already exhaust to do your job routine, your work routine, your home, like responsibility. And then you go home and have to do like a, all the people's problems. They're like, uh, could be easy. Avoid. I was always like, uh, end up with some situation that he created. So, so it's just like exhausting on me. And I give him a time, like, okay, you take a time off of the gym. And after this amount of time you come back if you want to. And then obviously he never come back. And I ended up with the, uh, people think that I kind of kick him out by and really kicking out. And obviously maybe he felt forced to live, you know, maybe that's how he felt, but I just want you to feel like, uh, uh, I cannot, I cannot deal with like the situation that he was creating. You know, I can't recommend transparent labs, protein powder enough. I love it. It's a hundred percent grass fed and it tastes great. I put it in my cereal. I make shakes with it. I just put it in everything. Really transparent labs is having a black Friday sale. You can get 25% off all products. Plus if you spend $150 after the discount, you get a free bundle that includes a free bag, five samples and a free shaker. So mark your calendars because this sale is only on from November 28th to December 3rd. Yeah, that makes sense. And I appreciate the insight because I remember when it happened. Um, I was so curious to like, you know, what went on there and now I get to talk to the man himself about it. So that's just a really cool thing for me. So let me just say like, for example, that was that time that he was prank call people in a very, like a very, like, uh, he was making people crazy. How, how you prank call people that work with you, like people that like, uh, have like, uh, uh, not, not normal life. People like a professional, you know, people that has like the work and then they're getting prank calls. I was like, this is like, this is too much. I just can't handle that. You know? Yeah. I remember I used to do that when I was like 10, 11, you know, but I was 10 or 11. So yeah, I can see why that'd be annoying, but, uh, yeah, I want to ask you too. Uh, you moved to Hawaii. What was the reasoning for that? And, uh, do you plan on staying in Hawaii? Uh, I definitely want to plan to, to raise my family here. I feel like that's the goal. I used to plan a lot to the future and then realize like the future, you don't have like a full control of that. So I don't know what the future would do to me, but I definitely want to raise my family. I, I, I'm planning to stay here a long time. I hope I can do that, but it was definitely what I think the pandemic like has a lot about that because my gym was close. My gym was completely shut down. And then I used to leave like a wall to wall to my gym. And then when I realized like, uh, my kids was stuck inside the apartment and I couldn't do jujitsu and I have like, uh, very good friends over here in Hawaii. And then they start incentive to like, uh, uh, what are you doing? There's nothing you can do that right now. You're not doing jujitsu. It's your chance to come here and, you know, try a new life over here. And then I start to feel bad for my kids. And when you feel we have options, once they have, once they have options, like, okay, now we're having a hard time, but if you do this change, like you can help to your family to have like a better leave. And I felt, I felt like, oh, I have options. It's not an easy option to move to Hawaii. It was, it was a lot, it was a big decision to, to leave the city like that, to care so much well of me, like New York city. And, but I, I just realized my, my family, my kids need that. And I, and I was able to do that. So I didn't think twice when I realized, and I think that was the right thing to do. You know? Yeah. It looks amazing. Like I wish I lived in Hawaii. I live in Canada and it's really cold here. Yeah. I think about moving to places like that all the time, but yeah, I mean, it's, I think for you, like, it definitely makes sense. Like you have such a big name that you can, you know, train and teach anywhere and people want to learn from you. So I think that's a, I think Hawaii was a really good decision. And like to your, your kids, did they, were they happy to go or are they like, Oh, I want to stay here with my friends and everyone I know? Joe, there was not, you know, they were like, I felt really stuck in their partner. So it was very easy to convince them and they were much little back then. You know what I mean? It's hard to believe like how much time already passed, you know? But it was not that hard to convince them, but I don't know if people realize I moved to Hawaii twice. After a year of a year, everything started opening up in New York. It was always my plan. I was like, okay, everything's open up. I need to go back to save my gym. I need to, I need to, I don't want to let go of my gym. I need to go back. So I, and I did that, but then after like almost a year, my kids didn't get used to, to leave this year again. And I was like, okay, uh, things not going well to them. They're having a hard time in school. I was like, okay, we're doing this. We're moving back. And because everything was going well over here and then I took them back to New York and then everything started to get very messy for them. I felt bad. You know, the school was not going well. And, you know, as a kid, like, uh, you know, when you go to school is a big part of your life. So if you're not happy, like going to school, I, I felt like I have to do something. So my gym is still in New York. I have a new gym over here, like, uh, but I'm just happy that I was able to just keep my gym in New York because, uh, I took so long to make that happen to grow the gym over there. So I hope people know that like, I still have a very, like a good gym set up over there. I have my tails who is, who is my main guy over there. Who's a, uh, who is like a family to me, who's the person responsible over there, but I'm, I'm always there and I'm back to teach again because I just opened my place over here. Yeah. Mateus is really good. Your students are in good hands with him for sure. And, uh, yeah, like, uh, I wanted to kind of shift gears a little bit. I know you were diagnosed with cancer, uh, a while back and now you're in remission. Uh, I don't even know. I don't even know what that means the remission, but like, uh, I'm almost two years cancer-free. So I just passed like a year and a half. So I'm looking positive for, um, I'm reaching the two years. You know what I mean? That's amazing. Did, uh, did it shift your perspective on life or, or anything? Uh, obviously make you appreciate it. Like the days that everything is going well, you know, when you have like a, a very, like a, uh, shitty day, you know what I mean? It makes you feel like, okay, I just wish was, it was not a day like today. I just wish it was just like yesterday. You know what I mean? So, but I don't think I couldn't, I appreciate it more life than I did before. You know what I mean? Like, uh, uh, um, so I don't want to go crazy on that. Like people say like, oh, your life changed. Like, yeah, my life changed, but, uh, I have a better understand, like what makes me happy right now, but I don't think I could appreciate it, enjoy more life that I did before. You know, but I'm just happy that like, I don't have the days that I was having before doing the chemo. It was just like, it was just sucks. It's just like, uh, I'm even going to take some time to think about like how bad that was because the time passed, I feel like we forget everything and I, and I appreciate to forget the bad stuff, you know, but definitely, I, I definitely appreciate the days that I have today and not the days that I was having like, uh, uh, two years ago, you know? Yeah. I think like when you lose your health, uh, that's like, it becomes the only thing that really matters. And it's great that you have it back. Like super happy to hear that cancer free for two years. That's, uh, that's amazing. Has it affected your body in any way? Like, do you think it'll affect your, like, do you feel any physically weaker or anything, or do you feel mostly fine? I feel like I'm adapting, you know, and once I adapt, like I'm adapting for my new body, when I say new body, I took like, um, uh, half of my stomach. So I took a long time to start to be able to eat again. That's what makes me lose weight. You know, I lost a lot of weight in the beginning. I put all the way back pretty much again, but I lost a lot of weight. Um, I, I took like two thirds of my esophagus. So my stomach is kind of like stretched up. So those things like, uh, you know, I take some adaptation, but it's, it's unbelievable how we can adapt for everything the same way. How like it's just to teach you to adapt for things. Like I, we can adapt for all the other things too. I almost don't remember how my body was, but obviously that, that was a lot of change, but thank God, I don't feel doing the train. When I say, if you're doing the train, like, uh, they say, I'm going to have more reflux, but I'm, I'm upside down. I have people on top of me. It doesn't make me feel any worse or any better. You know, it feels like a pretty normal right now. Yeah. That's great, man. I've got really bad acid reflux and it's like super frustrating. Like, how did you figure out that you had a stomach cancer? Um, they say it was a cause of my acid reflux, but I never felt any acid reflux. So they say like, uh, um, Oh, maybe you have a silent acid reflux, but I, I was like, I was not feeling anything, you know? So one day I started to feel like, uh, the food was getting a little stuck on my chest. And then I was like, uh, okay, that's, that's, that's weird. And then the next day again, and then every meal, and it was only the first bite, the first bite. I mean, like literally like the first thing I put on my mouth, anything, rice, bread, anything. The first time I felt like a little pressure on my chest. And I was like, uh, okay, that's strange. And then after like a couple of days, I was like, okay, I have to go to the doctor. Okay. Doctor, you know, it takes a little longer to schedule. Okay. I wait like a month to go to the doctor and then continue the same thing. Didn't get any worse. Wasn't good, but it wasn't getting any worse. And I was like, okay, I can live with this. It was not something that was bothering me that much, but I always felt the responsibility. Like after you have kids, I felt like, okay, I need to take care of, of my body. When I say take care of my body, like if I feel something, I need to go check out. So I always have that responsibility and basically that's what saved me because I was able to cut that in an early stage and, you know, think it would go in a really bad way, you know? So thank God. Yeah. Thank God. Um, sorry. Like what exactly did they do? I'm just curious for my own sake, like they took a part of your esophagus out or? It was a big surgery. Imagine your stomach has a ball, like a little, like a bag to the side. So they took like a one, they took two turns of my esophagus. So now my stomach has to reach the top because I don't have that long pipe anymore. So my, my stomach is more like a straight line, like a straight pipe, you know what I mean? And, and I, I just, now I just have to avoid like acid food or, or citric food. I mean, those are, those are the things that kind of like a change for me, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's basically what I've been doing. I mean, obviously I don't have cancer or I'm unaware I do. Hopefully I don't. Um, but like, yeah, there's so many foods I can't eat and I gotta be so careful, like to not make my acid reflux worse. It's a, yeah, it's very frustrating for sure. But I just, but I just recommend like to get an endoscopy, you know, because that's what, that's how I find out, you know, if there's any problem, ask for a doctor for an endoscopy, because I feel like, uh, that's what saved me. And I feel, I don't think we're so aware about that. You know what I mean? I was just lucky that my doctor, like, okay, my doctor didn't even look at me. He's like, no, let's get an endoscopy. And that was the best thing she did for me. You know, man, I've been waiting for one for like three months now. I live in Canada. We don't have the best, uh, healthcare and it's been three months and I haven't even heard, uh, for a call back from, for that. So hopefully, hopefully it's soon. Push and reach, reach for somebody else. Don't, don't wait. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe I should go to the States. And yeah, I gotta figure something out for sure. Um, but yeah, you have a family, you have a family. You gotta take care of yourself, you know? Exactly. Yeah. Responsibility when you become a dad, for sure. Um, how is the gym going in, uh, in Hawaii and the training itself? Do you find, uh, the training like, um, like, how do you find, like, does training now differ from how it used to be? Like, uh, training before and like the way you run your class, like, has anything changed? George, I was very successful in New York City and reminding so much when I start the gym in New York City in 2009. So that is such a, it's just an inspiring moment for me. I feel like I'm just like, uh, I'm not tired because a lot of people was telling me like, oh, you're going to start all over again. You're going to do this all over again. And then that kind of was making me feel like, oh, dude, I'm, I'm doing something wrong. You know what I mean? Like this is going to be, maybe it's going to be a bad thing, but I feel like a young again, because it reminds me the stuff that I did when I was much younger. So I'm, I'm happy. I'm very happy with that. But people doesn't know the last two years was really suck. Jordan, uh, no train, cancer treatment. Like I was really off of things that I really enjoyed to do. So that gave me even more like inspiration to do what I'm doing right now. So to be able to go to a normal train, when I say normal train, like I always have my class to train. It was my class. I was teaching the class and training people maybe forgot about that. Or maybe never people, maybe some young people never have a chance to like, uh, uh, follow my, uh, my interviews, but I was always trained on my class. You know what I mean? And when people talk about training camp, I was like, uh, training camp for me was every day training camp, you know, because I always felt like I need to be ready because there was not much schedule. There was not many tournaments, like a plan I had. So many times it was just a super fight. And then super fight, like they don't give a month. Uh, they don't give like a couple months of advantage. They just call like a month before. Oh, you're ready to, to go do like a no gi super fight against this person. Like you never have a chance to say no, because like you don't have all the chances of that. So I feel like I'm back to that. You know, I want to say back to that. I just started teaching like a three weeks ago and I just started training like a full time three weeks ago. So it feels like a very like inspired moment for me, you know? Yeah. Was it tough? Like when you weren't training to kind of, uh, cause sometimes, sometimes this happens to me where I don't train for a while and maybe I'm sick or whatever it is. And I feel like I start to lose my identity where like, you know, I'm a jujitsu guy. Like that's what I do. And then if I'm not doing it, it just feels so, I don't know, empty and weird. I imagine for you, it must be even more so you spend a lot of time, uh, a lot of, a long break from doing jujitsu. Like how did you deal with that mentally? Jo, the death jujitsu was always my happy place. You know what I'm saying? Like, uh, oh, I didn't know that was good. I already felt emotion just to say that, you know what I mean? So jujitsu was, it's always my happy place. Even like with all the happens that I have outside jujitsu, but jujitsu was the link to everything. You know what I mean? I feel like I got everything through jujitsu, you know what I mean? But people don't realize like we need people. We need, we need us as a human being. I feel like we need that contact to people. And today people going away from that people literally going too far away from that with the, with the social media. Like I feel the social media just keep us apart. You know what I mean? Because, uh, we most like, we mostly, uh, the word most like is teaching us how to stay online. You know what I mean? And not like a present to people. So I feel like this is what I was missing more in jujitsu. And, and I feel like I I wasn't able to have that. And that was like a big part of my life that like, uh, I was, was more and more clear how much like, uh, uh, my personal, my personality was, was, was missing this. You know what I mean? And, and I feel like all the people feel the same. They just don't know. They just don't realize, but it was very clear for me because I was so sick and I was, I was spending like every two weeks, every two weeks for a long time, I would stay two days on bed. And those two days, like, it's crazy how like, uh, I was not interacting. Now, even with my kids, I was just laid down that kind of, just kind of, you know, having like a hard time. And then when I was going back like, uh, to, to the life, to, to people, like, it was amazing. You know what I mean? How much like we missed that. And I'm not saying it was easy. It was almost like intimidated to go out, you know, after two days in bed, you know what I mean? But we need that, you know, we need to pay, we need to face the world outside. Yeah. I agree. No matter how hard it is, it's, you got, that's what you got to do. And do you think you would have, uh, came back to competition without that break, without, um, having to just be taken from you for a while? Jordan, my doctor, my main doctor, the surgery who did my, my big surgery, she gave no perspective. You know, she, she knows like, she's like, I never have to do this. This is somebody so young, like you. I didn't somebody younger than you who doesn't do a sports like you. He, he just told, he got back to play tennis. So she has no, she gave no expectations from me, literally. So I couldn't make like a big plans. I'm someone that always have a big plans, but obviously I kept my plans on the side. I was just going day by day, you know, but she gave no expectation. Yeah. That must've been tough, right? Like not knowing if you are going to be able to train again or not like, man, I, yeah, that, that must've been really hard. Yeah. It was hard, but it was hard, but like, uh, uh, I always like a face my, my problems that way. I always like, uh, when I say that way, I mean, uh, it doesn't matter how hard it was. I was like, I always felt like, oh, there's a, there's a chance, you know, there's a chance things are going to go well. Okay. It sucks now, but I feel like, uh, it's not as bad. I always have like, uh, uh, we always talk about that, but it is, we need a positive mind. We just, we need to be positive for ourself. You know what I mean? Not just positive to just to people around you or else, but you have to be positive for you every day. You know what I mean? When I say every day, every day you wake up, you need to be positive for you because we need that. You know, we can't, we can't think about like something wrong is going to happen. Something wrong is, it's, it's happened now. And I don't think tomorrow is going to be a better day. Like, oh, I'm, I'm, uh, I'm done with that. I don't, I don't, I can't live like that. I feel like, uh, there's a better days every day, you know, will come, you know? Is that how you approach like your mindset to competing too? Or do you, or did you get nervous in the past? Uh, or did you just, yeah, kind of tell yourself like, uh, you know, you can't worry about that and things will be, they'll go how they go. I believe, you know, when I say believe, like, uh, look, there's always two ways to think, okay, look, okay. Something's bad. This happened right now. But then I look next, next, next, next to that bad thing. I was like, okay, but that's a good thing next to, and I, and I attached to that. Like, for example, uh, I think there's a funny way to describe that. Like, uh, as a kid, I was always like a scare kid of like a dark, a scare, a scare of like, uh, uh, uh, a ghost spirit, you know what I mean? Something like, you know, something that maybe, I just grew up, hear those stuff, especially in Brazil. We hear a lot of like those scare stories, you know, and people used to say that, you know, especially like, uh, coming from like a really small town, we used to hear some, some crazy stuff. So I grew up hearing those stuff and that was pretty scary for me. So I'm not the type of guy that like, uh, growing up, they're like, when I hear a noise, I don't think it's the worst. I think like, okay, that was the door. You know, I'm, I'm immediately find like something that doesn't make me feel is something bad, you know? And I take that for, for life. When I say for life, uh, something bad happened. I was like, okay, no, no, no, no, but it's not that happy. Probably something like this. So I always like to look for the bright side, you know? And, but at the same time, if I have a chance to go figure it out, I'll go figure out what, what is that? And I don't keep just kind of like, uh, uh, with some crazy ideas on my mind, like, Oh, what was that? And I mean, I'll go figure it out. But if I cannot figure out, okay, it was just the, it was just the water that was on the, on the, on the faucet that just dropped, you know what I mean? I always, I'm pretty good to find a, a good explanation that doesn't bug my mind. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's really funny. I was actually the same way as a kid, like very scared of the dark, very like afraid of ghosts or whatever, but I would watch like a movie. It's like, uh, like an actual person trying to kill you. I wouldn't care. Cause I'd feel like, okay, I can just fight them, but like a ghost you can't fight. So it's like, I don't know. It was more scary, but do you think that a mindset has helped you a lot in competition? Like, do you think that if you didn't, Oh yeah. Helps everything. When I say everything like, uh, I have the ability, I don't know if that's good or bad, but works for me. I have the ability to look to my opponent and I see like a, uh, a problem on him. I see like, oh, he's weaker on his arm. Oh, his leg is too long. I don't think his legs don't be too strong. It's just too long. I look something and I look something that give me positive that I can win the match. I don't know if that's like, uh, uh, you can't really imagine what I'm trying to say, but like, uh, I don't look at him and I look something that's scary. I don't look for something like that. Oh, he's, he's pretty scary guy. He's a big guy. Oh, he probably like, I has a very strong grip. I don't look to something that are going to intimidate him. I look for something like, uh, Oh, he's tall, you know? Okay. I feel like I can get under him better. Oh, I feel like, uh, because he's tall and big, I feel like, uh, there's more room to go to a single leg. Even he's bigger. I'm just, I don't know if everybody can imagine everything that I'm trying to say, but I always look for something that was going to push me forward and not kind of make me like, uh, uh, try get away or escape, you know, or just hide, you know? Yeah, no, that makes complete sense. Just, I guess your perspective, if you know, something's a good thing or a bad thing, you know, if they're really jacked, it could be, well, they're really strong. They're going to kill me. Or it could be like, oh, they're probably like not as flexible. They're not going to be as fast or whatever, you know, there's looking at it. But John, every day when I say every day, like everything I try to do that way, for example, I wake up, look, when I wake up, you don't believe if I have to run and chase somebody in the morning, I don't know how I'm going to do when I wake up. But I don't think about that when I wake up. I don't think about like, they're like, oh, if I have to compete right now, or if I go train right now, it's going to be horrible. When I think about that and I wake up like, oh, my back is sore. And what I'm trying to say now, I'm talking about the last 20 years, the last 20 years, I wake up with like, I'm jammed, you know what I mean, on my body. And my body is still like warming up for the last 20 years. So it's not something new for me now that I'm 43 years old. So, but then on my mind, I was like, I wake up, I was like, oh, this is like all crooked. Everything's off from the train yesterday in the evening. My body is still recovered from that. But on my mind, I was like, okay, I know in three hours, I'll be fine. I know, I know towards the end, I know towards the middle of the day, I'll be fine. So I don't keep my mind like upset. I was like, oh, I can barely reach something. I mean, you know, so, so basic, so basic, like, I'm just not focused in something that is gonna bother me or, or is gonna like, I'm sorry, I was just getting a message from my wife. It was just distracting on the screen. So I just don't look for something that's gonna, that's gonna hurt me or upset me, you know, John. Yeah, no, that, that totally makes sense. Has there, has there ever been a competitor that made you feel a little bit like, I don't know, nervous or like, I don't know. Yeah. Is there any been some, has there ever been like a rival or someone you just like, I don't know, I had a hard time with? John, I'll need more time to think about that because I just thought I don't think about that much, you know what I mean? And that kind of, and that kind of goes against what I just told you. But for example, I can't remember as when I was very young, for example, if it was a ball guy with a big cauliflower ear, that was enough for me. When I was 16, 15, I was like, oh, this is gonna be a hard fight. This is gonna be a hard man. And then I realized like, that doesn't mean nothing. And doesn't mean nothing if he's like, if he's looking at me or if he's angry. And I mean, that was, that was just enough, like, to bother me before. And today I was like, oh, I just, I just don't focus on that, you know. I was gonna let you, you know, I just have one interview right after this, John. And they keep texting me like, oh, they're waiting for you for the next one. No, it's my fault. I got greedy. I was trying to get, I was trying to talk to you a bit longer. I could talk to you all day. Really appreciate it. I appreciate it. The time and like, I don't know if you know, I can't go over and over with this. I mean, I can just keep going. That's why, you know, maybe we can do it again sometime. I really enjoy talking to you. And hopefully I can come visit in Hawaii one day and get to roll with you, kick my butt. I really enjoy that. I'll try. I don't know if I can, John. I'll try. I'm sure you can. All right. Take care.