 similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar I will get to those questions. So we launched examinepro today, but we have spent over two years talking to clinicians, physicians, pharmacists, registrations, everyone across the spectrum of health to figure out how can we, as the experts on supplement and nutrition research, help you do your work. And there was three primary areas where there was a lot of interest in, in safety, in building handouts, and building protocols. So we'll go over safety first. Now, there's two ways to access this information. The easiest one is embedded on the supplement pages. So as you're browsing, you'll see there's a new button here for safety information. Just like the rest of the examinep, we've adopted the same kind of normalized format across all of our pages. First, we have the safety summary. This is a quick overview and brief on the safety concerns for the intervention you're looking at. If there's any concerns around the way it's produced or manufactured, and we'll talk about it right here. The first kind of common section is side effects. So this is side effects caused by the ingestion of this or the usage, sorry, of this supplement. Now, most of the time you can see the routes is oral. At times there will be times where it's applied topically or even inhaled that can have potential side effects. After the side effects, we have interactions. These are drugs, drug classes, and supplements that interact with the specific supplement. Generally, there's not that many supplement, supplement interactions. It does happen, and if it happens, we do cover it. But most of the time it covers drugs and drug classes. You can see there's a couple of supplements here that do interact with caffeine, cocoa, aphedrine, and melatonin. Now, just like classic examinep style, we're not just telling you, hey, this is a bad interaction, this is a good interaction. We give you levels of evidence and level of severity. So this way you can gauge yourself, hey, when you're talking to a patient or a client and there's a potential interaction with the supplement they're taking, you can decide if it's a big concern or not. And in typical examinep style, you can filter it, so you can only see the most severe things if that's what you're looking for. And you can always type in here to filter automatically. You don't have to dig through it yourself. As always, we're trying to make the information easy for you to access and play around with effectively. We then cover pregnancy and lactation. These are obviously two very, very special groups of individuals, and then we have precautions. This one's interesting because it's basically concerns for any specific group or demographic of people. You can see here that people with disease states and also even for the general population, we have a potential concern for a caffeine. Finally, we then cover world anti-doping agency. To be honest, pretty much every supplement is okay, but we do cover this information just so that you feel a little bit more comfortable and confident in possibly recommending this to athletes. Now, one thing you'll notice is all of these things here are linked, well, it might happen, and I'm using this as a made-up example. I'm talking to a patient and they say, hey, I was taking the supplement and caused me anxiety, and you're like, wait a minute, maybe it's something other than caffeine that can cause this anxiety. We've done reverse lookups on all of these things. You, in this case, click on anxiety, it tells you other supplements that have anxiety as a side effect. The idea is not just that, hey, I'm looking up specific information on an individual supplement, but I can look up other information on the population I'm talking to. You might have someone that has epilepsy, you click on it, and it tells you other supplements that might be concerned for that specific demographic, in this case, epilepsy. Now, if you are a health practitioner and someone is coming to you, you likely, and you're just looking up safety information, you likely don't want to look up every single page, right? You're not gonna be like, okay, what else are you taking? Hypothetically, they say creatine, you're like, okay, now I gotta click on creatine, now I gotta go all the way down to safety database. It's a little bit of work, right? It's not very fast, it's not very efficient. So that's why we created the safety checker. Now the safety checker is basically all the safety information you need immediately with nothing else in between. So we'll pick a random supplement here, we'll say AlphaGPC, the information's right there. You don't have to scroll through everything else that you might not need for that specific situation. You may need more information, but if you don't, and you just want the safety information, it's all here. The other nice thing is we also say and remember what you've done. So for example, you might be a natal care specialist. So you really just care about pregnancy and lactation. You don't care about this, all this other stuff. You don't have to, we'll save what you're looking at. So now I'm looking at 5-HDP, you can see everything is collapsed and the only information we have in this case is that there is no information around 5-HDP usage if you are pregnant or lactating. But the nice thing also about our safety checker here is it's not just a supplement. It's all the side effects, precautions, and drugs and drug classes we were talking about. So you might have someone who has some liver issues, you type in liver and there's multiple populations and side effects that we are looking for. So you might, hey, they have a side effect of liver toxicity, are there supplements? In fact, there are in our database four separate supplements that could have the side effect of liver toxicity. So our safety information is not just embedded in our pages, but it's also built into a checking tool which lets you quickly and easily look up not only safety information on specific supplements, but for specific population, side effects, drugs, and more. The next thing I'd like to show you is our handout builder. Now the reality is there's a lot of bad information out there. It's endless, it never stops. But what we let you do is make dynamic and personalized handouts. So we'll make up an example one right now just to create a new handout. Let's call it creatine, keep it simple. Now when you click on add content, we have roughly somewhere between 30 to 40 million words written on the exam and you have the ability to embed in most of that information into handouts and you can do it as dynamically as you want. So in this case, I'm looking at creatine, I'm like, hey, you know what, I think I want all these common questions. You know what, they're not pregnant and lactating, they're not concerned about that. And I happen to constantly hear about our kidney safer or is creatine okay if you have concerns around your kidneys? You'll see we're just matching across. There's a lot of information here and you can even be like, hey, wait a minute, my person really cares about creatine testosterone. I wanna add this table of information. I click add and the handout is immediately built. Now, when we view this handout, all the information I added is right here. Now what's really cool in my opinion of our handout builder and our protocol builders, everything's dynamic. You might go like, you know what, I just really, really wanna put how does creatine work right at the top? And you can always, by the way, preview the information. Our handout builder is immediately updated. You can see how does creatine work is right up here. You might decide, hey, you know what, I don't want my patient clients to be able to download PDFs. You know what, they don't need references, but table of contents would be really, really good. And you know what, let me add my business information and logo. I refresh this, it's immediately here. Now, the reason there's no business logo business information is I don't have any upload and I'll show you where you get it uploaded. We can see the table of contents are here. There are no references. That table added is right here at the end. All the information automatically updated. Now, what we are telling all of our health professionals is you should likely use the live link that you can share with your patient or client. So you create it, you copy the link, and now you can share it with them. The reason why is because as we update information on our website, your handout automatically updates. You don't have to chase information. You don't have to worry, hey, I give this PDF to my client a year ago. Is this still accurate or not? All you need to worry about is, is examined updating this information? And the answer is yes. So as we continue to research, as our team of over 30 researchers continue to unearth information and we continue to update our pages, this information also stays up to date and accurate. We might find out a huge concern around the safety for creating. I'm making this up, but as an example, and we update the safety summary, that is important and useful information that not only you need, but also your patients and clients. So that's the power of our handout builders. Not only you can customize, you can add any content. We can add a free form one. Just take this. It's my orders. And I've added this little field right here. It's added right there. And you know what? I've popped it right to the top. So the first thing they see is, just take this, it's my orders. And you might even be like, hey, you know what? We don't even need this overview. Why do we even bother with it? You could edit the title and you can even just hide the title. So you'll see it says title hidden. We refresh right here. There is the overview, no title there at all. So that's the benefit of our handout builder is it's very customizable. It's very, very customizable. You can modify it however you want. And we have templates already ready that you can just use to get going right there. You can preview them obviously. You can also filter them out. So I'll just type in INS. There's Insanade and multivitamins. You can obviously filter things right here. And you can also start them. So they can be your favorites. And when you're talking to a patient or client, if there's one that you regularly use with them, there's your start options right there. You don't have to think too hard. One thing I want to note is we're very, very obsessed with feedback. So there's a feedback link on every page. So if anything seems wrong, if anything seems wrong, off, sorry, or it's not working, just click on Send Feedback. We want to know, we will improve and we will fix it. I want to show you the business settings before I get to the final part of Protocol Builder. So again, you can see you can add a logo here. You can add business information here. And you can set your default settings here. You can be like, for every handout I build, I always want a table of contents and I don't want references. This is now saved. Any new handout you build will always have these settings. Just to be clear, this does not apply to existing handouts. Protocols you build, only future ones, because the settings they customize every time you build a new one. The final thing I'm going to show you is our Protocol Builder. It's basically our handout builder, but a lot more advanced and a lot more useful for specific supplement recommendations. So again, we'll create a new protocol. We'll start a brand new one. I typed in Bone Health. Let's do it. Why not? Bone Health, add information. Now, the difference for this one is you look up conditions that we have on examine and we will give you grades and our recommendations for the specific supplements and that condition. This is actually not live on our website. If you know our examine database, we only have grades on outcomes, but we've been working on it for over the past year to add grades to conditions and we will be releasing it later this month, but it is now built into our Protocol Builder. So I'll add calcium, vitamin D and magnesium. When you see there's ways to preview always, you can always see the content yourself before obviously you add it. You can filter by grades. You don't understand what grades are. We explain to him and you can also filter by the type of content. You can manually add your own supplement pretty easily too. And again, you can add your own free-form content as we saw in the handout builder. Now, what's cool about the Protocol Builder is we're actually giving you full protocol recommendations. So I added these three, calcium, vitamin D and magnesium. And not only do we just give you obviously information on each, we give you dosage and safety information. Some people are not, you know, their eyesight's not great. We also let you expand this and look at the full details. But we don't just give it to you on a table. You can also see it as a document. So depending again on whatever you prefer, and in this case I've turned on PDFs, you can do PDFs too. You can send a table view, you can send a document view, you can send a link or you can send a PDF, whatever you want. And everything is editable. So I can go in right here and I can specifically recommend a brand. I highly recommend you get X-brand with vitamin D. I'm making this up but you get the idea. I save it and immediately again, it's updated right there that I highly recommend you get X-brand with vitamin D. And just like our handout builder, you can move these around and now magnesium is at the top. The options are right there. You can modify them, you can share them just like the handout builder and the information will again automatically update. So I'm just gonna double check to show you. Magnesium is now at the top. And as I said, you can add any supplement directly if you want, you know what? I think creatine is really good for bone health. Regardless of what the examin says, I'm adding creatine. That creatine is now added to the bottom. You'll see it does not have the indication of bone health but you can add that yourself. And there's a general dosage information and safety information. Finally, we just check out our, I'll just be also clear, just like handout builder, you can star, un-star, filter. All that stuff is pretty perfunctory and pretty simple. Finally is just the pro dashboard. Here we show you your start handouts and protocols and the five newest ones you've done. You can expand them to the 15 most newest ones. You can view them as a card or as a list, whatever you prefer, right? Everyone has their different preferences. We've tried to make it as accessible and as easy for you. This is the examin pro kind of quick overview. You can see how it lets you dynamically build content and information that's useful for your patients and clients. And you can see how it aligns totally on top of examin. As we update information, the handouts and protocols and safety checker continue to update automatically, which then lets you do what's most important, focus on your patients and clients. That wraps up my quick, quick demo of examin pro in the Q and A or chat feature. If you have any questions, if you have any concerns, whatever thing you wanna get out, please ask and I'll be more than happy to answer them. There's very likely someone else who has the exact same question. I'll repeat the question that I'll allow just so everybody hears them. There's a question around, hey, if I subscribe during the sale, will the price go up? No, we are not Netflix, we're not like the other companies. If you sign up with us at DollarX, you will continue to pay DollarX. So we have people who signed up over a decade ago at a much cheaper price and they have not received a single price increase. Once you sign up, that's the price we expect you to pay and we're not gonna charge you more than that. Hilary asked, with sharing the link to the patient, can the patient pin the handout at home? If you enable the PDF feature, yes, but also yes. I mean, at the end of the day, it's just a browser, right? So I could be looking at any handout and I can still choose to print it myself. You can't stop that, that's built into the browser, nothing can be done with that. So Hilary, yes, they can still print it on their own if that is what they wish. You can make it a little bit easier for them with a nice PDF or they can still just directly print what they're viewing. WilliMasked, do you intend to integrate within each of our systems in the future, such as Epic? That is absolutely yes in our plans. Over the next few weeks, as customers sign up, we will be heavily asking them questions around integration, especially what other software systems they use. I can say that Fullscript, Epic, and PracticeBetter have been the three most commonly referenced software. So we will be working on integrating Xamarin Pro into these other systems. Long-term play with the EHR is you should be able to enter any supplement name and we'll automatically give you a quick overview, the tooltips that are all across our website and let you instantly check up safety information and other information around whatever supplement your patient or client is taking. So that is definitely, definitely on our to-do list and we will be asking our customers to figure out what software system they want us to integrate with and that's what we will be originally focusing on. William asked about working with us. William, after this webinar ends, we'll be sending you an email where you can ask us any further questions and a link to the video. For anyone who has any further questions or follow-ups, the best place to do is just reply to that email. It will come straight to me and then I will reach out to you and I will be back in a minute. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, we'll reach out accordingly based on whatever feedback there is. I do want to reiterate, Kamal and I both suffer from pretty bad Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, just a connective tissue disorder. I've had dozens of MRIs at this point, Kamal's health is so impacted that he cannot walk for more than 10 minutes at a time, so I always want to point out that we started examin' for ourselves, we had serious health issues and we really wanted to know what the evidence said and not, you know, what an influencer or someone trying to self-supply us to us said. So we take all feedback from all of our users very, very seriously. So at any time, if anything seems off, if you think we can do anything better, please contact us, sorry, please contact us and please let us know. We're always trying to be better today than yesterday, so any and all feedback is always appreciated. Sorry, there was suddenly a deluge in the chat. Let me just get through that. I'm going to go backwards. I think it's easier. Hillary and Dr. Nicole, thank you for the kind words. We're always trying to make a little bit of a positive then. So it's always nice to hear straight from someone who has experienced it. In considered health strategists, specific question on a solo professional, functional medicine health coach, I didn't see a lifetime option for us. Also, I may want to update after use for the additional options, how long before the price increases? Okay, so the point of to re-clarify the question, we are offering lifetime options for the standard and premium tiers of exam and pro until the sale ends, which is next week, Thursday. So midnight or 1159 p.m. on Thursday, next week, the sale will end. So a little bit over seven full days. The reason we don't have a lifetime option for starter is starter is meant to be something where you're just starting and you're getting going. So it's for you to get your feet wet, it's for you to figure out if the software is useful for you or not. And then the idea is that most users will use standard and premium. So that's how we haven't given starter as a lifetime option. It's not meant to be a lifetime thing. It's meant to be something you work, you start from and then eventually work your way up or decide it's not for you. I also want to reiterate, we have a 60 day money back guarantee and it is unconditional. So if you buy today and November 1st, which is under 60 days, maybe it is exactly 60 days, but let's say it is, you decide you don't want it anymore, that's fine. You email us, we will refund. We may ask you why, but we're not going to have you answer the question first. We'll refund and then we'll ask you what we could have done better. So if you're at all a little bit iffy or questionable about it, I highly recommend you go forward with it because you can easily get your money back. No questions asked if it doesn't work for you. To clarify the question, upgrade price will increase after the sale. So there's two parts to this question. We will not be offering lifetime once the sale ends. So if you want lifetime ownership, it's kind of like our thank you during this launch sale, you will have to purchase it within the next seven days. In terms of upgrade price, correct, yes. The entire idea is we're launching it now. This is a big deal. We've had a lot of supporters, so we want to give you a large discounted price as we roll it out. If you wish to upgrade within the seven days, then absolutely you'll get the same price. If not, it will be our regular price, which is obviously higher than our current sale price. The answer was, God, thank you. This is awesome. Thank you. We've again tried to build it up with clinicians the entire way and we'll continue to get feedback from our clinicians as they use exam and pro to figure out what areas that we can improve and or make your life easier. Any other questions or concerns? I'll give it another minute or two. If there's nothing, I'll wrap it up. Okay. I think I'll wrap it up. I want to thank everybody for coming to this webinar. I hope it was useful. I hope you like what you see for exam and pro. I hope you become a customer for exam and pro. Oh, I see. Sorry, question. William, that's a totally fair point. I would simply state my logic would be math, right? Like over the course of 10, 20 plus years, which you'll be able to continue to access that lifetime subscription will become a very nominal fee. I can say examine has been around for over a decade now. We have lifetime customers who purchased from us over a decade ago and they continue to receive value as we continue to build out and expand examine plus. So William, I can to be honest, empathize with you. I would position it as a long term investment. And Freda asked the question. Apologies if I got your pronounce your naming correct. You came in late. We'll at least pricing, et cetera be sent out as email again. Yes, we will send out an email later today or tomorrow with a link to the webinar so you can rewatch it and we will have a link back to examine pros. You can continue to investigate it and see if it is the right fit for you. You can also just go to examine.com. We have links to examine pros sale all over the website. So you can just click to there and that will let you get more information and purchase. We have interactive demos on the website. We kind of see how you use it. So you can also kind of experience a little bit more directly. My pleasure Freda. Okay, I think that wraps it up. I would like to again thank you everyone. Oh, sorry, one last question with Hillary is this prescription for individuals or the whole office? Hillary, this subscription is for individual usage. We do have group access. We have a dozen group customers already actually including, for example, the United States special operations command that runs the Navy seals. So Hillary, if you are interested in an office subscription, please contact us. We have different approaches and plans for that. But the examine pro premium tier will allow you to add one additional read only user like a secretary and assistant. You know, if you just need them to send out links or share the documents, they're not actually creating or editing anything. They can just access it and read it. We will be allowing you to do that in the pro program. We will be allowing you to do that in the probe premium tier. So your nurse would be able to use it as a read only user. So for example, Hillary, you'd be able to generate and create protocols and handouts. Your nurse would be able to just access them and distribute them to your respective patients or clients. They wouldn't be able to edit anything or adjust it. Thank you for the kind words, William. We are trying to as always build something that professionals like yourself find useful. I'll give it another it's 328 Eastern time. I'll give it till 330. If there's any further questions, if you don't have any, obviously you can log off. We will send you the video. Otherwise, I'll be around for the next minute or so. Happy to answer any further questions or clarifications you may have. There's one question from William. Any discount options for student clinicians? William, not right now. To be honest, our plan was to talk to the systems employing the students. We're generally not a fan of taking money from students. You already working hard enough and don't really make anything. I would recommend you talk to your shift supervisor, however your organization is set up. That would be the way to go. Lucy as a lifetime user for the standard exam and if I change my mind about practice, subscribe, can I just go back to standard version? Absolutely. Examine Pro includes Examine Plus, but if you decide Examine Pro is not for you, you can go straight back to Examine Plus. The entire point is you can try it out if you like it awesome. And if it's not for you, that's okay too. We totally understand different people have different priorities. So Lucy, yes, you can easily downgrade. I wish Zoom had a way of seeing if someone's typing a message, then I would at least know that someone's typing something and I don't want to cut them off before they get to ask their question. Okay, it is past the 330. Thank you all for coming. We will send you an email soon with a, with the recording of this webinar. And definitely if you have any questions or concerns, just reply to that email. And we would more than happy to answer. Otherwise, I hope you all have a great rest of the week and that you all become members of Examine Pro.