 subjected to subjected to Welcome to the 1999 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures. Now, 1999 is a very special year for the Royal Institution, because it's not only a millennium, it's also 200 years since the founding of the Royal Institution itself. So what better subject to talk about than time? So let me start by asking you a question. What is time? What is time? Does anyone have any suggestions? Okay, let me make it a little bit easier. What is the time? Any answers? Oh, wonderful. Okay, we had some very accurate answers for the time. So this is very weird, because we know how to measure the time, but we don't know what time is. So what do we do when we're stuck? We look for the definition in a dictionary. And here I have a dictionary definition, but I need a volunteer to read it out. Would you stand up? Your name is? Jennifer. Jennifer, could you read out in a nice, loud, clear voice the definition of time? Time is the period in which events happen. Time is the period in which events happen. Thank you very much, but we have a problem. What is the period? Jennifer, on the next page, I think you'll find definition of period. Period is the time taken for events to happen. So period is the time taken for events to happen, but time is the period in which events happen. Thank you very much, Jennifer. So to be honest, this definition is just useless. But that's not such a surprise, because time has puzzled great thinkers since the beginning of civilization. Let's just think about it. In space, we can move forwards and backwards, and we can go sideways, and we can even stand still. But we can't do any of these things in time. We just carry it along with now or now. And we can remember the past, well, bits of it, and try and guess or predict even the future. But all we really know is now. So maybe we should look at what some of the great thinkers have said about time in the past. In fact, it was St. Augustine in the fifth century, who was one of the first people to write about time. And what St. Augustine said was what then is time. If no one asks me, I know. But if I wish to explain it to one that asks, I know not. So what he's saying is he knew what time is as long as he didn't have to explain it to somebody. So basically, he didn't have any idea either. Well, in 1799, when the Royal Institution was founded, they probably would have agreed with him. But what we're going to see in these lectures is that 200 years of science have completely changed our notion of what time actually is. Now, the fact that I'm standing here one year after last year's lecturer, and I certainly feel one year older, means that whatever time is, it seems to be moving steadily forwards. But why forwards? And how steady? Well, this is the first question that we're actually going to look at. I'm going to do two crucial time experiments for which I need a volunteer. Could you come up and help me? What's your name? Felicity. Would you come over here, Felicity? We've got some very delicate apparatus here for measuring time. So Felicity, would you pick up an egg, please? Would you hold your hand up off the tray? That's it. Get the egg all right. Turn over your hand. Now, open your hand. Well done, Felicity. No, you could stay with me. So Felicity's shown something that actually we knew would happen. The egg breaks when it falls. Now, Felicity, that was the easy bit. Can you try and put this egg back together again? Of course you can't. Felicity, you cannot put the egg back together again. Not with all the king's horses and all the king's men. You cannot put this egg back. Because eggs go one way. Eggs break one way. But it's not always so obvious. If you just stay with me, Felicity, we're going to see a piece of apparatus introduced by the law of motion that are meant to predict everything in the universe. So Felicity, if you come around here, I want you to just start off what is called Newton's cradle. Just pull the ball back and just set it off. Very nice. Now, I'm going to ask you the same question as I asked with the egg. Felicity, can you make this go backwards? I want to come over here. So if we're going to do this backwards, let's try and make this run backwards. Pull the ball. Now, it looks pretty much the same. Thanks very much, Felicity. APPLAUSE And if you're not convinced, if I come over here, you can see that when we look at Newton's cradle backwards, it doesn't look strange, unlike this. So if that piece of apparatus looks the same forwards and backwards, it must mean that Newton's laws look the same forwards and backwards, and they do, and that's the problem. There's no direction of time in Newton's laws. So Sir Isaac Newton, one of our most famous scientists, didn't really have much to say about the direction of time, but we shouldn't be so hard on him. Because even as we're here today, there is no known fundamental law of motion in science that has a direction of time in it. And yet eggs break, we get order. So where is this direction of time coming from? Well, oddly enough, the story starts here in the Royal Institution 200 years ago, with the founder of the Royal Institution himself, Count Rumpford. Now, Count Rumpford was very interested in heat and motion. Well, in fact, that's not so surprising. Everybody was interested in heat and motion. It was the big topic of the time, because the world was on the dawn of the Indian War. And the Industrial Revolution was all about steam engines. We have one here. It's very simple how it works. There's some water being heated by this furnace. It creates steam. Steam passes across, pushes against some pistons. If I open this valve, you can even see the steam. You can even see the wheels start to spin around. Another whistle. So he was very interested by heat and motion. But to demonstrate what Count Rumpford himself demonstrated about the relationship between heat and motion, I actually need one of my Christmas presents. Julia's bringing on now. Okay, it's not exactly the power drill that I'm waiting for, but it's the same principle. In fact, it's the same drill that Count Rumpford used 200 years ago. The way it works is quite straightforward. There's a hand brace here. And if we turn this, it moves a spindle, which turns against the wood, and it creates friction. But I need a volunteer to help me. What do you like to come down in there? And your name is? Ben. So Ben, first job, protective goggles. So while Ben puts on his protective goggles, I'm just going to pour some ether into the top of this drill. Because it's this ether that's actually going to detect the heat. So Ben, are you feeling strong today? Right. We'll soon see. Ben, I want you to turn this handle. Which way? Clockwise. Keep turning. So what Ben's doing is turning the handle, handles moving the spindle against the wood, creating friction. Oh! APPLAUSE Thank you very much, Ben. APPLAUSE So what Ben demonstrated preceded 200 years ago by Count Rumpford was that motion and heat, they're really just different forms of energy. Actually, we know this ourselves. We rub our hands together on a cold day. That steady motion creates heat. But what's this got to do with the direction of time? Well, that had to wait another 70 years until the first glimpses of that connection emerged. And it was thanks to this man, Ludwig Boltzmann. Now, Boltzmann was a very interesting man because what he wanted to do was he wanted to connect this large-scale world of heat and motion and steam engines to the microscopic world of atoms. And at that time, atoms had just been discovered, just thought that atoms lived in everything from this brace and this steam engine to ourselves. We all contain atoms. Now, what he realised, instead of trying to find some microscopic law of motion that would replace newtons and would have a direction of time in it, he just stepped back and he decided to focus on how organised things were. And he realised that he could explain what we've seen here in terms of how organised things are. Well, let's think if he's right. When we move the brace, when Ben moved the brace round, this was a very organised motion. This brace contains lots of atoms, lots of molecules, and they're moving around in a very organised way. But then that gets converted into this random motion of the aether. As all the molecules zip around and the bung just flew out the top. So something organised got converted into something disorganised. And what he reckoned was that that was at the root of the direction of time. But in order to understand this, I need all of your help. What we're going to do is we're going to pass out cards to a small section of the audience. And these cards have a picture on them. In fact, the way that we're handing them out, a pattern will emerge. And if you hold them up, that's it, keep the cards together, put the cards together. You can see a picture of a clock. It's actually Big Ben, and it's actually saying three o'clock. Now we're going to try something that involves the rest of you. Because we're going to start some music. And while the music's playing, I want you to hand around these cards. You've got to hand them around randomly, very quickly. Just pass them onto your neighbour. If you've got to go across the aisles, do it. So let's get this going. Music, please. That's it, pass them around across the aisles. Quickly. That's it, if you've got a card, just get rid of it. That's it, if you've got a card, just get rid of it. Now if you've got a card, hold it up. You're so good at disorganising things. Look how easy this was. We just passed around these cards and in no time at all. There's a card over there, there's a card up here. They're practically throughout the whole lecture theatre. And it was easy. Okay, we don't like easy things. So what I want you to do when the music starts now, is just remember who you got the card from. And just pass it back. And let's see how easy it is to get all those cards back in that section of the audience. In the right order. Everybody ready? Music, please. That's it, keep them going. Why do you need to keep them going this way? Oh, there's one stuck up here. See if I can... Mmm. Well, you did very well, very well. But what you saw was that it wasn't easy. And if you hold up the cards, let's hold up the... Well, I certainly wouldn't buy that clock. It's very hard to organise things. But it's very easy to disorganise things. And that's what Boltzmann was telling us. That's the glimpse of the direction of time. Our notion of eggs breaking, of ourselves getting older, is to do with this flow from order to disorder. But Boltzmann didn't tell us that things can't go backwards. Let's have a look. Could I have another volunteer for these? Would you like to come down? And your name is? Jessica. Jessica. Jessica, let me just explain what you've got in front of you. There are two cylinders here. One inside the other. And in between these cylinders is sticky golden syrup. Well, it's not exactly golden syrup. It's colourless, but it's the same idea. And in here we have two lines. One line of ink that's blue, and one line of ink that's red. Now, Jessica, you've got a steady pulse? Yes? Well, right. Well, would you mind just turning this handle a couple of times? Just very slowly. There we go, slowly. That's it. Well, that looks pretty disorganised. In fact, it looks very similar to the cards. We started off with cards in one section of the audience, and they gradually got dispersed, well, actually very quickly. And they quickly got disorganised, very much like the zinc. But now, Jessica, I'm going to ask you to do the impossible. Do you think you can turn this backwards? Well, let's see if you can. What you've got to do is turn it the opposite direction twice. Once. Slowly, slowly, slowly. Oh, Jessica, that was wonderful! You did it! Thanks very much. So some things can go backwards. But they have to be prepared in a very special way. Or they have to have some outside influence. Like when we were trying to get the cards back into one section of the audience, it needed a little bit of direction. In fact, I had to be down here, organising the direction of the cards. So things naturally go from order to disorder. We use this all the time. When you walk into a room, you expect there to be some air there. You'd be really surprised if you found it all bunched up in one corner of the room. In fact, nobody's ever reported it. Maybe for obvious reasons. But Boltzmann was telling us something much more important than this. He wasn't just telling us about eggs. He was telling us something about the universe. He said, the universe as a whole goes from order to disorder. If you'd have come in a couple of minutes after we started passing around those cards, and I'd said to you, where were those cards two minutes ago? You'd have no idea. You'd have no idea if they came from a section of the audience here, or over here. Or in fact, if I'd handed them out in a disorganised way. Now that's exactly the problem facing scientists, trying to work out what happened at the beginning of the universe. Because if now we're in a moment of relative disorder, what was the order? Well, what was the ordered state that we came from? What was that original order? In other words, what was the beginning of the universe, and what was the beginning of time? What did our order look like? In fact, Boltzmann's statement about disorders even more powerful, was actually about the end of time. Because when we handed out the cards, and they're all disordered, if I'd have let them carry on being passed around, they would have remained disordered. It would have still looked disordered. Nothing much would have been happening. But if we think back to that definition of time at the beginning of the lecture, time is the period in which events happen. So if the universe, in many, many years' time, is in a state of complete disorder, all the molecules are completely disordered. There are no eggs to break, none of us, no planets. Time will have stopped. And that is thought to be one of the possible ends of the universe, and the ends of time itself. So this is all pretty depressing stuff. Things get old, eggs break, cars rust, plants die. In fact, Boltzmann thought it was very depressing as well. He committed suicide. Here's his tombstone, and there's the equation that explains everything that we've seen today. S is K log W. Order goes to disorder. So is there no good news in any of this? If everything's going to disorder, how come we're here? How come there's life on Earth? Let's think a little bit about those cards. As you are passing them around, from here I could see certain patterns emerge for just a moment, and I could see certain patterns emerge. I could see certain patterns emerge for just momentarily. There was like a T shape appeared over here, and almost like an L shape over here, and then it disappeared again. They just happened to be together, the cards. That small-scale order appearing on this rocky road down to disorder. In the same way, just shortly after the cards started being passed around, there was still some kind of residual order left over from the beginning. It's that order that gave rise to our solar system. And it's the sun which is the outside influence, which provides the energy to keep this order going. Not forever, but temporarily. Now over here, we have a splendid piece of equipment. This is called an orary. This is 200 years old. And it shows the thought that people had at the time of the clockwork universe. I have to put on these special white gloves to handle it. Now if I turn this handle, you can see the planets move around the central sun in a clockwork way. And it's this clockwork, regular structure of the solar system that gives us a possibility of measuring time. We measure time by events. Remember the definition. We measure time by events. So while we've got the direction of time determined by the flow from order to disorder, the small scale structure along the way, the order gives us a measure of time. In fact, it allows us to measure the time. And that's what man's been doing since the beginning of civilization. He's been looking at events and dividing up time into regular periods. Now in the beginning, it was very easy. Caveman had the sun. The sun appeared in the morning and went down in the evening. And you went to get up, and you went to go to bed. He also had the seasons that helped with organizing hunting. But as life got more complex, so the need to measure time more accurately arose. In fact, one of our earliest clocks was Stonehenge. It's a little bit big. You wouldn't want to carry it around on your wrist, and it's not exactly very accurate. But it's actually a form of sundial. Sundial is really quite a simple device. Sundial just consists of a plate with some markings on for the hours. And there's a pointer here. And as the sun moves across the sky, so the shadow of the pointer moves across the dial. It flows around the sun and moves around the sky. And it moves around the dial, like time itself. But what happens on a cloudy day? Sundial isn't very useful. So people started to think, what else flows like time? Instead of using heavenly bodies to measure time, what other things are around on the earth that will enable us to measure time? Things like this. This is an hourglass. I'm sure a lot of you have seen one before. And it's very simple. Sand flows in one container to another. But again, it's not exactly very accurate.  and then there's water. Well, that flows. And in fact, water clocks became very important for measuring time. And here we've got a mock-up of one. Not exactly the thing we'll go on your mantle piece. But before I show you, I want to do a demonstration, because I want to test out some of these different ways of measuring time. And for this, I need two volunteers. Would you two like to come down? What's your name? Ben. Ben. You're in charge of the hourglass, Ben. You come over here. And your name is? Dominic. Dominic. Dominic. You've only got your own head to judge time with, okay? And what we're going to do is we're going to put on a blindfold. Because what we're going to try and do is we're going to try and judge a minute. So Dominic, you tell me if this is tight enough? Yep. Yeah? Still breathe? Yes. Okay. So you stand here Dominic. And Ben, when I say now you're going to both try and judge a minute. So Dominic, you've got to count to yourself one minute. And this is supposed to be a one minute timer. So all you have to do is turn it over. But I want you to shout out when you think a minute's passed. Okay? I'm going to go over on the water clock. And this water clock has actually got a kind of primitive alarm attached to it. And it's going to tell us when the water clock thinks a minute's passed. So I've got a button here which is I have to turn on to start the flow of the water. So when I say now we all try to judge a minute. Okay? So three, two, one, now. Now while this is going, I'll just explain to you. All okay? Right? Just explain to you what's going on with the water clock. It's very simple. There's a supply of water goes through to a constant head tank which provides constant pressure and therefore constant flow of water down into this cylinder. Cylinder gradually fills up with water and there's a float in there. And the float is connected to a rod which has some markings on. And the markings move against the arrow and allow us to judge the passing of time. They used to use these water clocks to wake up the bell ringers in churches for the prayers that started before the sun came up. So they're really quite useful devices. Finished. All right. Okay. How are you getting on Dominic? I'm just coming up to a minute. Oh, you're just coming up for a minute? Okay. Well, I'm a little bit. Stop. Okay. Right. Fine. So you both finished? Well. There we go. It's poor Dominic's over here. Stuck with the blindfold. So let's take this off him. Thank you very, very much. So what we saw here were three different ways of measuring time. Probably three of the best ways of measuring time at the beginning of this millennium. And although one was much more elaborate than the others, it certainly doesn't mean it's more accurate. And so this was a problem because imagine in a town where bells are going to be wrong according to one of these clocks. In fact, likelihood is there are different clocks, of course, in different churches that are going to ring bells. So I think we can begin to imagine what that must have sounded like. In fact, it was King Charles V of France who first noticed this problem because around midday there'd be bells ringing for one hour either side and he got awful headaches and he just couldn't stand the noise. Okay, that's it. Finish. So he said, no more. I'm going to make every clock in Paris synchronized to palace time. And that is one of the first reported cases of synchronization in a town. But we also saw the problem that having things that flow like time doesn't necessarily mean that they're good clocks. In fact, it wasn't until Galileo, a 19-year-old, sitting in piece of cathedral looking up at the chandelier swinging back and forth. He was a medical student, so he decided to check it with his pulse. What he found was it really was a regular motion. And that gave him an idea. Instead of measuring time by something flowing, measure time by counting the number of swings. This led to the development of the pendulum clock. And we have one here. It's a very simple device. There's a weight which falls under gravity and it sets the pendulum swinging. And a given number of swings corresponds to a given unit of time. Now these pendulum clocks became the main clocks for hundreds of years. So that's it. It seemed to solve a problem about measuring time. But it didn't because if you were at sea, some nasty things could happen. Here I have another pendulum clock. Let's imagine that we've taken one on a ship. And we're going off, pulling out of the port. It's a very calm day, so the pendulum swing quite happily. And we get out into the open sea. Things get a little bit nastier. The wind picks up and bang. Suddenly we've lost our accurate measure of time. Why do we care if you're at sea? Who cares what time it is? But the important point is it turned out that time wasn't just important at sea for measuring. When it was, it was also important for measuring where you were. Time was the key to position. Let's have a look at this. Let's imagine we're in the middle of the Atlantic. Turns out what you need really are two measurements. You need something called latitude, which is the angle up from the equator. That's actually easy to measure because you can just look up at the pole star. But then there's longitude. And that's a completely different thing because imagine that we're somewhere on the equator. The equator's a circle. How do you tell where you are on a circle? Circle has no beginning and a circle has no end. Time was the crucial aspect here because people realized if they took an accurate clock from their home port and carried it with them, it was set to the time of their home port. When it was midday on the ship measured by the sun being directly ahead, all they'd need to do is look at their clock and look at the time difference. And knowing that the Earth rotated 15 degrees per hour, they could work out their longitude. Now it was so important, the problem of navigation at sea. In 1714, the British government fed up with all the ships that they'd lost, smashed against rocks, all the treasure that had been lost, all the lives that had been lost. Offer the prize, one million pounds in today's money to the person who could devise a clock that would be accurate to within three seconds a day. That's equivalent to 30 miles on a trip from the United Kingdom to Jamaica and back. Now this prize money remained uncollected for many, many years until this man, John Harrison, entered on the scene. Now John Harrison knew nothing about navigation. He was a woodworker from Lincolnshire, but he's obsessed with building clocks. In fact, he tried three versions of a clock to try and solve this problem. And here we have his first clock. It's actually a replica, and it's going to be shown in a TV drama of the longitude story to be shown in the new year. But we have it here for this lecture. It's really quite elaborate. It had to be to correct for all the errors of this rolling ship. But if you notice, it's still based on the design of a pendulum. In fact, his first three clocks were. And it wasn't until he realized that he should abandon the idea of the pendulum. He developed something which is actually the forerunner of the modern watch. And this is what it looked like. And it won in the prize money. In fact, when Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon, was at a cocktail party in number 10 Downing Street just after the lunar landing, he toasted Harrison for his contributions to navigation. Now back on land, things were heating up. It was the Industrial Revolution. Steam engines, industry, production, things were getting faster, people were moving around more. And they had a different set of problems that had to be solved. Here Ilya's brought on a model of the UK. And we can see on the bottom a model train. Imagine this train's going from London to Penzant. That's set it off on its journey. Whoops, gets there quite quickly. But there's a strange thing in Penzant. I mentioned before about the rotation of the Earth. So the sun will actually change its position during that journey. So midday at London is different from midday at Penzant. In fact, there's 30 minutes difference. So imagine what it must have been like getting on a train in London, turning up in Penzant and finding not only did you have the time for the journey, but there was also a different time. Here we have something that's been loaned to us from the National Railway Museum in York, which is an original chronometer, which was carried on the train. This would be used to set the station clock. The station clock would be used to set the town clock. And then everybody in the town would take their time from that. And this is the way that synchronization got carried across the country. And it meant that people could do away with timetables, as shown here, but had two times in them, local time and London time. But this problem of synchronization didn't just affect the railways. It was also very important in industry. But if you think about it, what's time got to do with industry? Imagine we've got a factory. Why do we care about time other than when people start work and when people finish work? What's that got to do with it? Well, I need some volunteers to help me show this. Maybe five of you, four of you here and somebody on the end, if you'd like to come up here and stand along the front. Welcome to the factory. We make sweets. OK? And your name is? Danny. Danny, I've got some bad news. This factory has no motor. You are the motor. You are the engine that is to drive our factory. So would you put on these gloves? That's it. Your name is? Rachel. Rachel. Very important job, Rachel. You're in charge of placing the containers on the conveyor belt. And you are? Felicity. Felicity, you've got to fill the containers. Richard. Richard, you're the top man. Just place them behind you. Tom, your quality control and packing. OK. So Danny, would you like to come around here? What we're going to do is we're going to start this conveyor belt and we're going to pack sweets. So as we start up this conveyor belt very slowly, do just start placing the containers one by one onto the conveyor belt. Just fill them up with sweets. The trouble is things got a little bit more competitive. There were more factories. So we had to produce things faster. Quickly, quickly, we've got products to deliver. Everyone's waiting for their sweets for Christmas. Keep going. How are you getting on in quality control? Badly. OK. OK, well, well done. Thanks very much. So I think we see the problem. In industry, in packaging, synchronization is actually very, very important. And synchronization needs accurate timing. In fact, what's happened as industries become more and more advanced, the need for more and more accurate timing has increased. In order for all of these components to be put, in this case, into cars, in order and quickly we need accurate timing and synchronization, even more so in high-tech industries. But what about our own time? How do we measure time? Well I use this, court swatch, and I saw that at the beginning of the lecture, many of you do as well. We use watches. And it was earlier on this century that the shift away from mechanical clocks to something almost moving back to nature occurred with the development of this, which is the quartz crystal. It's very tiny, probably hardly see it. It's the quartz crystal. What happens here is very, really quite interesting. It passes current through this crystal and it vibrates. Very much like the pendulum swinging is also an oscillation or vibration. This vibrates, but very, very quickly. And the fact that it's vibrating so quickly means that by counting a large number of oscillations, you can define a second. But there's a problem even with this. And for this, I need some jellies. Now think of these as quartz crystals. Actually, they're pretty similar. They vibrate. If I turn on this motor on this tray, you can see them vibrating. Jelly shake. That's what they do best. But if you look closely, these jellies are not vibrating or shaking in exactly the same way. In fact, that's the problem with quartz crystals. You can never get two quartz crystals that have exactly the same vibration because it depends on exactly how they were prepared. So although we've gone a little bit back to nature with this quartz crystal, isn't there something else in nature that gives us the absolute measure of time? Well there is in the atom. Now atoms are very, very small and they vibrate very, very quickly. So it's possible to use these to measure time. But this sounds like a job for physicists. So let's go and see what exactly they came up with. And here is a typical physicist. And he's the very proud owner of this, an atomic clock. Now again, it's not exactly something you'd strap on your wrist, but it's very, very accurate. The most accurate atomic clocks. If it would have been possible to set them off at the time of the dinosaurs, wouldn't have lost a second by now. Now having said this, there's something slightly strange about our definition of a second today because everybody's got atomic clocks. So just like in history, when nobody wanted to have to agree with somebody else's clock, who's got the atomic clock that defines the second? The answer is nobody. Because what is done now is an average is taken over all of the atomic clocks in all of the countries. So that is used to define the second. So there's actually no one clock in existence that measures truly what we call one second now. But why do we need to split the second? It turns out that the answer is very much related to what we saw with the ROWAs. The ROWAs needed synchronization to synchronize the trains. Well the information age has replaced the steam age. And so trains have been replaced by data. Now data travels at the speed of light. And there's nothing in the universe that travels faster than light. So you can imagine how accurate the clocks and the synchronization is needed to manage all this data. Well we're going to illustrate this precision now. Because Bippin's bringing on what is a model of a really amazing application of atomic time. This is a model of the global positioning system. It consists of 24 satellites constantly orbiting the Earth. Such that wherever you are on the Earth, you have four satellites above you. Now each of these satellites contains an atomic clock. And they're all synchronized. So if you were to measure the signals, the time signals given out by the four satellites that are nearest you. And compare the time taken for that signal to reach you from these four satellites. Very much like in the story of navigation of Harrison. You could use time to actually measure and determine your position on the Earth. And that's exactly what one of these receivers does. It picks up the signal from these atomic clocks orbiting the Earth in the satellites. Now Elyar is up on the roof. Can you hear me Elyar? I can Neil. Great. What have you got on the screen? Well I've got the GPS receiver here in my hands. And you can see on the display, it's telling me my position at the moment is 51 degrees, 30.571 minutes north of the equator, and 8 degrees, 0.564 west of Greenwich. Can you show us how many satellites? Yes, I've got other screens on here which also show us where we are. You see it's got a map of the world built in. So it's telling us we're somewhere near Westminster. And this screen tells us we're picking up signals from six satellites. Now Elyar, can you move across the roof so we can actually see the change? And this change is going to be very small, but the change in the readings on the receiver. Let's try that. Yes Neil, I think you can see quite clearly that the upper display is now saying 0.5 79 degrees north before it was 0.570. So only that tiny movement across the roof, this is picked up. Well that's wonderful. Thank you very much Elyar. In fact, this positioning, this ability to detect position on the earth has an enormous number of applications. You may have seen some of the applications discussed for motorists, but also applications for sight disabled people. And even probably for some more surprising customers, sheep are big purchases of GPS systems. Well in fact, not the sheep themselves of course, but the farmer who has to look after them. Because imagine we're up in the hills, raining, lots of sheep, they're all over the place. You don't really want to be out looking where they are. And your dog refuses to go. So just strap one of these receivers to one of the backs of the sheep. Sit at home, cup of tea. And you monitor the position of the sheep. So what have we seen today? We've seen that time is really something strange. For us, we perceive it going forwards, but we're not necessarily very good clocks for measuring its passing. That's why we've had to create machines to do that for us. And that story of the machines to measure time is almost like a mini history of civilization itself. And by being able to subdivide time into minutes and seconds, minutes and seconds now mean something to us rather than just kind of passing through. We can actually do something with those small divisions of time. We've also seen that time is actually something very physical. Time doesn't mean much unless you say how you're going to measure it. That's why we still say three o'clock because we say three of the clock. We're specifying the machine that we use to measure and detect time. So is that it? We've actually done it. We've actually conquered time. We've got accurate clocks. We've got a synchronized world. Problem solved. Wrong. Because at the beginning of this century, there was a bombshell. Scientists were looking at the movements of the planets. And most of them moved exactly as predicted by Newton's laws, those same laws that we demonstrated with Newton's cradle, except for Mercury. Now Mercury always seemed to be doing something it shouldn't be doing according to the prediction of Newton's laws. There were very tiny time differences between the prediction of Newton's laws and what actually was seen. And so people thought this must be a problem with the measurement of time, or maybe the measurement of distance. But it turned out that it was a problem with time itself. Now I have a problem with time itself because I've run out. And in the next lecture, I'll tell you more about this. Thank you. If you'd like a copy of the booklet that accompanies this year's lectures, please send a check or postal order for £4.95, made payable to BBC Education, to Arrows of Time, PO Box 7, London, W128UD, credit card orders by telephone on 0990 100 789. Thank you. Thank you.