 subjected to subjected to you Welcome to the 1999 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures We may think that was a very strange way of starting a lecture but that was an oscillation and these are waves you're familiar with these from the beach and they're a lot of fun and this is what the lecture is all about waves, oscillations and how do they connect with time and we're going to see that there's waves that actually carry information about time across space and we're also going to see how looking at light waves we learn something revolutionary about time itself so let's get going let's think about an oscillation well you saw one that was me on the bungee rope here's another one just swinging pendulum swings very regularly that's why we use it for a clock we count the swings, that gives us a measure of time but oscillations come in various forms here's another one okay it's not the same oscillation but it's doing the same thing, it's just repeating something over and over again like that swinging pendulum so what's that got to do with waves? well here I have ball on the spring, it's got a light inside if I let it go it's bringing up and down like me on the bungee you can see the light oscillate up and down, periodic repeats itself now let's see what happens as I move this across the bench you can see it trace out a wave and over here we have the picture of that wave so oscillations carried through space produce a wave well let's have a closer look at these oscillations oscillations carried through space well let's have a closer look at these waves over here we have a wave machine a wave machine is very simple it's got a bunch of rods all stacked up next to each other every time one moves, it's neighbor moves so if I come over here and I oscillate this end rod very much like I was letting the ball oscillate we'll see what happens see what happens as a wave travels but what exactly is travelling in this wave for this I need a volunteer to help me find out would you like to come down could you come over here please your name is? phase, would you hold this ball please and put it in the cup on this rod that's great, and go and stand at the end please now phase I'd like you to knock this ball off without actually coming over here that's wonderful thank you very much you can get out to see what phase has showed is that energy is the thing that's carried by a wave because by putting energy into an oscillation here and let it be carried on by the wave he can actually knock the ball off none of the rods travel, we know that but let's have a look at what happens when a wave hits a brick wall and then we'll see what happens when a wave hits a brick wall what I'm going to do is lock off this end rod and this acts like a wall because this rod can't move it's like a brick wall I'm going to come over here I'm going to send that wave down again and we're going to see what happens I'm just oscillating my hand up and down, producing this wave that travels along and ooh, it stopped travelling in fact, it looks like it's standing still in fact, this is called a standing wave because what's happened is waves travel down, being reflected back and produce this standing wave pattern now this is kind of interesting because this is telling us that there's a wall without actually having to walk over there and feel it so we're getting information from this wave so waves also carry information but I don't know how far away this wall is but maybe I could find out if instead of sending a long, slow wave I put a bit more energy into it and I sent a pulse see now it's a bit more interesting because now if I timed how long it took that pulse to get down to the wall and back and I knew the speed of the wave well, speed is distance per unit time 50 miles an hour, 50 miles per hour I'd work out the distance to the wall and I'd never actually have to walk over there and measure it so this is quite nice because you can get, using waves you can get information about distance by measuring time and that's such a good idea you think somebody should have thought of it before well, nature as often happens in science has thought of it before because there's a bunch of animals that actually use this to work out where they are, they want to avoid walls and they want to find food and quite often one of the animals you think about is doing this, sending pulses of waves to find out where they are and so bats use what we call echo which is exactly what we've seen here it's echo location so this sounds marvellous I think we ought to take a look at a bat see exactly what it does so I'm going to call on Mrs Jenny Clark from the Sussex Bat hospital who has a bat with her thank you for coming on Jenny what is your bat? this is Ador Benton he's a water bat, a medium size bat and he is now fit, happy and healthy but he came into the hospital seven years ago with a broken leg and a hole in his wing he's now very well but he can't fly properly which is why he hasn't been released into the wild he'll use echo locations to actually find food and find out where he is but we can't actually hear that sound very clearly because it's out of our hearing range it's too high in frequency too many oscillations per second well we actually have here a machine that may help us do that because what it does is it slows down time actually slows down the sound from the bat so I just want to show you, give a quick demonstration of what things sound like when they're slowed down we'll think we know what keys sound like let's see what a key slowed down sounds like a little bit different so let's see what your bat is telling us it's quite wonderful but that's like a chirping sound almost like a bird we actually couldn't hear anything when Jenny bought him on that's wonderful well thank you very much Jenny it's a pleasure and please take care of the bat thank you well this is such a wonderful thing that bats do do you think well can't we actually use that for something ourselves and well yes ultrasound and sending pulses of sound and getting reflection and getting information about space and about nature is something that's done and you may be familiar with this from pictures of unborn babies but actually medicine has moved on much further than that and just as you saw with the wave machine when I had to make very quick oscillations to send a very short pulse to actually be able to distinguish the length of time taken for that pulse to come back and therefore the distance to that wall if you're going to look at very very small distances inside the body you're going to need very very short pulses I'm very pleased that we've been able to get especially for this show Dr. Dan Rheinstein from Cornell University who's an eye surgeon who uses these techniques during surgery on the eye Dan Thank you very much for coming all this way Dan what have you brought on? Well we've brought here this is a laboratory tool but believe it or not we use it on patients and what it is is an ultrasound scanner that works at very high frequencies so the pulses are incredibly short and they allow us to measure tiny structures within the eye and Dan is there something you could demonstrate with this now? to show us the technique? Well we could demonstrate your eye if you like I think I'd like to see it work first have you got something else you can demonstrate? Well I was just joking we did think of something we thought that actually these sugar coated chocolate beans resemble an eye or at least the very very front of an eye so what we're going to do is we're going to try and do that and we're going to bring up a bowl with water because that helps the pulses pass through That's right we use the water to transmit the pulses to the bean and back Well let's see your bean in action Dan That's right thank you very much so let's see what we're going to look at here is this is a trace with nothing in front of the transducer but if I take a bean and we put it down in front of the transducer we put it into the water here we go and bean goes there and we're going to find it now put it in range there we go so now we have an echo you see on the screen there an echo coming directly from the bean very much like we had the pulse reflecting from the wall exactly the same but on a very small scale what I'm going to do this is a stationary pulse and what I'm going to do is I'm going to move the transducer in an arc and what this is going to do is it's basically going to scan the bean now that's giving us an image on the screen of the surface of the bean and if we freeze that that's the image the image is over here on the left and what we can do is save that and we will quit out of this program and measure things because what was of particular interest to us I think was to know just how thick the sugar coating is this was the big question to buy sugarcoated chocolate beans and really you have to do this before you eat them because in these calorie conscious days so there's the surface of the bean and we're now going to place the cursor out here and we're going to select an area to measure from like this and there we go and we get a trace now the trace here's the big echo that's the loudest one, it comes from the front surface and the second one is there and that comes 72 microns so 72 microns that's 72 millionths of a meter that's right, it's not very many calories right and so how does this help you Dan with eye surgery because presumably you don't spend your day well unless the patient has eaten a bean measuring a bean but in general what we do is we use this to look at the structures of the eye and I think we have a model over here which I will show and just place this here you see this is a plastic model of the eye the eye is like a camera and there's a film at the back and there's some lenses at the front and what we're interested in of course for eye surgery to correct vision so that we don't need glasses this is a new thing that we're doing with lasers is the cornea which is the front lens of the eye as you can see this front section of the eye can be scanned by our scanner to give an ultrasonic image of the very detailed small structures within the eye I think this is an oldish model because you can't actually see any of the features really of the front layers so this must be quite new yes, actually yes it's only been we've only measured this a few years ago and until then it was thought that the individual layers of the cornea were not important to measure we now know that they're extremely important that's very interesting how does this help you during the surgery right, well we have a little footage of the way that we scan patients before we start and you'll see here this is taken actually in pitch darkness so we're using an infrared camera and as you see we've got a patient lying under the water bath and the scanner is moving across the eye and taking different cross sections now after we've done this we make particular measurements and we use a laser you can hear it that's the laser pulsing and taking very very small amounts of tissue from the cornea to reshape it re-contour it and this is helping you actually improve the safety and precision of the surgery well exactly, in fact I've got a couple of images here to show that these are two this is the same cornea but this is the scan taken before surgery and this is the scan taken after surgery and you can see that at the level at which the laser was acting there is now an extra third line within the substance of the cornea and the distances from the front to that line and others are being used now to improve what is already a very accurate procedure into an even better surgery and the key to this was time because it was time short time pulses of sound that help you guide the surgery which uses short time pulses of laser light well thank you very much Dan for sharing this fact thank you applause applause applause so we've seen bats are very good at detecting times and there are machines that are very good at detecting times but how good are we at detecting the passing of time a volunteer please could you step down the blue sweater that's it could you come over here and your name is? Guy do you feel faster there you guy pretty fast yeah good we're going to check that out ok what's going to happen guy is I have a pad here that starts off a clock and you'll see these numbers flash in front of you and when you see them start to flash I want you to press this pad ok but obviously I'm not going to tell you when I start are you ready 82 well Guy these are actually the second rates of a second so it's actually quite good because it's 0.82 seconds best of three best of three ok oh it's 0.23 seconds last one 0.18 seconds well done Guy thank you very much applause applause applause so it's 0.18 seconds that's quite fast but actually that's not the fastest time that the body can actually detect because it turns out that while we're pretty good as Guy was at measuring the passing of time we're even better at measuring time differences a volunteer please could you come down black shirt could you come and sit on this store and face over towards me now I have some very sophisticated time difference measuring equipment but you need to be blindfolded so should we take off your glasses right is that tight enough can you see anything ok you can use your hands just steady this stethoscope into your ears is that comfortable so what we have here I'm sorry your name was Sam so Sam has attached to his ears this plastic tube plastic tube just full of air point is I'm going to tap it in the middle and since sounds actually going to travel along the two arms and I'm tapping in the middle then Sam's actually going to hear the sound arrive in his ears at the same time I think I need a pen for this so Sam this should be roughly the middle just tell me if this sounds like sounds arriving at the same time yep that's right great now Sam I'm actually going to tap away from the middle and I want you to hold up your hand the side that you think the sound is arriving first ok so that was the middle ah ok let's try it again this is the middle that's great ok Sam you can take the ear pieces out you can take the blind fold off I'm well done because actually what we've measured here this is distance but just by knowing the speed of sound of course we can convert distance into time if I turn this round you can see it better this was the middle and this short distance which was the distance where Sam could actually tell the difference between something arriving it is right here and he's left here it's actually 0.2 milliseconds thank you very much Sam thank you remember the earlier test came out to be 0.2 seconds this is 0.2 milliseconds that's a thousandth so we're really quite good at detecting time differences in air because we're built to work in air there's a problem if we're underwater because sound travels faster in water so the sound differences arrive at our ears well much quicker and this is the problem that divers face they're underwater they hear a boat above but they can't distinguish where the boat's coming from we use this time difference to actually locate objects that's why sometimes in films you see divers stare up at the surface because they can't tell where the boat's coming from so we're really sensitive to time differences but there's another aspect of waves and pulses that we're also sensitive to sound and music let's investigate this a little bit further now here I have a tuning fork you know about this because this is what you use to tune instruments so I just strike it it emits a note it doesn't sound much like an instrument I hear a flute same note didn't sound the same though did it saxophone again, same note didn't sound the same so what's going on if it's the same note it means it's got the same number of oscillations up and down but why isn't it sounding the same? well, actually the shape of the wave is different instead of being a smooth wave as it is for this tuning fork turns out by changing the shape of the wave you actually give the character to the note but it's not as simple as that and we're going to take a look at what else makes music, music for this I need a volunteer who can play the violin? could you come down? actually this is Luisa, who I know can play the violin hello Luisa here is violin could you stand here just face over would you like to have a little practice while I cut my saxophone horn play a tune if you fancy okay, well we should get on with the business in hand because Luisa, we're going to test out what it is about musical instruments that makes us tell what's going on, which instrument is which and we need Elia's help here so just stand behind you and I want you to play a continuous note nice strong note high note one, two, three, four wonderful now I'll do the same on the saxophone one, two, three, four and what we've done is we've recorded these two notes on the computer and here's the wave shown as a function of time so Elia, could we just hear those two notes? four that's the violin and now the saxophone now what Elia's going to do he's actually going to remove the first few fractions of a second from each of these notes and now we're going to hear what they sound like now you see it's not so obvious which instrument is which thank you very much, Luisa what we've demonstrated is that the shape of the wave isn't the whole story that a lot of the character that we hear from musical instruments is actually coming from a tiny fraction of a second the attack on the note now now we've been talking a lot about sound sounds pretty fast but light is much much faster if we can do all those kind of things with sound what can we do with light? well think I need a volunteer to help me understand and help us understand what light has to offer would you mind coming up? and your name is? James and I need another volunteer please your name is? Nick now Nick, I'd like you to come and stand over here and James you stand there now Nick, I want you to face the audience turn around and face the audience don't turn around until I tell you okay? James, what I'd like you to do just stand here what I'd like you to do is follow exactly what I'm doing okay? just carry on doing what you're doing as I go over and talk to Nick now Nick stand over here I'm going to turn you around and you're going to see a white screen don't be s-  skip, turn around. Now what I want you to do is I want you to tell me what you see James doing when I lift the screen. Okay? Here we go. What did you see? What did you see? I'm putting his arms up in the air. Have a look. Keep looking. Keep looking. Still got his arms up in the air? Okay. Well, now I'm going to show you just a little bit more quickly what's going on. With more frequency, I'm going to actually lift this screen up. What do you see? Yeah, he's beginning to wave his arms around. Actually, this is what he's doing. Thank you very much, both of you. So what we've seen is that more frequency gives you more information. That's what light does for you. Let me just show you what's going on in terms of the waves that we saw at the beginning of the program. Here I have a generator of waves. It actually generates oscillations, but if we stretch out the oscillations in time, we see a wave. That's what we've seen. If I have the frequency very low, you see you don't really see much of a wave. It's a very slow wave, very slow oscillation. So if you are trying to find out something about nature, some object that was this big, you haven't got much of a wave to actually do it with. You really want to build a pulse. Remember back to the wave machine, I need to build a pulse, send it down to the object, get it back, measure the time, measure the distance, get some information about the object. But if I turn the frequency up, you see what happens. So I'm just turning the frequency, making the oscillations quicker and quicker, more and more oscillations per second. You see more of the wave appear. In fact, the wave has many more oscillations in this tiny window. That's great for building pulses. That's great for finding out things, for finding information about things that we can't normally see, that we can't normally access. And to show us how this can be useful, I'm very pleased to welcome John Bola from Oxford Lasers. He's actually going to show us how they use lasers and pulses of lasers to actually find out things about nature. Hello John. Thank you for bringing on your equipment. And what exactly is this equipment? OK. What we have here is a combination of a high speed video camera. This camera is able to take 500 frames per second, which is approximately ten times faster than the normal sort of video camcorders that we use. Yes. And then in combination with that, we're going to use a laser light source, which in fact is a pulsed laser light source. So we will pulse each pulse from the laser to work with the camera, sorry. And how quick are these pulses, John? Each pulse is a microsecond. It's a microsecond. A microsecond is a millionth of a second. So what can we do with this? OK. What we're going to do is, in this case, we've got a water spray here. And what I'm going to ask you to do is to squeeze it. It's a sort of a household spray that we use for cleaning the house. And I'm going to try and image the spray coming out of the nozzle at 500 frames per second. So hopefully we can see something going on with the spray, which we wouldn't normally see. The important point is, the pulses here are much, much quicker than that. That's right. So normally, if you were to use a continuous light source from, say, a lamp, the spray coming out of the nozzle would actually blur and you wouldn't see what was going on. Whereas in this case, we can actually freeze the motion of the spray coming out of the nozzle. That's great. So we're getting more information. So let's just try this. OK. So I turned the laser on. Now, unfortunately, the laser's invisible to your eye. It's only able to be seen by the camera, which is more sensitive than our eye to this particular wavelength of light. So if you squirt, and again, go... That's it. That's good. And then I can play that back from the memory in the camera. Now I'm playing it at a much slower rate than we'd normally see. And we need to get to the point where we actually see something. There it is. And now you can see all the individual droplets as they're actually forming out of the nozzle. Because this is something we wouldn't normally see, of course. Exactly. And I can play that really slowly. And you can see each of the individual droplets as they're forming out of the nozzle of the spray gun. So this must have an enormous number of applications. The main application we work with is in the manufacture of fuel injectors for car engines. There's a lot of work going on in reducing emissions. And the size of these droplets is very important in the amount of emissions that come out of car engines. The smaller, the better. And then you can make the cars much cleaner for the environment. Well, that's very interesting, John. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. I'm going to try and use the clipboard. So what we've seen is a camera recording laser pulses in time. But actually, people have turned that around. And they've actually started, for our own entertainment, using arrays of cameras in space, taking photos at a given moment in time. And let's have a look what that comes out as. This is the arrangement of cameras in space. And they're all set to take the same moment. At the same moment, they'll take a photo of an object, but from a different angle. So the cameras are set up. And that's the effect. I think it would agree. It's quite remarkable. So we've said a lot about light. It turns out that light's actually only one of the waves in the same spectrum, the electromagnetic spectrum. Well, what else is in that spectrum? I have here a model which shows us. Here we have light in the center. This is frequency going along here, number of oscillations per second. As we go up in frequency, we get ultraviolet. Well, that's what makes us go brown, or in my case, red in the sun. And if I go up further in frequency, we see x-rays, very high frequency, very short pulses, can see things within the body. Little further, we have cosmic rays and gamma rays. If I go down in frequency, we have infrared, which actually we know as heat, and radio waves. They're also television waves, waves from mobile phones. They're all part of the same spectrum. They're all the same waves. They all travel at the same speed. And that speed is the speed of light. That speed's very special. I'll tell you a bit about that in a moment. But first of all, we're going to have a go at measuring the speed of light. Now I need a volunteer to help me. Could you come up, please? And your name is? Helen. Helen. Could you come and stand here, Helen, while they bring on the speed of light measuring equipment? Does it just stand out the way? Helen, just come around this side. Because, Helen, you're going to be data collect. This is the data we need. We need the wavelength and the frequency of the light. Because we need to multiply these two together. Are you good at multiplying, Helen? Not too bad. Not too bad, OK. We've always got the calculator here. That will give the speed. OK. So let's start measuring the wavelength. What do we need to measure the wavelength of light? A microwave and a dish of marshmallows. And here they are arranged in a line. And we're going to bung them in the microwave and cook them. OK. So let's just close the door. Now don't try this at home. Now what's going to happen to these marshmallows? They're going to cook. But they're actually not going to cook evenly. Microwave ovens, particularly if you've turned off the rotating table, don't cook evenly. And what happens is, if you remember back to the wave machine, when there was a wall and we sent a wave against the wall, we set up a standing wave, a wave that didn't move anywhere. It just stood still. Well, that's our key for measuring the wavelength. Because in the points where the wave is actually moving up and down a lot, there has a lot of energy there. And so there, the marshmallows should actually melt first. So let's have a look, Helen. Let's take out these marshmallows. And yes, we have a look at them. You see, some of them are melting. Others haven't. Then they've melted. Others haven't. And there's actually a pattern. So just like on this card here, if we take this point as the point where the marshmallows have melted and this point, it will actually give us a measure of half the wavelength. So let's do that, Helen. Let's close that door. Let's take out a tape measure. Oh, we have a ruler here. And Helen, if you'd just like to help me measure the distance, we need the separation of these two melted bits. About six. About six. OK, so that's half of the wavelength. So six centimeters. So Helen, if you could write down here, 12 centimeters as the wavelength. That's right. Just write centimeters here. That's great. Now we need the frequency. Frequencies on the back. Come and have a look with me. Come and have a look here. It says 2450 megahertz. Now megahertz is a million hertz. A million oscillations per second. So let's write down 2450. Now we need to put a million after it. So it's six zeros. That's great. Now we need to just multiply these things together. Except we should really convert this into meters, because this is oscillations per second times we'd like it to be meters. So let's turn 12 centimeters into 0.12 meters. And we've got to multiply these two numbers together. Well, let's put an equal sign here. And write down here, six zeros. So we take care of the zeros. OK. And now I want you, Helen, to multiply 0.12 by 2450. That gives 294. So let's put in some commas here, because I can never read these things with all those zeros. There we go. So what we've got is 294 million meters per second. And here we have the number that physicists use for the speed of light. And it is 300 million meters per second. So you've measured the speed of light. Thank you very much, Helen. APPLAUSE Turns out that Helen hasn't just measured the speed of light. She's measured the fastest thing in the universe. There's nothing that travels faster than the speed of light in the universe. Nothing actually can travel faster. But the story of this discovery is actually one of the greatest revolutions in science itself. And it tells us something completely revolutionary about time. It was Albert Einstein who made this discovery. This is Albert Einstein. At the beginning of this century, he was working as a patent clerk in Bern in Switzerland. Now, he was very worried about time itself. He knew that Newton's idea of time, which had been around for hundreds of years, the accepted view of time was that there was a clock in the sky, one big clock in the sky for everybody. And that was universal absolute time. But the speed of light worried him. And let's just imagine how he might have been feeling and what might have caused those worries. Let's imagine he was working away in his office, in the patent office, looking up at Bern town hall clock. And the clock has just struck four. So it's four and there are five seconds. Well, what happened, of course, we know that the speed of light is very big, but it's finite. It takes time for light to go from here to there. So it took time for this light, leaving the clock at five seconds past four, to actually get over to where Einstein was. Meanwhile, of course, the clock's ticking on. Now, Einstein asked himself the following question. Why haven't I tried to get away from this light? What happened if I rode along on a light beam? And if we look at this now, we can begin to see that there might be a problem with time itself. Because look what happens. This clock tries to chase after Einstein heading off at the speed of light. This is going the speed of light. Doesn't catch him up. So for him, time never passes to four with five seconds. Time stops. Something funny is happening with time. Actually, the way Einstein thought about it, he went back to start to think about motion. Something was going wrong with the way that he was viewing, or everybody was viewing, the movement of objects. And he thought about the following problem. If you're sitting on a train at a station, and you see alongside you another train, and you momentarily lapse the concentration, or you doze off, and you wake up, and you see this moving relative to this other train, in that split second, you don't know whether you're moving or the other train is moving. I'm sure some of you have experienced that. So what you do is you look out the other window, and you actually see the platform, the solid platform, which you definitely know isn't moving. And you think, ah, OK, now I know which train's moving. What Einstein said is, well, the universe doesn't have a platform outside. There's no absolute rest in the universe. All we can ever say is that one object moves with respect to another. But we don't know which one is actually moving. So let's go back to Einstein moving at light speed. Imagine he had a hand mirror. And this is exactly the way he thought about it. He imagined he did have a hand mirror, and he was trying to look at his image. If he was traveling along at the speed of light, well, the light waves would actually be traveling on with him. They would never have the time to leave his face, hit the mirror, come back. He would never see his image. The image would disappear. Now, for all of you in the audience watching Einstein heading off at the speed of light, of course, his image, too, would disappear. Because you would see him traveling at the speed of light. You would see the light waves traveling at the speed of light. And again, his image would disappear. So you would know that Einstein was moving at the speed of light, and you weren't. But that goes completely against our little story about the trains, that there is no way of telling absolute motion, who is moving. Now, this was a complete dilemma. And it provoked a revolutionary leap of faith on Einstein's part. Because the only way he saw out of this is to make the following statement, that the speed of light is the same value, the value we just measured, the same value for all observers. It doesn't matter if you're sitting here, you're on the bus going home, or in the starship and you're on the home, or in the starship enterprise. It's exactly the same value. If you did that experiment, you would get the same value for the speed of light. Now, that isn't the way we're used to thinking about how things move. Because if I throw you a ball, you catch it. You know if you run away fast enough from that ball, that actually it wouldn't catch up with you. But that's not how light works, according to Einstein. And actually, according to every single experiment that's been done since he made that proposal, it seems that the speed of light is the same for all observers. So let's see what the consequence of that actually is. And I need a volunteer to help me with that. Would you come up and help me? And your name is? Ruby. Ruby. Let's see what Einstein had to say for himself. Ruby, could you come and sit down on this trolley and face that direction? OK. Cross-legged. That's great. Ruby, I'm going to hand you this ball with a light inside. It's actually a light pulse. So I'm handing Ruby a light pulse. Ruby, just throw it up and down and catch it. That's it. Doesn't have to be too high. Just keep catching it. Now, we all agree. Keep going. The distance, you're doing great. We all agree the distance that this light pulse is actually traveling up and down. In fact, we can imagine that this light pulse is actually going up, hitting a mirror, traveling back down again. We all agree about the distance. We all agree about the speed of light. We just measured it. We all agree about the time it takes. And actually, that's not a bad clock. It's not so different from actually the bungee I came in on at the beginning of the program. So that's a good clock. We all agree about the time that passes on that clock. But now, Ruby, what I want you to do is to take a little bit of what I want you to do is throw that ball in the air while I pull you across the front of the desk. Marvelous. Thank you very much, Ruby. She'd like to go and sit down. APPLAUSE Something strange has happened. We saw something different from Ruby. Ruby was sitting on the trolley. She was throwing the ball up and down. The ball was traveling the same distance. Remember, that ball is a light pulse. So the light was traveling the same distance up and down, whether she was stationary or whether I was pulling her along, because the ball was going up and down in front of her. But for us, that light pulse was traveling a different distance. Instead of going up and down, you could just about see this. It was actually tracing a kind of zigzag pattern. So not only was it going up and down, it was also going along. It was traveling a larger distance. But we've just agreed, if Einstein's right, the speed of light is the same for all of us, same for Ruby, same for us. So if the speed is the same and the distance is different and speed is distance per unit time, the time must be different for Ruby and for us. Now, this is quite mind-blowing. But it could be useful. Imagine Ruby had a twin sister, exactly the same age, but she doesn't like having the same birthday, exactly the same moment. Ruby goes off in a spaceship a couple of years, comes back again. The time measured by Ruby on the spaceship is different from the time measured by her twin sister back on Earth. Ruby comes back, she's done it, she's younger. Different birthdays. Time passes differently according to how you move. This completely shatters Newton's notion of absolute time in the universe. Newton was wrong. Well, it's so bizarre that I think we should check it out and see if it actually works. But what I think we need for this is someone whose job is the head of time at Britain's National Physical Laboratory, and that's Dr. John Lavety, who's bringing on his twins. And we're going to see how we can check out Einstein's theory of relativity. Hello, John. Nice to see you. Thanks for bringing on the twins. What exactly do we have here? We've got two cesium atomic clocks. These are some of the most accurate clocks that there are in the world. And at the National Physical Laboratory, we use clocks like this to help maintain the world time system. And how accurate are these clocks, these particular ones? Well, for a clock like this to lose a second, you'd have to wait something like a million years. A million years. Now, we can't normally hang about that long. So perhaps a better way to say the same thing is the clocks keep the time to within a few billionths of a second each day. So this sounds like the kind of clock that we need to check out Einstein's theory of relativity. Sure. If you flew a clock like this halfway around the world and brought it back, you should be able to see the effects of relativity. Well, if we were to do that, of course, before, we'd have to actually make sure they are twins and synchronize them. Make sure they show exactly the same time. How would you do that, John? OK. Well, I'll get it set up now. It's a bit like the counter we saw earlier on in the lecture, going up in hundreds of a second. But now we're going to use a counter that's counting up in billions of a second. Billions of a second. All right. So you can't see... Let's come around here. You've got the time on both clocks. As far as you can see on the front panel, they agree. But you can't actually perceive billions of a second looking at those LED displays. So what we're going to look at are the electronic ticks coming out of the clock. We've got one here that's going to the counter. I'm going to plug in the other clock. And we'll see what the time difference is between their pulses. And this time difference is shown over here. OK. There we go. You can see a lot of zeros there, but that's basically saying there's roughly 700 billionths of a second difference between the two clocks. 700 billionths of a second. That's tiny. But we still need them to be exactly the same. I'm going to make some adjustments to this clock to try and bring them back into line. They've got to be identical twins. Identical twin clocks. OK. I'm going to try and put the time difference in now. So let's see what happens on the computer display. OK. We brought them back into line. That's as close as I can get it from these kind of controls, but within four to five billionths of a second, the two clocks are telling the same time. So, John, if we took one of these clocks off on a journey and brought it back, say, in the last lecture, we might be able to test Einstein's theory of relativity. Well, here are some tickets to Shanghai. OK. Thank you very much. Take your clock and let's see if Einstein was right. OK. I'll unplug and off we go. APPLAUSE So today we've seen something revolutionary about time. And tomorrow we'll see something equally revolutionary that doesn't involve flying into outer space at high speeds that happens right here on Earth. So please join me then. Thank you. APPLAUSE . . .