 subjected to subjected to Well, hello everybody, hello. My name is Mark Miodovnik. I'm a material scientist from King's College London. And I'm going to talk to you about stuff. You all made of stuff. I made of stuff. This floor is made of stuff. And it's wonderful stuff. But you think you know something about stuff, don't you? But I'm going to show you some strange stuff that perhaps you don't know so much about. The Royal Institution. Such a civilized place. A cup of tea before I start my lecture. How wonderful. And I need some sugar. Let's get some sugar stuff. Here it is. Put it in my tea. Now, look, even the cup is made of stuff. The spoon is made of stuff. Stir my cup. And the thing is about stuff is that sometimes it does things that you weren't really expecting. A spoon that melts in your tea. Not so useful maybe, but still incredible, don't you think? Now, while we're all incredible, I've got a liquid here that's incredible. And before I show it to you, I want to ask you all a favor. Did you all turn off your common sense for this lecture? I need you just to turn it off. I know your mums and dads want you to have it on for the rest of the time afterwards. But I'm going to show you some things that are so strange, so odd that it's just going to be a hindrance if you'll keep saying, oh, that doesn't make any sense. So turn off your common sense. Now, liquids and mobile phones, they don't really mix, do they? Anyone who's ever sat down at the loo with their phone in the back pocket and heard a splash knows this. Okay, so you shouldn't be doing this, should you? Right? No problem at all if you've got a strange liquid called a fluorocarbon. This stuff doesn't hurt mobile phones at all. In fact, mobile phones love it. Still working fine as you like. Now, don't you think we should put this in all the loos? Anything? That will save us all a lot of bother. So stuff really can just take you completely unawares. Here is a coffee cup set, sent to me by my aunt. I was using it for ages until I thought, there's something very odd about this. I took it into the lab and we did all sorts of tests on it. Nothing came up positive until we used the Geiger counter on it. Now, a Geiger counter detects radioactivity. Now, if I'm radioactive, this will click. Whew. It's a very strange present from your aunt, don't you think? I've been checking all her presents from then on with the Geiger counter, I can tell you. So how do we understand these strange properties of matter? And can we, once we understand them, can we use them to make even more marvelous things? Well, in order to understand that, I need to take you on a journey which is going to involve understanding about size. And we, you know, what does that mean? Well, we're sort of used to the three dimensions of space, aren't we? Sort of x, y, z, left, right, down, back, up. And you sort of think, if I know where I am in those dimensions, surely I know everything. But it turns out not to be true. It turns out that even for a whale or an ant or a teacup, you need to know how big you are if you know how things are going to happen in the world. So let me take you on a journey. We're going to be dimension travelers in these lectures. And I'm going to take you to the really big, I'm going to take you to skyscrapers. And I'm going to show you that the forces that dominate up there is gravity. And that's going to really make a big difference to huge things. And then we're going to zoom in to small things, atoms. And we're going to see that different physics dominates down there. Quantum mechanics, very strange stuff goes on. And also, despite the fact that it's very small, there's a lot of space down there. How weird is that? And the key point is going to be that at different scales different physics dominate. So even though I can stand on a tiny salt crystal, right, it isn't, it's not gravity that's keeping me stuck to it. It's the surface forces of this crystal plane. It's actually very sticky. In this lecture, what we're going to be doing is looking at animals, right? And how size affects animal behavior. In particular, why it's very useful to be small. So we're going to look at ants and we're going to see how they're super strong. And to be honest, when you're shrunk down like this, super scary. And then we're going to look at the big things, elephants, right? Wonderful, huge creatures, amazing things. But it turns out they're not actually relatively very strong. And we're going to ask the question, can they really dance? Okay, so that's going to be the journey we're going to take. Now, I've got a pet hamster called Hamish. Has anyone here got a pet at all? Have any of you got pets? You have? So let the shout out their name. What is it? You got cats? Dogs? What have you got? Dog? Crocodile? Okay, all right. Fantastic. Now, I took my pet hamster on holiday with me. I hope you all take your pets on me. I hope you all take your pets on holiday with you. So we went to Dubai and the reason we went to Dubai, it's very hot there, I wanted to get this sun, so did my hamster. And the reason we went there is because we wanted to see the tallest building in the world. This is the Burj Khalifa and it is huge. It's half a mile high and we went to the top of the Burj Khalifa and this is what happens when you look down. It is very scary, half a mile down, that's what it seems. And I have my hamster and I said to my hamster, whoa, that's a long way down. Tell you what, I'll race you to the bottom, you go this way, right, and I'll take the lift. And the funny thing is that he kind of was up for that. He was up for jumping. Now that isn't a very tenable position for a hamster, is it? Jumping off a building. Or is it? Maybe he knows something that I don't. Now if I fell from this height, I'd certainly die. But could Hamish survive? Dars size matter when it comes to falling off buildings. We really should meet Hamish, don't you think? And see what he's got to say. So come and meet Hamish, the hamster, and also his friend, the dog, Sweet. Ah, here's Hamish. Ah, hello Hamish. Sweet. Hello, what's your name? Charlotte. Charlotte and you? Alan. And you've got Sweet and Hamish. Ah, how's he doing? And how's Sweet? They're both happy, right? Okay, now, who thinks that, let's say Hamish could survive a tall, drop off a tall building? Quite a lot of you. And who thinks that they have no chance? Hamish has no chance of surviving. Who thinks that? A few of you, right, a few of you. Okay, so we're undecided in this audience, aren't we? Okay, and what about Sweet the Dog? Who thinks Sweet the Dog could survive a large fall off a building? Whoa, no one buzzed. Oh, you do? Fantastic. Brilliant. Okay, love it. Okay, great. Okay, so how would we decide this? How can we decide if this is true or not? Well, let's do an experiment, right? Now, you'll have noticed we've got this large box here in this lecture here. Now, this isn't as tall as a tall building, but it's pretty high. So if we do an experiment dropping pets, we're going to surely find out the answer to this, aren't we? Now, of course, we're not going to drop real pets. Did you think? Oh, come on. I really hope that no one at home either thinks about dropping pets. It's really cool. We'd never do that. We've got some crash test pets over here who are going to take the place of these pets, and we're going to do the experiment with these crash test pets. But later on, we're going to bring you two back on to review the results. Is that okay, Hamish? Yeah, you can watch over there. So you go back and take your seat, and you do Sweet, and we'll see what happens. All right. So this is pretty exciting. This is Andy. Andy has rigged up this thing, and it's a box, and it's going to take these crash test pets to the top of this lecture theatre. Now, what are these crash test pets? They're balloons filled with jelly, which is ballistic jelly. So it's kind of, it replicates the flesh of a, well, I mean, a bit. All right. So this is crash test dog. He's ready, isn't he? And this is a crash test hamster. Yes. Oh, he's moving all over the place. All right. They're a bit nervous. Fair enough. They're going to have a bit of a jump. Now, they're in trepid pets. So let's put crash test hamster up, and let's go for this. Now, all right. Up he goes. Now, you'll notice that they're both the same shape, right? And they're both made of the same material. So this is a fair, this is a fair comparison. Now, sometimes they don't want to jump. They get nervous when they get, you know what it's like going to the top of the tour board. They don't want to jump. And so we've got this trap door, and I press this button and hate, and crash test hamster has no choice but to drop. It's a bit of a James Bond trick, actually. Okay. Crash test hamster. Let's do a countdown for him. Shall we? Okay. Five, four, three, two, one. Whoa. Let's hear it for crash test hamster. Yes. Okay. So crash test hamster has survived as you, most of you thought. And now it is only, let's just have a look at him. How is he feeling? Yes, you're fine. Well done. Good one. He's always bringing on, he's saying. Tall or higher, bigger. Okay. Now crash test dog is looking a bit nervous now. He's got his turn next. Crash test dog, how are you feeling? Yes. All right. You're being a bit quiet. Okay. All right. Let's get crash test dog in here. How's he feeling? All right now. Crash test dog, up he goes. I've got a little kind of communication link with crash test dog. Yes, I know, I know. You'll get a bone. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Okay. Five, four, three, two, one. Oh. I think we might need an ambulance. Oh. Yeah, we might, I think we're getting the ambulance. Yeah, okay. Fine. The jelly ambulance is coming. All right. All right. So crash test dog is not looking too well from that point. So it turns out that essentially as you guys thought most of you were going to be, you were going to be looking too well from that point. So it turns out that essentially as you guys thought most of you, and it does actually matter how big you are whether you survive a fall. So what's changed? I mean, we've got the same material. One of them isn't stronger than the other one, right? It's just jelly, and they're both made of jelly. So what has changed? Well, one is bigger than the other. What does bigger mean? Well, let's think about volume. There's a funny word, isn't it, volume? Because you can't even think of it as liquids and things that you drink, but it actually just means how much space you occupy. But it is an odd thing. So let's just explore volume for a bit. And I'm going to need a volunteer for this. Okay. Yes. Would you like to volunteer there? Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Look at me. Annie. Okay. Annie. Do you want to come around here, Annie? Now, here we go. This is, this looks like some weird game, isn't it? It sort of is, in a way. I hope you're up for this. Now, we've got one sphere here which is empty, and it's twice as big as these small spheres which are full of water, colored water, right? Now, when you, when I said it's twice as big, you didn't stop me there, did you? But you probably wanted to say, tell me more. What do you mean by bigger? Right? Good thinking. So let me, I'll answer that question. It's an excellent question. So I'm talking about the width, so the diameter, right? So let me just prove that to you that these, so this is seven and a half in width, diameter, and this is 15. Right? So across there, it's double. Now, the question to you, and this is really difficult because you're under the cameras and the lights and everything, I'm going to ask you how many of these, if we had to pour into that one, just twice the diameter, would we have to pour in in order to fill this up to the top? I.e., what's the ratio of the volumes? Now, I'm going to give you two seconds to think about this. God, you've already, I'm going to ask the audience to think about this too, but not to shout out, but to do the calculation in your heads, because you all know the formula for a volume of a sphere, don't you? Right? Four over three pi r cubed. All right. So you guys do the calculation, right? And we'll do the experiment. So go on then. How many do you think? Eight. Eight? Are you sure? Yes. Oh, ho, ho. Do you think she's right? Who thinks that that is way too many? Quite a lot of you. And who thinks it's too few? And actually, it's a trick that we've only put nine here. Some of you. Nice. Would we do that? Maybe we would. All right. So let's go. Why don't you have a go? You think eight. That's one. Although, this isn't going up very fast. That's two. All right. That's three. Four. Well, it's looking good for you, isn't it? That's five. Are you getting nervous? A little bit. All right. That's six. This is seven. And here we go. Now, the question is, is it going to be eight? And are you going to be victorious? And if you are, are you going to run up the stairs shouting, A-P? Yes. Thank you. You. You. Okay. Look, thank you very much for that. And yeah, do have a seat again. Okay. So it's quite surprising. Don't you think you increase something by twice, right? The width or the diameter twice. And your volume increases by eight times. Now, crash test dog is back and he's bandaged up. He survived. Yes. That's like, I mean, the show must go on, doesn't it? How are you feeling? Oh, yeah. Not too tired. I'm not feeling oh, yeah. Not too talkative. Fair enough. Okay. So how does this all relate to crash test dog and crash test hamster? Well, they're different sizes. So how different in sizes are they? Well, crash test hamster is about five and a bit. And crash test dog is about 25 and a bit. So crash test dog is five times bigger than crash test hamster. If you do the mass in your head, you're doing up there now. That turns out that crash test dog is 100 times bigger volume than crash test hamster. 100 times. Okay. So that, that would mean, if that's true, that would mean that crash test dog is 100 times heavier than crash test hamster, right? Force of gravity on it. It's going to be 100 times heavier. So do you guys believe me on that one? Do you think that's at all believable? 100 times heavier. Well, I've got some scales here and let's just have a look at that because let's measure it. So crash test hamster, right, is about 100 grams and a crash test dog even injured with his bandage. So it's a bit unfair because he got a bit more weight. But, oh, yes, just over, over 10 kilos. So crash test dog is about, in fact, slightly more than 100 times bigger than crash test hamster. 100 times heavier. So does that, does that, does that answer our question why crash test dog had such a hard time when he hit the floor? Because it was 100 times heavier, had 100 times more force, you know, hurtling him down to the floor. Well, it's not the whole story because when you hit the floor, you can, you can, you can basically spread your weight, right, and the force of impact over a large area. So the pressure on every part of you would be reduced. Okay? So it's not just how much force you hit the floor with, it's how much you can spread it out. So that's about area, isn't it, this kind of thing called area. And so we really want to know whether crash test dog is 100 times bigger area, whether the outside of crash test dog is 100 times bigger area than crash test hamster, don't we? That's what we really want to know. So what we did earlier is we scanned in with a 3D scanner, these two animals, right, crash test animals, and we, we worked out their areas, and we've got them here. Oh, yes, look, surface area of crash test hamster is 100, and crash test, surface area of crash test dog is 2,800. So that's, that's a bit concern making now. Now, now we're starting to get worried for crash test dog in, too late, I know you're saying, but anyway, because the area over which it could spread that force has only gone up by essentially 28 times, but the weight has gone up by 100 times. And this tells you something really fundamental about making things bigger. It's, it's that the area to volume ratio changes when you get bigger. So as you get bigger, it turns out that you, your area doesn't keep up with your volume. You get more inside and you get less and less outside proportionally. And that really means that when you hit the ground, you've got less area to spread that force over. So we have an action replay, I know you've all been waiting for this action replay of the rather unfortunate accident hamster. So this is, this is crash test hamster coming down and spreads its weight over a large area and survives. We knew it survived. So it, it was okay. Now if we go to crash test dog, what happens is crash test dog comes down, tries to spread, it got 100 times more force, but it's only got 28 times more area and basically the pressure on all its extremities couldn't cope and it's split, but it's luckily it's, we could rebuild them and he seems to be on the mend. So there it is. So it turns out the reason, right, one of the reasons why it gets that easier for you to survive before when you're smaller, because you've got a lot of area and not very much volume. So your surface area to volume ratio is very high. And there's something else that helps you too, right? Because we, we, we've kind of gone on the assumption that they've hit the floor at the same speed, but, but did they? I mean, things don't always fall at the same speed and I want to just show you something about that here with this demo. I've got a snowflake and I've got a snowball, right? Well they're not really snowflakes, but they are, you know, they represent them, right? They're the same weight. They're exactly the same weight, but they won't fall or let's see, will they fall at the same speed? Okay. No, they won't. So that's interesting because basically they have the same force on them, don't they? They have the same force pushing them down, pulling them down on gravity because they've got the same weight, but this one has more area, has more air resistance. So if you think about that with regards to small hampsters, not only do, when they hit the ground, do they have more area to spread it over, right? When they're coming down, they slow down quicker because of their, again, their surface to volume ratio is really good. And we know this, right? Snow falls very gently, doesn't it? If you take the same volume of liquid and you make it into a, into a drop of rain, it hits the floor quite hard actually, hits the top of my head very hard. I can tell you that's the price you pay for being a little bit bald. But anyway, let's not go into that. Thanks for bringing it up. Okay. So, all right. So we know the rules now. The rules are falling are that surface to volume ratio is king. You really need to know this. So if I, instead of hampster was jumping off the tallest building, if it was me, right, then I could manipulate the rules maybe. So let's say I jump off the building, right? I'm falling through the air, right? And then I realized that I haven't got big enough surface to volume ratio. Doesn't that always happen after you jump? So I think, Hamish chucked me the umbrella. Thanks. Hamish chucked me on the umbrella. And now I've increased my area, right? And so I'm going to slow down. And I fall much slower. So I fall, I basically am cheating. I'm actually increasing my area artificially. And this, of course, is the essence of a parachute. So parachutes work because they change, you cheat, you change your surface to air ratio, you add a lot of area and you don't really change your weight very much or volume very much. So that's really cool. So actually when you're parachuting, what you're doing is becoming a hamster. Okay? Parachuteers don't talk about it like that. It's much more of a gung-ho sport. But that's really what's happening. So, okay, it's not just actually that it helps you jump off buildings with surface volume ratio and survive falls. It's really important in your whole life how many of you are fed up with people saying to you, oh, God, you've grown. Well, how tall are you now? And you're like, why are you obsessed with my height? You know, that kind of thing. And then people constantly measuring your height. And you're like, next time I've got a good line for you guys. You say, look, don't worry about my height. It's my surface volume ratio you should be worrying about. Okay? When I was a kid, I used to go to the swimming pool with my brothers who were all bigger than me. And I used to start shivering about 10 minutes in, freezing, cold, blue. I went blue with cold. And they were like totally fine swimming around for hours. And I always used to think, oh, my God, they're sort of stronger, tougher than me, aren't they? But actually they just had a lower surface volume ratio than me. So your area is what cools you as a person, right? So that you evaporate water off you. And it's your volume that gives you your warmth, you know, the blood and all those kind of things. So if you haven't got very much volume and you've got a lot of area, then you're going to cool down fast. And so you're going to shiver. So the bigger you get, the less cold you're going to get in swimming pools. And this is also true of babies, right? So people always dressing babies up with 10 coats and you're like, come on, don't model call them. But they've got a terrible, in a sense, surface volume ratio when it comes to cold. You really do need to put coats on them. So that's us manipulating surface volume ratio. But could we find examples of nature to manipulate in other ways? And we found one the other day when I was on holiday. I was looking at the ceiling in Dubai and this gecko was walking across the ceiling and I was thinking, how can it do that? That's really mad. And so I kind of went home and I sort of started to use a research about how geckos can stick on the ceiling. Hello, shall we, we've got a gecko with us, haven't we? Gordon gecko. He's in there, isn't he? And what kind of gecko is he? He's a toke gecko. The largest type you can get. Right. Okay. Brilliant. And he is able to walk up to the ceiling, isn't he? He is able to walk up to the ceiling. It's pretty amazing, isn't it? We've got a gecko with us up walls, everybody. Okay. So can we have a look, would he have a go at that, do you think? Yes. Is he going to be camera shy or is he going to be? Okay. That would be a bit noisy. Okay. Oh, there he goes. He looks a bit annoyed. Is he a bit annoyed? He's all right. They do have a bit of a temper on them. Right. Is it because he hasn't eaten or something? Is he, or he's been eating? No, he's all right. Okay. Because I get a bit annoyed. I mean, I sort of short that anyway. Ready? Okay. There he is. Look at that. Now how on earth does he do that? That is so brilliant. Well done. That is so amazing. Now you hang on there. It would be all right if I could just hang on there. Yeah. Amazing. Isn't it amazing? All right. So let's think about how a gecko can do this. Actually, I was thinking in my hotel room and I was having a word with Hamish the hamster and we came up with four possible explanations. I'm going to run them past you and then we're going to do a vote so you guys can run with me on this one. We thought that it may be that geckos have some sort of glue on their paws. Right. A bit like a spider squirting out glue and that's how they can walk up walls. So that is option number one for you to think about. Option number two is that they actually have nails. Wow, not nails, you know, but you know something spiky. All right. And that's how they get up these walls. Oh, is he all right? Yeah, he's fine. I'm talking about you gecko. Yeah, yes. Yes. Option number three is that and this is my favorite that they have little these kind of suckers suckers on them, you know, like stuff you put on the bathroom and things like that suckers impressed. Well, all right. And option number four, they have some sort of weird hairs on them weird kind of hairs. I we sort of run out of ideas. And we by that point. Okay, weird hairs. So let's have a vote. Who thinks it is bits of glue bit like a spider squirting out glue anyone who votes for that? Oh, no one who votes for the nails. Come on. That's quite a good idea. No. Who votes for suckers suckers. Maybe maybe I'm not giving anything away. All right. And who votes for the hairs. So in fact we're sort of equally split in this audience between hairs and suckers. Often you get to say that is it? Anyway, all right. So, Gordon, do you want to tell us how you do it? No, you don't. All right. All right. So let's see how he does it. Let's actually have a look under the microscope. So what we did is we found a microscopic image of the pores of a gecko. And we've got it over here. And look, when you actually look underneath the microscope at these pores of the of the gecko, this is really high magnification. You get this thing that looks a bit like sort of celery or kind of rhubarb. Now we zoom even further in. Yes, look, hairs, actually hairs on the end of sort of hairs. So hairs on hairs is what this gecko's pores are under the microscope. So this gecko has hairy hands. However lucrous that sounded, it is the truth. So that's really mad, isn't it? Okay, well look, before we go on, I'm just going to let Gordon go because he looks like he's kind of, yeah, he wants to have a bit of a rest, doesn't he? Can you say something about that? And say, yes. Thank you very much. Geckos climb up walls using hairy hands. Well, that hasn't told us anything, has it? I mean, that's how it works. But why does that work? And it's, you know, what's going on there? So I want to do a demo now, which is going to try and get that out. What's really going on here? And I'm going to need six. Can you believe it? I need six volunteers. And I need three boys, the strongest boys in the world, and three girls, the strongest girls in the world. Okay, so boy there, yes. And oh yeah, go on, the dog denier. And yes, that girl there, yes, go on, yes, you, yes, yes, you, yes. Okay, now, girl power versus boy power. Now what we've got here is two health and safety manuals, right? And if I sent that, so you're going to hold that rope, and you guys hold that rope, and you've got a bit of the rope. And you need to go in a line. You all, it's basically, all right, you're going to pull against each other. You ready? Now, two health and safety manuals, and all we've done with them is interleave the pages. There's no glue, there's no bolts or anything, just interleave the pages. And what I want you two groups to do is, is if you're strong enough to rip these apart, all right? And in doing so, humiliate, you guys, humiliate the boys by sort of pulling them across here. Can you guys, you know, girl power, boy power, right? Ready? Are you guys ready? Steady, go! Yes, and the girls are really holding the other boy. What's happening to this? What is happening to this? Come on, guys! Oh, I'm not ready! It's the foot, it's the foot! It's all right! Okay, okay, okay. Wow, that's a dead heat, I think. Well done, guys. Well done, guys. But also, what also won here, I think, was these books, right? Now, who, yes, I know, you're right.  and the alfinoid. Yes, they always win. I don't know. You have to get used to that. Now, look. Do you believe me that there's no glue here? Have a look at that. Okay? That's mad, isn't it? No glue, right? Just paper. No glue. So that's incredible, isn't it? It turns out that even though you guys are really strong, you would have to have two tanks pulling in opposite directions to pull this apart. Absolutely amazing, isn't it? Well, look, thanks a lot very much. Thanks. And you can go back to your seats. Thanks a lot, guys. Next time you're in a burning building, right? And you're thinking there's no way out. And you start going for the sheets and knotting them together. Don't do it. Get the telephone directories, all right? Who says yes? So look, how does that work? And how can that help us understand the gecko? Well, why is it such a strong force? Well, it turns out that what's keeping those pieces of paper together is this tiny molecular forces between the two sheets. And the forces are very small, but if you maximize them over lots of area, right? So if you can time the small force by a large area, you get a decent force. And by having every single piece of paper over each other, we actually managed to get a large area of interface there, didn't we? So can it be that the gecko is using the same idea to climb up walls? Well, what does a wall look like when it's magnified up? And here is, this is not a picture of the out, but it might be, right? This is what happens if you magnify a wall. It may look smooth to you, and you may run your finger across a wall or a surface. I think, well, that's quite smooth. But under the microscope, surfaces are very rough. They look like the mountains, right? So if you are touching something, so this is like, this is a massive me, right? This is what my thumb looks like. See, quite nicely groomed. And if I'm touching a wall and I'm trying to climb up it, I need to max, if I want to use the same force as with the book demo, I need to maximize my area of contact. So I try to do that. I'm pressing my finger in here, but you can see that actually all I ever do is I kind of just touch the tips of the mountains. And it's really very hard for me to do anything else. And so ultimately, I get very little contact with the wall in terms of area. And so I don't get any kind of help. And you know, it's also true of when you touch anything, you touch a surface, and you think you're touching it, you're mostly just touching the tips of mountains. We very rarely really touch things. But the gecko knows better, right? The gecko has hairy hands, right? So if we were to zoom in on the geckos, we've already seen that. It's got these amazing hairs. So look what the gecko does. The gecko gets onto the wall. The wall is rough, but that's no problem because the hairs get right down into the valleys, right? And you're maximizing an area of contact there. So even though there's no adhesive force in terms of glue or any kind of mechanical scratching, it's just the same force, these surface forces, which are tiny, but you maximize the area of contact and you can climb up walls. So well done, gecko, for working that one out. Because that's pretty impressive. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, you material scientists, why don't you just get on with it and make some gloves like a gecko's hand, hairy gloves, and then we can all just walk up walls and be Spider-Man, right? That's exactly what you're thinking. And well, it's not so far from the truth. So I've got here the latest sample from a lab in California, which is trying to do exactly that. It's just a prototype at the moment. And I just want to show you what it looks like under the microscope. So we go here and we look in. See, actually what they've done, they've engineered a material that is incredibly, has these like filaments. And when they're pressed against the wall, they bend and they make huge contact with that wall. And it just feels very smooth and flat. But you can just stick things onto it. It's a prototype. Okay. No, it does work, actually. There it is. Yes. So actually the future could be that we have these amazing gloves. But there is one problem with that future. And I want to show you that problem with that future with this enormous piece of blue tack. Because this stuff you know, and you're thinking blue tack, you're on. But it's actually as sophisticated as the ghetto's foot because it works in the same way. You take a small piece of blue tack, and this stuff is not sticky. It's not adhesive in it. You could infinitely reuse this stuff. It's not like a piece of cellotape, right? A sticky tape where actually after a while it just gets full of, it loses its stick. So how does that work? Well, it's the same as the ghetto's foot. It's a material that becomes liquid when you put pressure on it. And that liquid flows into the mountains, the rough mountains of this surface. And then it maximizes the area of contact, uses the same adhesive forces, these surface weaker surface forces, and sticks. You use this all the time. And it's the same as a ghetto's. So that's fantastic. And then you think, well, okay, I'm just going to go home and I'm going to just cover myself in blue tack. I know you, I know you guys. But don't do it because from what you've learned tonight, you already know there's a problem, right? Which is that although the adhesive force goes up, if your volume isn't matching that force, if your volume is going up quicker, then it's going to override it. So if you try and just stick this whole piece of blue tack and putting pressure on it, I'm doing all the adhesive stuff, but this volume is very large, isn't it? So the force downwards is too big for that adhesive force. Okay, so it's not an accident that ghetto's are small, right? Because they got low weight. And it's all about this ratio, the surface to volume ratio. So we need something even better than ghetto's in order for us to be like Spider-Man. But I think we can do it. It's just a matter of time. Okay. So, fantastic. Now look, it's not, it's, it's, it's surface to volume ratio and I will keep going on about it. But it really is absolutely crucial to your life. And no more so than this demo is going to show you. So this here, I've got a model and it's a model of my lungs. Okay. This is what my lungs look like. I'm going to put it exactly, okay. There we go. There we go. Ha-ha. Now, I'm breathing in and this is exactly what my lungs, the right size for me. So air is coming into these lungs. Now, would you believe that this is big enough? Probably not. When you're breathing in now, you're breathing in a large volume of air. So if we all breathe in now, we're all breathing stuff into this kind of structure. Now, at that moment, breathe out everyone, don't want you all fainting, at that moment you breathe in, your body has to extract all the oxygen it needs to be alive, right? So it's taking oxygen from a large volume and it has to get into the blood vessels, which is a large area. So basically it has to find a way of interfacing that large volume of air into all the blood vessels. It does this by making these tiny little sacs, these alveoli sacs. And it spreads of all ends in a kind of finagry way. And it's just like with the hamster, right? As you get smaller, these little sacs are like spheres. As they get smaller, their area in proportion to their volume gets larger and larger and larger. And that's exactly what you want. You want a large area to interface with the oxygen, right? Get the oxygen into your blood and to get the carbon dioxide out of your blood. So it's your own body is using the surface of volume ratio to actually just let you live. And I want to show you how big this area is that you need to live. Because you can't really sit here because you're seeing it as a volume, right? But if you spread all these out onto a sheet, how big would that sheet be? Well, let me show you how big that sheet would be. Okay, we've got it here. All right, now I'm going to take this up. Am I? Yes. And I'm going to let, I'm going to, basically I'm going to try and spread this sheet out. This is a piece of silk that's the same area as my lungs. Would you believe it? It's, it's just inconceivable, isn't it? That all of this area could be inside your body. And I want you to pass this around. Is that possible? Yes. It's quite a nice experience bringing my lungs, isn't it? Okay, keep going, guys. Keep going. Keep going. All right. So you guys, let go. Let it go. Let it go. My lungs, ladies and gentlemen, there's a small hole. The only way to use a small hole, that's where I used to smoke. And essentially that is what happens when you smoke. Your, your lung area gets smaller and smaller. And so you get out of breath. So if you get out of breath and you have lung disease, you get a smaller area in which to absorb oxygen. And that's, that's, that's the problem. So maximizing your area of your lungs is, is incredibly important to you. So, so this whole thing is incredible. Surface to volume ratio, right? Area to volume ratio is, is so important to you. It can help you survive jumping off a building, right? It can help geckos climb up walls. It can do all sorts of things. It's really integral to how you breathe and live. But it does something even more important than that, right? It can, it can determine whether you can dance or not. You're dancing. You're from Strictly Come Dancing, aren't you? Well, with the choreographers of the show, yes. And, and what are your names? Chris Marcus. Chris Marcus. Jacqueline Spencer. Oh, fantastic. You dance so brilliantly. I'm so envious. And in fact, I made some notes. And I, I just wanted to run these past you because I kind of, I've come up with three rules having watched you about what you need to be able to do to dance. And I'll run them past you. You don't mind. You can sort of critique them and see if I'm on the right track so that I can dance like you. All right, go ahead. All right. So one of the rules they'll do is just to be able to stand. It turns out that I mean, you're standing now. And if you couldn't do that, that would be difficult, wouldn't it? So that seems a prerequisite, doesn't it? You've got to be able to stand. And then I noticed that you kind of, you were sort of jumping from foot to foot and there was kind of jigging around and stuff like that. And that seems to me quite a lot of strength in your legs you needed. Yeah, you need to be able to kind of move your weight, weight transfer in general is very important, obviously, to dancing. Yes. Okay. So, and, and you had to kind of be strong enough to pick up your partner. That's also weight in the legs, isn't it? Yes. And it's the legs, but very often you find out the whole tall in the body. So standing up, strength, jumping. If I can do those things, I can dance. Well, yes, with a bit of breath. Well, look, I'm going to, I'm going to work on those rules for a bit now and then we're going to come back to you at the end. But before you go, I just want to get the scores. Now. Ten. Ten. Ten. Run it off! Okay. So, now look, standing. That doesn't seem too hard, does it? But is it? Is it so simple as that? So I'm back to spherical animals because I'm, you know, basically, if you ask a physicist to do anything, they'll end up starting with a sphere. And so my model for an animal is a sphere, but this time legs. That's a step forward, isn't it? Literally. Okay. So, now, I've got a spherical animal. Now, all of its weight, right, has got to go through its legs. Okay? So that means that these legs are like the pillars of a building, right? All of the force is coming through them. So the area, that cross-sectional area of those legs is what's, is what's taking all the weight through there. So if that's small, then there might not be enough. It, it, it got to be strong enough to support this whole weight. Okay? So if I take this animal, all of its weight's going through its legs and it's standing on its own feet, right? It's got four legs, fantastic. Now, what happens when I size it up, right? I scale it up and increase its width by two. So this is an animal exactly twice as big in proportions. So that means, as we know, that its volume has increased by eight times. So that means its weight has increased by eight times. But that would be fine if the area of its legs had increased by eight times. Then it would be exactly the same. But has, has the area of its legs increased? What do you think? No. No, it hasn't. Because this area, this cross-sectional area, has only got four times bigger because of this whole problem. When you size things up, the surface-to-area ratio changes. So this, every one of the legs of this animal has twice as much force running through it. And that means that it can't actually stand up, right? So the thing is, you can't just keep getting bigger as an animal and not change your design because sooner or later you will collapse under your own weight. Now, you think this is, you know, you don't think that this kind of happens, but actually this is what happens with elephants, right? Now, this is an elephant's leg of a juvenile from India. It's about six or seven years old. And you can already see, and we know this, don't we, that the ratios of the bones and the thickness of the bones have changed because this is the way out of the problem. If you change the ratios, if you make thicker legs, then you can support bigger weights. And that's what elephants do. They get their, they make their bones bigger, they make their legs bigger because they actually are in trouble if they don't do that. So, I mean, Galileo recognized this very early on and people have noticed this ever since. And in fact, if you look at elephants, you can immediately see it proportionately. They have much thicker legs and they need it. Otherwise, they start to get into trouble with their kind of ability to hold up their legs. And if you look at big, even bigger things like dinosaurs, they have really fat legs, don't they? And it's not a style choice, okay? What's the problem with having bigger, thicker legs? Surely that should make them stronger. So, we thought, well, if we're going to talk about this, let's just get the strongest person we know and ask them. And here he is. This is the strongest person I know and he is strong. Hello. So, what's your name? My name's Terry Hollands. And what are your strength credentials just so we can all? I've been England's strongest man, UK's strongest man, Britain's strongest man and the five-time finalist, the world's strongest man. So, you say that? Can you just give us a demonstration of exactly how strong you are? Yeah, sure. I lifted these weights earlier. I just thought, well, you know, as a test, I might try and see if you can lift them too. Do you think you can have a go at that? Yeah, sure. Did you see the bar bending? That bar, which is about an inch thick steel bent? Absolutely amazing. I am so impressed. So, I want to just get a feel for how much that is compared to your weight. Do you mind me asking how heavy you are? Sure, I'm 180 kilos. You're 180 kilos and what did you just lift here? I mean, this is... That's 380 kilos. 380 kilos. So, that means that you lifted a bit more than twice your own weight. Yeah. I mean, that's like a small car, isn't it? Yeah, pretty much a small car. Could you lift a small car? Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Now, so this business about you, so basically you being able to lift twice your own weight, is that... Is there anyone who can lift, let's say, five times their own weight? Maybe not five times, but some of the lighter guys, generally the bigger you are, the less number of times you can lift your own body weight, basically. The lighter guys will be lifting free, maybe three and a half times their weight, the heavier guys will be just over two. Absolutely fascinating. I'm really, really so happy that you could come on the show and thank you very much for showing us all. Right. Thank you very much. Wow. Okay, so that was very interesting there, right? If you want to be able to be strong per weight, right? If you want to be able to lift many times your own weight, well, it turns out you need to be small. And we've got the world champions at this and they turn out to be very small. And I'd like to introduce... What's your name? My name is Karen Wall. Karen Wall. I am a PhD student at Cambridge University at the moment. Oh, welcome. And I do actually study how ants are managed to carry large loads. Right, so it's ants who are the world champions at lifting many times their own weight. Now, just talk us through this. So what kind of ants are these? So these are basically leaf cutting ants, basically. This one. Look at that. It's amazing. And it's like... He's showing off, isn't he? He's showing off, yeah. He knows the cameras are on, doesn't he? Okay, well, are they going to mind if we pick them up? Are they going to get really annoyed? I mean, carried it at five. I was carrying my sofa upstairs. He might drop it, but he might be all right with it. Let's see. Some giant picked me up just to weigh me. All right. All right. Brilliant. Okay. Nice one. It doesn't look too annoyed. Still got its sofa. So now we are on 20.5 milligrams. Okay. 20.5 milligrams together. Now, can we get just the ants on his own? Is that how... Yeah. Try. He might get a bit angry there. Okay, all right. Try to get him up. They don't like leaving this fragment. If you put the fragment where he wants to it, does he get pleased? Is he going to go, oh, thanks. No, I don't think so. No, he doesn't say. Still getting angry. Okay, okay. Fair enough. All right. So put them back on the scale. It's just the ant now. So we had 20.7 beforehand. And now we have four. Yes. Four or 4.9. So that's about... He was carrying about four or five times his own weight. Yeah. Four or five times. So the equivalent of even more weights than that. And they can even do more. Like they can go up to about 10 times. And that you might have seen, he's been able to carry it whereas the weight lifter, he couldn't move anymore. Don't diss the weight lifter. He's still here. All right. Okay. So thank you very much. I mean, that's absolutely wonderful. Thank you for kind of bringing him to see us. So the reason why ants are so super strong or seem so super strong is because they're so small that they need almost no muscles in their legs to hold them up because they haven't got much volume. They haven't got much weight. So almost all their muscle is available for carrying things. And that's just true of everything. The smaller you get, the more muscle you have for carrying. So the smaller you get, the stronger you get per weight. But there's another animal that's even better than ants at doing something else. And that's jumping. And we realized that before, didn't we, that we have to jump to also be a great dancer. And so it turns out that this is also something you can do much better if you're small. Now I want to introduce you to a very special guest. My name's Tim. Yeah. Yeah. And I've got the only genuine flee circus in the UK. Wow. So are we actually going to see some fleas being brought some performers with me? First of all, we're going to have a demonstration of flea jumping. These are untethered and untrained fleas. But they won't get out this. No, hopefully not. Fingers crossed. No. We try. We don't worry guys. We checked this earlier and there's no way they can get out of here. This is like cold hits for fleas. So we're going to stick one of the fleas on top of the diving board, which is just here. Whoa. Oh, there it goes. Oh, where did it go? There it is. Look at that. How much did it jump? That's incredible. That's about 30 centimeters, I think. Wow. Look, we recorded something earlier about flea jumping. I just want to show that on this because it's really amazing to see them jumping. I think, yes, here we go. Now look at them. He's ready to jump. He's ready to jump. And then off he goes. He comes behind here somewhere. No. But that's absolutely amazing. So they can jump. How far can they jump? They can jump. These fleas are about 30 centimeters. So several hundred times their own body length. So that would be like me jumping to the top of Big Bend. Right? Absolutely. You could clear Big Bend. Clear it. So we wouldn't need stairs, lifts. Nothing. If we were fleas. Absolutely. And they basically, they're so good. They, they spend their whole time mucking about in the circus. Do they? Do they enjoy, I mean, do you have a relationship with these fleas? How do you feed them? Well, like the old flea circus owner said, I live off them and they live off me. They, they've, they've, they suck your blood. I roll at my sleeves and take my team. That's amazing, isn't it? That is love. That is love. So I'm really glad that you look after these fleas. So what, you know, on the circus performing front, what can we see? Are they up for it? The performer I brought today is Fifi, Fifi the flea and Fifi is a juggling flea. Oh, there she goes. No, that's amazing. Oh, that's amazing. Oh, oh, oh. That's it. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. It's a great, it was a great pleasure meeting you and meeting your fleas and seeing how far they can jump. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. So we talked about what, how, what you had to do to be able to, to dance. It turned out you had to be able to stand on your own feet. You had to be able to be strong enough in your legs and have quite a lot of explosive power and you had to be able to jump. And as you've seen, it basically is easier to do all of those things the smaller you get. The smaller you get, the stronger you get. The higher you can jump, the more you can climb up walls and everything. It's so incredibly great being small. But the other, the other way around is also true and, and sort of depressing, isn't it? It means the bigger you get, the higher all those things get and so the harder it's going to be to dance. So what we thought we'd do is that we'd turn me into an elephant and just to show you exactly how hard it is for a big thing like an elephant to dance. Now, oh yeah, let me give you my jacket. So made some trousers. What, what someone has done that seems just has done is they've sewed sand into these things. So not just heavy at the bottom, they're heavy all the way down and they kind of, they, they, it's so heavy that I can't actually get up. But let me just try. Okay, I'm slight, right. It's actually funny, just standing up in these is exhausting. It's so heavy, so much weight I'm having to carry and it's quite hard to move your legs. But I'm still going to give it a go at dancing because maybe even despite all these problems of being big elephants, maybe, maybe they can dance. Let's just try it, shall we? Okay. I'm going to handle it. Okay. And keep going. Okay. Yes. This one forward. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. Well, thanks very much for trying, guys. But I really think it's hopeless. Never mind. Thank you. See you in a bit. All the way to the selector. It looks like it's really great being small. And so maybe you're getting a bit depressed because you're thinking, well, I'm too big. So I want to kind to end by telling you some good things about being big. And I want to do that by bringing on Hamish the hamster and Sweep the dog because, oh, here they are. Hamish, did you enjoy the show? Yes. Yes, hello, Hamish. How are you doing? Now, the thing is that all mammals have the same kind of heart. It's designed the same way. So, Hamish has got the same kind of heart as me. So has Sweep the dog and even elephants, right? And it turns out that those hearts will only beat for a certain number of heartbeats until they give up. And do you know how many heartbeats that is? One billion. That's what you've got. One billion heartbeats. That's what Hamish has got. That's what Sweep's got, right? So, now, heartbeats. Let's listen to some heartbeats because that is not all the same, are they? It actually varies with size. So, if I listen to Hamish's heartbeats, will you, are you all right, Hamish? Let me just do that. Oh, it's so fast. It's really, really fast. And now, if I listen to Sweep's heartbeats, yeah, it's fast too. Not as fast. And my heartbeats is slower still. Yes, very great. Yes, calm. No, not really. So, that's the funny thing is that the bigger you are, the slower your heartbeats and the smaller you are, the faster your heartbeats. But if we all have the same number of heartbeats, which we do, that means that smaller things live less long, right? Because they use up their heartbeats quicker. So, Hamsters live for two years, dogs live for between 10 and 14 years, and we rather triumphantly live 70, 80, 90 years, which is a great thing to think about. So, in a way, kind of all evens up, isn't it? If you're small, you get to jump, be hugely strong, climb up walls, jump off buildings. If you're large, you get to look at all that and live a long life. So, I hope you've enjoyed this. I hope you realize that size really does matter. It matters for you. And thank you and good night.