

=== FILE: Back to the Future - Neil Johnson's 1999 Christmas Lectures 1⧸5 [N_DkgSkS_Uw].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Welcome to the 1999 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures. Now, 1999 is a very special year for the Royal Institution, because it's not only a millennium, it's also 200 years since the founding of the Royal Institution itself. So what better subject to talk about than time? So let me start by asking you a question. What is time? What is time? Does anyone have any suggestions? Okay, let me make it a little bit easier. What is the time? Any answers? Oh, wonderful. Okay, we had some very accurate answers for the time. So this is very weird, because we know how to measure the time, but we don't know what time is. So what do we do when we're stuck? We look for the definition in a dictionary. And here I have a dictionary definition, but I need a volunteer to read it out. Would you stand up? Your name is? Jennifer. Jennifer, could you read out in a nice, loud, clear voice the definition of time? Time is the period in which events happen. Time is the period in which events happen. Thank you very much, but we have a problem. What is the period? Jennifer, on the next page, I think you'll find definition of period. Period is the time taken for events to happen. So period is the time taken for events to happen, but time is the period in which events happen. Thank you very much, Jennifer. So to be honest, this definition is just useless. But that's not such a surprise, because time has puzzled great thinkers since the beginning of civilization. Let's just think about it. In space, we can move forwards and backwards, and we can go sideways, and we can even stand still. But we can't do any of these things in time. We just carry it along with now or now. And we can remember the past, well, bits of it, and try and guess or predict even the future. But all we really know is now. So maybe we should look at what some of the great thinkers have said about time in the past. In fact, it was St. Augustine in the fifth century, who was one of the first people to write about time. And what St. Augustine said was what then is time. If no one asks me, I know. But if I wish to explain it to one that asks, I know not. So what he's saying is he knew what time is as long as he didn't have to explain it to somebody. So basically, he didn't have any idea either. Well, in 1799, when the Royal Institution was founded, they probably would have agreed with him. But what we're going to see in these lectures is that 200 years of science have completely changed our notion of what time actually is. Now, the fact that I'm standing here one year after last year's lecturer, and I certainly feel one year older, means that whatever time is, it seems to be moving steadily forwards. But why forwards? And how steady? Well, this is the first question that we're actually going to look at. I'm going to do two crucial time experiments for which I need a volunteer. Could you come up and help me? What's your name? Felicity. Would you come over here, Felicity? We've got some very delicate apparatus here for measuring time. So Felicity, would you pick up an egg, please? Would you hold your hand up off the tray? That's it. Get the egg all right. Turn over your hand. Now, open your hand. Well done, Felicity. No, you could stay with me. So Felicity's shown something that actually we knew would happen. The egg breaks when it falls. Now, Felicity, that was the easy bit. Can you try and put this egg back together again? Of course you can't. Felicity, you cannot put the egg back together again. Not with all the king's horses and all the king's men. You cannot put this egg back. Because eggs go one way. Eggs break one way. But it's not always so obvious. If you just stay with me, Felicity, we're going to see a piece of apparatus introduced by the law of motion that are meant to predict everything in the universe. So Felicity, if you come around here, I want you to just start off what is called Newton's cradle. Just pull the ball back and just set it off. Very nice. Now, I'm going to ask you the same question as I asked with the egg. Felicity, can you make this go backwards? I want to come over here. So if we're going to do this backwards, let's try and make this run backwards. Pull the ball. Now, it looks pretty much the same. Thanks very much, Felicity. APPLAUSE And if you're not convinced, if I come over here, you can see that when we look at Newton's cradle backwards, it doesn't look strange, unlike this. So if that piece of apparatus looks the same forwards and backwards, it must mean that Newton's laws look the same forwards and backwards, and they do, and that's the problem. There's no direction of time in Newton's laws. So Sir Isaac Newton, one of our most famous scientists, didn't really have much to say about the direction of time, but we shouldn't be so hard on him. Because even as we're here today, there is no known fundamental law of motion in science that has a direction of time in it. And yet eggs break, we get order. So where is this direction of time coming from? Well, oddly enough, the story starts here in the Royal Institution 200 years ago, with the founder of the Royal Institution himself, Count Rumpford. Now, Count Rumpford was very interested in heat and motion. Well, in fact, that's not so surprising. Everybody was interested in heat and motion. It was the big topic of the time, because the world was on the dawn of the Indian War. And the Industrial Revolution was all about steam engines. We have one here. It's very simple how it works. There's some water being heated by this furnace. It creates steam. Steam passes across, pushes against some pistons. If I open this valve, you can even see the steam. You can even see the wheels start to spin around. Another whistle. So he was very interested by heat and motion. But to demonstrate what Count Rumpford himself demonstrated about the relationship between heat and motion, I actually need one of my Christmas presents. Julia's bringing on now. Okay, it's not exactly the power drill that I'm waiting for, but it's the same principle. In fact, it's the same drill that Count Rumpford used 200 years ago. The way it works is quite straightforward. There's a hand brace here. And if we turn this, it moves a spindle, which turns against the wood, and it creates friction. But I need a volunteer to help me. What do you like to come down in there? And your name is? Ben. So Ben, first job, protective goggles. So while Ben puts on his protective goggles, I'm just going to pour some ether into the top of this drill. Because it's this ether that's actually going to detect the heat. So Ben, are you feeling strong today? Right. We'll soon see. Ben, I want you to turn this handle. Which way? Clockwise. Keep turning. So what Ben's doing is turning the handle, handles moving the spindle against the wood, creating friction. Oh! APPLAUSE Thank you very much, Ben. APPLAUSE So what Ben demonstrated preceded 200 years ago by Count Rumpford was that motion and heat, they're really just different forms of energy. Actually, we know this ourselves. We rub our hands together on a cold day. That steady motion creates heat. But what's this got to do with the direction of time? Well, that had to wait another 70 years until the first glimpses of that connection emerged. And it was thanks to this man, Ludwig Boltzmann. Now, Boltzmann was a very interesting man because what he wanted to do was he wanted to connect this large-scale world of heat and motion and steam engines to the microscopic world of atoms. And at that time, atoms had just been discovered, just thought that atoms lived in everything from this brace and this steam engine to ourselves. We all contain atoms. Now, what he realised, instead of trying to find some microscopic law of motion that would replace newtons and would have a direction of time in it, he just stepped back and he decided to focus on how organised things were. And he realised that he could explain what we've seen here in terms of how organised things are. Well, let's think if he's right. When we move the brace, when Ben moved the brace round, this was a very organised motion. This brace contains lots of atoms, lots of molecules, and they're moving around in a very organised way. But then that gets converted into this random motion of the aether. As all the molecules zip around and the bung just flew out the top. So something organised got converted into something disorganised. And what he reckoned was that that was at the root of the direction of time. But in order to understand this, I need all of your help. What we're going to do is we're going to pass out cards to a small section of the audience. And these cards have a picture on them. In fact, the way that we're handing them out, a pattern will emerge. And if you hold them up, that's it, keep the cards together, put the cards together. You can see a picture of a clock. It's actually Big Ben, and it's actually saying three o'clock. Now we're going to try something that involves the rest of you. Because we're going to start some music. And while the music's playing, I want you to hand around these cards. You've got to hand them around randomly, very quickly. Just pass them onto your neighbour. If you've got to go across the aisles, do it. So let's get this going. Music, please. That's it, pass them around across the aisles. Quickly. That's it, if you've got a card, just get rid of it. That's it, if you've got a card, just get rid of it. Now if you've got a card, hold it up. You're so good at disorganising things. Look how easy this was. We just passed around these cards and in no time at all. There's a card over there, there's a card up here. They're practically throughout the whole lecture theatre. And it was easy. Okay, we don't like easy things. So what I want you to do when the music starts now, is just remember who you got the card from. And just pass it back. And let's see how easy it is to get all those cards back in that section of the audience. In the right order. Everybody ready? Music, please. That's it, keep them going. Why do you need to keep them going this way? Oh, there's one stuck up here. See if I can... Mmm. Well, you did very well, very well. But what you saw was that it wasn't easy. And if you hold up the cards, let's hold up the... Well, I certainly wouldn't buy that clock. It's very hard to organise things. But it's very easy to disorganise things. And that's what Boltzmann was telling us. That's the glimpse of the direction of time. Our notion of eggs breaking, of ourselves getting older, is to do with this flow from order to disorder. But Boltzmann didn't tell us that things can't go backwards. Let's have a look. Could I have another volunteer for these? Would you like to come down? And your name is? Jessica. Jessica. Jessica, let me just explain what you've got in front of you. There are two cylinders here. One inside the other. And in between these cylinders is sticky golden syrup. Well, it's not exactly golden syrup. It's colourless, but it's the same idea. And in here we have two lines. One line of ink that's blue, and one line of ink that's red. Now, Jessica, you've got a steady pulse? Yes? Well, right. Well, would you mind just turning this handle a couple of times? Just very slowly. There we go, slowly. That's it. Well, that looks pretty disorganised. In fact, it looks very similar to the cards. We started off with cards in one section of the audience, and they gradually got dispersed, well, actually very quickly. And they quickly got disorganised, very much like the zinc. But now, Jessica, I'm going to ask you to do the impossible. Do you think you can turn this backwards? Well, let's see if you can. What you've got to do is turn it the opposite direction twice. Once. Slowly, slowly, slowly. Oh, Jessica, that was wonderful! You did it! Thanks very much. So some things can go backwards. But they have to be prepared in a very special way. Or they have to have some outside influence. Like when we were trying to get the cards back into one section of the audience, it needed a little bit of direction. In fact, I had to be down here, organising the direction of the cards. So things naturally go from order to disorder. We use this all the time. When you walk into a room, you expect there to be some air there. You'd be really surprised if you found it all bunched up in one corner of the room. In fact, nobody's ever reported it. Maybe for obvious reasons. But Boltzmann was telling us something much more important than this. He wasn't just telling us about eggs. He was telling us something about the universe. He said, the universe as a whole goes from order to disorder. If you'd have come in a couple of minutes after we started passing around those cards, and I'd said to you, where were those cards two minutes ago? You'd have no idea. You'd have no idea if they came from a section of the audience here, or over here. Or in fact, if I'd handed them out in a disorganised way. Now that's exactly the problem facing scientists, trying to work out what happened at the beginning of the universe. Because if now we're in a moment of relative disorder, what was the order? Well, what was the ordered state that we came from? What was that original order? In other words, what was the beginning of the universe, and what was the beginning of time? What did our order look like? In fact, Boltzmann's statement about disorders even more powerful, was actually about the end of time. Because when we handed out the cards, and they're all disordered, if I'd have let them carry on being passed around, they would have remained disordered. It would have still looked disordered. Nothing much would have been happening. But if we think back to that definition of time at the beginning of the lecture, time is the period in which events happen. So if the universe, in many, many years' time, is in a state of complete disorder, all the molecules are completely disordered. There are no eggs to break, none of us, no planets. Time will have stopped. And that is thought to be one of the possible ends of the universe, and the ends of time itself. So this is all pretty depressing stuff. Things get old, eggs break, cars rust, plants die. In fact, Boltzmann thought it was very depressing as well. He committed suicide. Here's his tombstone, and there's the equation that explains everything that we've seen today. S is K log W. Order goes to disorder. So is there no good news in any of this? If everything's going to disorder, how come we're here? How come there's life on Earth? Let's think a little bit about those cards. As you are passing them around, from here I could see certain patterns emerge for just a moment, and I could see certain patterns emerge. I could see certain patterns emerge for just momentarily. There was like a T shape appeared over here, and almost like an L shape over here, and then it disappeared again. They just happened to be together, the cards. That small-scale order appearing on this rocky road down to disorder. In the same way, just shortly after the cards started being passed around, there was still some kind of residual order left over from the beginning. It's that order that gave rise to our solar system. And it's the sun which is the outside influence, which provides the energy to keep this order going. Not forever, but temporarily. Now over here, we have a splendid piece of equipment. This is called an orary. This is 200 years old. And it shows the thought that people had at the time of the clockwork universe. I have to put on these special white gloves to handle it. Now if I turn this handle, you can see the planets move around the central sun in a clockwork way. And it's this clockwork, regular structure of the solar system that gives us a possibility of measuring time. We measure time by events. Remember the definition. We measure time by events. So while we've got the direction of time determined by the flow from order to disorder, the small scale structure along the way, the order gives us a measure of time. In fact, it allows us to measure the time. And that's what man's been doing since the beginning of civilization. He's been looking at events and dividing up time into regular periods. Now in the beginning, it was very easy. Caveman had the sun. The sun appeared in the morning and went down in the evening. And you went to get up, and you went to go to bed. He also had the seasons that helped with organizing hunting. But as life got more complex, so the need to measure time more accurately arose. In fact, one of our earliest clocks was Stonehenge. It's a little bit big. You wouldn't want to carry it around on your wrist, and it's not exactly very accurate. But it's actually a form of sundial. Sundial is really quite a simple device. Sundial just consists of a plate with some markings on for the hours. And there's a pointer here. And as the sun moves across the sky, so the shadow of the pointer moves across the dial. It flows around the sun and moves around the sky. And it moves around the dial, like time itself. But what happens on a cloudy day? Sundial isn't very useful. So people started to think, what else flows like time? Instead of using heavenly bodies to measure time, what other things are around on the earth that will enable us to measure time? Things like this. This is an hourglass. I'm sure a lot of you have seen one before. And it's very simple. Sand flows in one container to another. But again, it's not exactly very accurate.  and then there's water. Well, that flows. And in fact, water clocks became very important for measuring time. And here we've got a mock-up of one. Not exactly the thing we'll go on your mantle piece. But before I show you, I want to do a demonstration, because I want to test out some of these different ways of measuring time. And for this, I need two volunteers. Would you two like to come down? What's your name? Ben. Ben. You're in charge of the hourglass, Ben. You come over here. And your name is? Dominic. Dominic. Dominic. You've only got your own head to judge time with, okay? And what we're going to do is we're going to put on a blindfold. Because what we're going to try and do is we're going to try and judge a minute. So Dominic, you tell me if this is tight enough? Yep. Yeah? Still breathe? Yes. Okay. So you stand here Dominic. And Ben, when I say now you're going to both try and judge a minute. So Dominic, you've got to count to yourself one minute. And this is supposed to be a one minute timer. So all you have to do is turn it over. But I want you to shout out when you think a minute's passed. Okay? I'm going to go over on the water clock. And this water clock has actually got a kind of primitive alarm attached to it. And it's going to tell us when the water clock thinks a minute's passed. So I've got a button here which is I have to turn on to start the flow of the water. So when I say now we all try to judge a minute. Okay? So three, two, one, now. Now while this is going, I'll just explain to you. All okay? Right? Just explain to you what's going on with the water clock. It's very simple. There's a supply of water goes through to a constant head tank which provides constant pressure and therefore constant flow of water down into this cylinder. Cylinder gradually fills up with water and there's a float in there. And the float is connected to a rod which has some markings on. And the markings move against the arrow and allow us to judge the passing of time. They used to use these water clocks to wake up the bell ringers in churches for the prayers that started before the sun came up. So they're really quite useful devices. Finished. All right. Okay. How are you getting on Dominic? I'm just coming up to a minute. Oh, you're just coming up for a minute? Okay. Well, I'm a little bit. Stop. Okay. Right. Fine. So you both finished? Well. There we go. It's poor Dominic's over here. Stuck with the blindfold. So let's take this off him. Thank you very, very much. So what we saw here were three different ways of measuring time. Probably three of the best ways of measuring time at the beginning of this millennium. And although one was much more elaborate than the others, it certainly doesn't mean it's more accurate. And so this was a problem because imagine in a town where bells are going to be wrong according to one of these clocks. In fact, likelihood is there are different clocks, of course, in different churches that are going to ring bells. So I think we can begin to imagine what that must have sounded like. In fact, it was King Charles V of France who first noticed this problem because around midday there'd be bells ringing for one hour either side and he got awful headaches and he just couldn't stand the noise. Okay, that's it. Finish. So he said, no more. I'm going to make every clock in Paris synchronized to palace time. And that is one of the first reported cases of synchronization in a town. But we also saw the problem that having things that flow like time doesn't necessarily mean that they're good clocks. In fact, it wasn't until Galileo, a 19-year-old, sitting in piece of cathedral looking up at the chandelier swinging back and forth. He was a medical student, so he decided to check it with his pulse. What he found was it really was a regular motion. And that gave him an idea. Instead of measuring time by something flowing, measure time by counting the number of swings. This led to the development of the pendulum clock. And we have one here. It's a very simple device. There's a weight which falls under gravity and it sets the pendulum swinging. And a given number of swings corresponds to a given unit of time. Now these pendulum clocks became the main clocks for hundreds of years. So that's it. It seemed to solve a problem about measuring time. But it didn't because if you were at sea, some nasty things could happen. Here I have another pendulum clock. Let's imagine that we've taken one on a ship. And we're going off, pulling out of the port. It's a very calm day, so the pendulum swing quite happily. And we get out into the open sea. Things get a little bit nastier. The wind picks up and bang. Suddenly we've lost our accurate measure of time. Why do we care if you're at sea? Who cares what time it is? But the important point is it turned out that time wasn't just important at sea for measuring. When it was, it was also important for measuring where you were. Time was the key to position. Let's have a look at this. Let's imagine we're in the middle of the Atlantic. Turns out what you need really are two measurements. You need something called latitude, which is the angle up from the equator. That's actually easy to measure because you can just look up at the pole star. But then there's longitude. And that's a completely different thing because imagine that we're somewhere on the equator. The equator's a circle. How do you tell where you are on a circle? Circle has no beginning and a circle has no end. Time was the crucial aspect here because people realized if they took an accurate clock from their home port and carried it with them, it was set to the time of their home port. When it was midday on the ship measured by the sun being directly ahead, all they'd need to do is look at their clock and look at the time difference. And knowing that the Earth rotated 15 degrees per hour, they could work out their longitude. Now it was so important, the problem of navigation at sea. In 1714, the British government fed up with all the ships that they'd lost, smashed against rocks, all the treasure that had been lost, all the lives that had been lost. Offer the prize, one million pounds in today's money to the person who could devise a clock that would be accurate to within three seconds a day. That's equivalent to 30 miles on a trip from the United Kingdom to Jamaica and back. Now this prize money remained uncollected for many, many years until this man, John Harrison, entered on the scene. Now John Harrison knew nothing about navigation. He was a woodworker from Lincolnshire, but he's obsessed with building clocks. In fact, he tried three versions of a clock to try and solve this problem. And here we have his first clock. It's actually a replica, and it's going to be shown in a TV drama of the longitude story to be shown in the new year. But we have it here for this lecture. It's really quite elaborate. It had to be to correct for all the errors of this rolling ship. But if you notice, it's still based on the design of a pendulum. In fact, his first three clocks were. And it wasn't until he realized that he should abandon the idea of the pendulum. He developed something which is actually the forerunner of the modern watch. And this is what it looked like. And it won in the prize money. In fact, when Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon, was at a cocktail party in number 10 Downing Street just after the lunar landing, he toasted Harrison for his contributions to navigation. Now back on land, things were heating up. It was the Industrial Revolution. Steam engines, industry, production, things were getting faster, people were moving around more. And they had a different set of problems that had to be solved. Here Ilya's brought on a model of the UK. And we can see on the bottom a model train. Imagine this train's going from London to Penzant. That's set it off on its journey. Whoops, gets there quite quickly. But there's a strange thing in Penzant. I mentioned before about the rotation of the Earth. So the sun will actually change its position during that journey. So midday at London is different from midday at Penzant. In fact, there's 30 minutes difference. So imagine what it must have been like getting on a train in London, turning up in Penzant and finding not only did you have the time for the journey, but there was also a different time. Here we have something that's been loaned to us from the National Railway Museum in York, which is an original chronometer, which was carried on the train. This would be used to set the station clock. The station clock would be used to set the town clock. And then everybody in the town would take their time from that. And this is the way that synchronization got carried across the country. And it meant that people could do away with timetables, as shown here, but had two times in them, local time and London time. But this problem of synchronization didn't just affect the railways. It was also very important in industry. But if you think about it, what's time got to do with industry? Imagine we've got a factory. Why do we care about time other than when people start work and when people finish work? What's that got to do with it? Well, I need some volunteers to help me show this. Maybe five of you, four of you here and somebody on the end, if you'd like to come up here and stand along the front. Welcome to the factory. We make sweets. OK? And your name is? Danny. Danny, I've got some bad news. This factory has no motor. You are the motor. You are the engine that is to drive our factory. So would you put on these gloves? That's it. Your name is? Rachel. Rachel. Very important job, Rachel. You're in charge of placing the containers on the conveyor belt. And you are? Felicity. Felicity, you've got to fill the containers. Richard. Richard, you're the top man. Just place them behind you. Tom, your quality control and packing. OK. So Danny, would you like to come around here? What we're going to do is we're going to start this conveyor belt and we're going to pack sweets. So as we start up this conveyor belt very slowly, do just start placing the containers one by one onto the conveyor belt. Just fill them up with sweets. The trouble is things got a little bit more competitive. There were more factories. So we had to produce things faster. Quickly, quickly, we've got products to deliver. Everyone's waiting for their sweets for Christmas. Keep going. How are you getting on in quality control? Badly. OK. OK, well, well done. Thanks very much. So I think we see the problem. In industry, in packaging, synchronization is actually very, very important. And synchronization needs accurate timing. In fact, what's happened as industries become more and more advanced, the need for more and more accurate timing has increased. In order for all of these components to be put, in this case, into cars, in order and quickly we need accurate timing and synchronization, even more so in high-tech industries. But what about our own time? How do we measure time? Well I use this, court swatch, and I saw that at the beginning of the lecture, many of you do as well. We use watches. And it was earlier on this century that the shift away from mechanical clocks to something almost moving back to nature occurred with the development of this, which is the quartz crystal. It's very tiny, probably hardly see it. It's the quartz crystal. What happens here is very, really quite interesting. It passes current through this crystal and it vibrates. Very much like the pendulum swinging is also an oscillation or vibration. This vibrates, but very, very quickly. And the fact that it's vibrating so quickly means that by counting a large number of oscillations, you can define a second. But there's a problem even with this. And for this, I need some jellies. Now think of these as quartz crystals. Actually, they're pretty similar. They vibrate. If I turn on this motor on this tray, you can see them vibrating. Jelly shake. That's what they do best. But if you look closely, these jellies are not vibrating or shaking in exactly the same way. In fact, that's the problem with quartz crystals. You can never get two quartz crystals that have exactly the same vibration because it depends on exactly how they were prepared. So although we've gone a little bit back to nature with this quartz crystal, isn't there something else in nature that gives us the absolute measure of time? Well there is in the atom. Now atoms are very, very small and they vibrate very, very quickly. So it's possible to use these to measure time. But this sounds like a job for physicists. So let's go and see what exactly they came up with. And here is a typical physicist. And he's the very proud owner of this, an atomic clock. Now again, it's not exactly something you'd strap on your wrist, but it's very, very accurate. The most accurate atomic clocks. If it would have been possible to set them off at the time of the dinosaurs, wouldn't have lost a second by now. Now having said this, there's something slightly strange about our definition of a second today because everybody's got atomic clocks. So just like in history, when nobody wanted to have to agree with somebody else's clock, who's got the atomic clock that defines the second? The answer is nobody. Because what is done now is an average is taken over all of the atomic clocks in all of the countries. So that is used to define the second. So there's actually no one clock in existence that measures truly what we call one second now. But why do we need to split the second? It turns out that the answer is very much related to what we saw with the ROWAs. The ROWAs needed synchronization to synchronize the trains. Well the information age has replaced the steam age. And so trains have been replaced by data. Now data travels at the speed of light. And there's nothing in the universe that travels faster than light. So you can imagine how accurate the clocks and the synchronization is needed to manage all this data. Well we're going to illustrate this precision now. Because Bippin's bringing on what is a model of a really amazing application of atomic time. This is a model of the global positioning system. It consists of 24 satellites constantly orbiting the Earth. Such that wherever you are on the Earth, you have four satellites above you. Now each of these satellites contains an atomic clock. And they're all synchronized. So if you were to measure the signals, the time signals given out by the four satellites that are nearest you. And compare the time taken for that signal to reach you from these four satellites. Very much like in the story of navigation of Harrison. You could use time to actually measure and determine your position on the Earth. And that's exactly what one of these receivers does. It picks up the signal from these atomic clocks orbiting the Earth in the satellites. Now Elyar is up on the roof. Can you hear me Elyar? I can Neil. Great. What have you got on the screen? Well I've got the GPS receiver here in my hands. And you can see on the display, it's telling me my position at the moment is 51 degrees, 30.571 minutes north of the equator, and 8 degrees, 0.564 west of Greenwich. Can you show us how many satellites? Yes, I've got other screens on here which also show us where we are. You see it's got a map of the world built in. So it's telling us we're somewhere near Westminster. And this screen tells us we're picking up signals from six satellites. Now Elyar, can you move across the roof so we can actually see the change? And this change is going to be very small, but the change in the readings on the receiver. Let's try that. Yes Neil, I think you can see quite clearly that the upper display is now saying 0.5 79 degrees north before it was 0.570. So only that tiny movement across the roof, this is picked up. Well that's wonderful. Thank you very much Elyar. In fact, this positioning, this ability to detect position on the earth has an enormous number of applications. You may have seen some of the applications discussed for motorists, but also applications for sight disabled people. And even probably for some more surprising customers, sheep are big purchases of GPS systems. Well in fact, not the sheep themselves of course, but the farmer who has to look after them. Because imagine we're up in the hills, raining, lots of sheep, they're all over the place. You don't really want to be out looking where they are. And your dog refuses to go. So just strap one of these receivers to one of the backs of the sheep. Sit at home, cup of tea. And you monitor the position of the sheep. So what have we seen today? We've seen that time is really something strange. For us, we perceive it going forwards, but we're not necessarily very good clocks for measuring its passing. That's why we've had to create machines to do that for us. And that story of the machines to measure time is almost like a mini history of civilization itself. And by being able to subdivide time into minutes and seconds, minutes and seconds now mean something to us rather than just kind of passing through. We can actually do something with those small divisions of time. We've also seen that time is actually something very physical. Time doesn't mean much unless you say how you're going to measure it. That's why we still say three o'clock because we say three of the clock. We're specifying the machine that we use to measure and detect time. So is that it? We've actually done it. We've actually conquered time. We've got accurate clocks. We've got a synchronized world. Problem solved. Wrong. Because at the beginning of this century, there was a bombshell. Scientists were looking at the movements of the planets. And most of them moved exactly as predicted by Newton's laws, those same laws that we demonstrated with Newton's cradle, except for Mercury. Now Mercury always seemed to be doing something it shouldn't be doing according to the prediction of Newton's laws. There were very tiny time differences between the prediction of Newton's laws and what actually was seen. And so people thought this must be a problem with the measurement of time, or maybe the measurement of distance. But it turned out that it was a problem with time itself. Now I have a problem with time itself because I've run out. And in the next lecture, I'll tell you more about this. Thank you. If you'd like a copy of the booklet that accompanies this year's lectures, please send a check or postal order for £4.95, made payable to BBC Education, to Arrows of Time, PO Box 7, London, W128UD, credit card orders by telephone on 0990 100 789. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Catching the Waves - Neil Johnson's 1999 Christmas Lectures 2⧸5 [TS3DLBOIABw].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to you Welcome to the 1999 Royal Institution Christmas Lectures We may think that was a very strange way of starting a lecture but that was an oscillation and these are waves you're familiar with these from the beach and they're a lot of fun and this is what the lecture is all about waves, oscillations and how do they connect with time and we're going to see that there's waves that actually carry information about time across space and we're also going to see how looking at light waves we learn something revolutionary about time itself so let's get going let's think about an oscillation well you saw one that was me on the bungee rope here's another one just swinging pendulum swings very regularly that's why we use it for a clock we count the swings, that gives us a measure of time but oscillations come in various forms here's another one okay it's not the same oscillation but it's doing the same thing, it's just repeating something over and over again like that swinging pendulum so what's that got to do with waves? well here I have ball on the spring, it's got a light inside if I let it go it's bringing up and down like me on the bungee you can see the light oscillate up and down, periodic repeats itself now let's see what happens as I move this across the bench you can see it trace out a wave and over here we have the picture of that wave so oscillations carried through space produce a wave well let's have a closer look at these oscillations oscillations carried through space well let's have a closer look at these waves over here we have a wave machine a wave machine is very simple it's got a bunch of rods all stacked up next to each other every time one moves, it's neighbor moves so if I come over here and I oscillate this end rod very much like I was letting the ball oscillate we'll see what happens see what happens as a wave travels but what exactly is travelling in this wave for this I need a volunteer to help me find out would you like to come down could you come over here please your name is? phase, would you hold this ball please and put it in the cup on this rod that's great, and go and stand at the end please now phase I'd like you to knock this ball off without actually coming over here that's wonderful thank you very much you can get out to see what phase has showed is that energy is the thing that's carried by a wave because by putting energy into an oscillation here and let it be carried on by the wave he can actually knock the ball off none of the rods travel, we know that but let's have a look at what happens when a wave hits a brick wall and then we'll see what happens when a wave hits a brick wall what I'm going to do is lock off this end rod and this acts like a wall because this rod can't move it's like a brick wall I'm going to come over here I'm going to send that wave down again and we're going to see what happens I'm just oscillating my hand up and down, producing this wave that travels along and ooh, it stopped travelling in fact, it looks like it's standing still in fact, this is called a standing wave because what's happened is waves travel down, being reflected back and produce this standing wave pattern now this is kind of interesting because this is telling us that there's a wall without actually having to walk over there and feel it so we're getting information from this wave so waves also carry information but I don't know how far away this wall is but maybe I could find out if instead of sending a long, slow wave I put a bit more energy into it and I sent a pulse see now it's a bit more interesting because now if I timed how long it took that pulse to get down to the wall and back and I knew the speed of the wave well, speed is distance per unit time 50 miles an hour, 50 miles per hour I'd work out the distance to the wall and I'd never actually have to walk over there and measure it so this is quite nice because you can get, using waves you can get information about distance by measuring time and that's such a good idea you think somebody should have thought of it before well, nature as often happens in science has thought of it before because there's a bunch of animals that actually use this to work out where they are, they want to avoid walls and they want to find food and quite often one of the animals you think about is doing this, sending pulses of waves to find out where they are and so bats use what we call echo which is exactly what we've seen here it's echo location so this sounds marvellous I think we ought to take a look at a bat see exactly what it does so I'm going to call on Mrs Jenny Clark from the Sussex Bat hospital who has a bat with her thank you for coming on Jenny what is your bat? this is Ador Benton he's a water bat, a medium size bat and he is now fit, happy and healthy but he came into the hospital seven years ago with a broken leg and a hole in his wing he's now very well but he can't fly properly which is why he hasn't been released into the wild he'll use echo locations to actually find food and find out where he is but we can't actually hear that sound very clearly because it's out of our hearing range it's too high in frequency too many oscillations per second well we actually have here a machine that may help us do that because what it does is it slows down time actually slows down the sound from the bat so I just want to show you, give a quick demonstration of what things sound like when they're slowed down we'll think we know what keys sound like let's see what a key slowed down sounds like a little bit different so let's see what your bat is telling us it's quite wonderful but that's like a chirping sound almost like a bird we actually couldn't hear anything when Jenny bought him on that's wonderful well thank you very much Jenny it's a pleasure and please take care of the bat thank you well this is such a wonderful thing that bats do do you think well can't we actually use that for something ourselves and well yes ultrasound and sending pulses of sound and getting reflection and getting information about space and about nature is something that's done and you may be familiar with this from pictures of unborn babies but actually medicine has moved on much further than that and just as you saw with the wave machine when I had to make very quick oscillations to send a very short pulse to actually be able to distinguish the length of time taken for that pulse to come back and therefore the distance to that wall if you're going to look at very very small distances inside the body you're going to need very very short pulses I'm very pleased that we've been able to get especially for this show Dr. Dan Rheinstein from Cornell University who's an eye surgeon who uses these techniques during surgery on the eye Dan Thank you very much for coming all this way Dan what have you brought on? Well we've brought here this is a laboratory tool but believe it or not we use it on patients and what it is is an ultrasound scanner that works at very high frequencies so the pulses are incredibly short and they allow us to measure tiny structures within the eye and Dan is there something you could demonstrate with this now? to show us the technique? Well we could demonstrate your eye if you like I think I'd like to see it work first have you got something else you can demonstrate? Well I was just joking we did think of something we thought that actually these sugar coated chocolate beans resemble an eye or at least the very very front of an eye so what we're going to do is we're going to try and do that and we're going to bring up a bowl with water because that helps the pulses pass through That's right we use the water to transmit the pulses to the bean and back Well let's see your bean in action Dan That's right thank you very much so let's see what we're going to look at here is this is a trace with nothing in front of the transducer but if I take a bean and we put it down in front of the transducer we put it into the water here we go and bean goes there and we're going to find it now put it in range there we go so now we have an echo you see on the screen there an echo coming directly from the bean very much like we had the pulse reflecting from the wall exactly the same but on a very small scale what I'm going to do this is a stationary pulse and what I'm going to do is I'm going to move the transducer in an arc and what this is going to do is it's basically going to scan the bean now that's giving us an image on the screen of the surface of the bean and if we freeze that that's the image the image is over here on the left and what we can do is save that and we will quit out of this program and measure things because what was of particular interest to us I think was to know just how thick the sugar coating is this was the big question to buy sugarcoated chocolate beans and really you have to do this before you eat them because in these calorie conscious days so there's the surface of the bean and we're now going to place the cursor out here and we're going to select an area to measure from like this and there we go and we get a trace now the trace here's the big echo that's the loudest one, it comes from the front surface and the second one is there and that comes 72 microns so 72 microns that's 72 millionths of a meter that's right, it's not very many calories right and so how does this help you Dan with eye surgery because presumably you don't spend your day well unless the patient has eaten a bean measuring a bean but in general what we do is we use this to look at the structures of the eye and I think we have a model over here which I will show and just place this here you see this is a plastic model of the eye the eye is like a camera and there's a film at the back and there's some lenses at the front and what we're interested in of course for eye surgery to correct vision so that we don't need glasses this is a new thing that we're doing with lasers is the cornea which is the front lens of the eye as you can see this front section of the eye can be scanned by our scanner to give an ultrasonic image of the very detailed small structures within the eye I think this is an oldish model because you can't actually see any of the features really of the front layers so this must be quite new yes, actually yes it's only been we've only measured this a few years ago and until then it was thought that the individual layers of the cornea were not important to measure we now know that they're extremely important that's very interesting how does this help you during the surgery right, well we have a little footage of the way that we scan patients before we start and you'll see here this is taken actually in pitch darkness so we're using an infrared camera and as you see we've got a patient lying under the water bath and the scanner is moving across the eye and taking different cross sections now after we've done this we make particular measurements and we use a laser you can hear it that's the laser pulsing and taking very very small amounts of tissue from the cornea to reshape it re-contour it and this is helping you actually improve the safety and precision of the surgery well exactly, in fact I've got a couple of images here to show that these are two this is the same cornea but this is the scan taken before surgery and this is the scan taken after surgery and you can see that at the level at which the laser was acting there is now an extra third line within the substance of the cornea and the distances from the front to that line and others are being used now to improve what is already a very accurate procedure into an even better surgery and the key to this was time because it was time short time pulses of sound that help you guide the surgery which uses short time pulses of laser light well thank you very much Dan for sharing this fact thank you applause applause applause so we've seen bats are very good at detecting times and there are machines that are very good at detecting times but how good are we at detecting the passing of time a volunteer please could you step down the blue sweater that's it could you come over here and your name is? Guy do you feel faster there you guy pretty fast yeah good we're going to check that out ok what's going to happen guy is I have a pad here that starts off a clock and you'll see these numbers flash in front of you and when you see them start to flash I want you to press this pad ok but obviously I'm not going to tell you when I start are you ready 82 well Guy these are actually the second rates of a second so it's actually quite good because it's 0.82 seconds best of three best of three ok oh it's 0.23 seconds last one 0.18 seconds well done Guy thank you very much applause applause applause so it's 0.18 seconds that's quite fast but actually that's not the fastest time that the body can actually detect because it turns out that while we're pretty good as Guy was at measuring the passing of time we're even better at measuring time differences a volunteer please could you come down black shirt could you come and sit on this store and face over towards me now I have some very sophisticated time difference measuring equipment but you need to be blindfolded so should we take off your glasses right is that tight enough can you see anything ok you can use your hands just steady this stethoscope into your ears is that comfortable so what we have here I'm sorry your name was Sam so Sam has attached to his ears this plastic tube plastic tube just full of air point is I'm going to tap it in the middle and since sounds actually going to travel along the two arms and I'm tapping in the middle then Sam's actually going to hear the sound arrive in his ears at the same time I think I need a pen for this so Sam this should be roughly the middle just tell me if this sounds like sounds arriving at the same time yep that's right great now Sam I'm actually going to tap away from the middle and I want you to hold up your hand the side that you think the sound is arriving first ok so that was the middle ah ok let's try it again this is the middle that's great ok Sam you can take the ear pieces out you can take the blind fold off I'm well done because actually what we've measured here this is distance but just by knowing the speed of sound of course we can convert distance into time if I turn this round you can see it better this was the middle and this short distance which was the distance where Sam could actually tell the difference between something arriving it is right here and he's left here it's actually 0.2 milliseconds thank you very much Sam thank you remember the earlier test came out to be 0.2 seconds this is 0.2 milliseconds that's a thousandth so we're really quite good at detecting time differences in air because we're built to work in air there's a problem if we're underwater because sound travels faster in water so the sound differences arrive at our ears well much quicker and this is the problem that divers face they're underwater they hear a boat above but they can't distinguish where the boat's coming from we use this time difference to actually locate objects that's why sometimes in films you see divers stare up at the surface because they can't tell where the boat's coming from so we're really sensitive to time differences but there's another aspect of waves and pulses that we're also sensitive to sound and music let's investigate this a little bit further now here I have a tuning fork you know about this because this is what you use to tune instruments so I just strike it it emits a note it doesn't sound much like an instrument I hear a flute same note didn't sound the same though did it saxophone again, same note didn't sound the same so what's going on if it's the same note it means it's got the same number of oscillations up and down but why isn't it sounding the same? well, actually the shape of the wave is different instead of being a smooth wave as it is for this tuning fork turns out by changing the shape of the wave you actually give the character to the note but it's not as simple as that and we're going to take a look at what else makes music, music for this I need a volunteer who can play the violin? could you come down? actually this is Luisa, who I know can play the violin hello Luisa here is violin could you stand here just face over would you like to have a little practice while I cut my saxophone horn play a tune if you fancy okay, well we should get on with the business in hand because Luisa, we're going to test out what it is about musical instruments that makes us tell what's going on, which instrument is which and we need Elia's help here so just stand behind you and I want you to play a continuous note nice strong note high note one, two, three, four wonderful now I'll do the same on the saxophone one, two, three, four and what we've done is we've recorded these two notes on the computer and here's the wave shown as a function of time so Elia, could we just hear those two notes? four that's the violin and now the saxophone now what Elia's going to do he's actually going to remove the first few fractions of a second from each of these notes and now we're going to hear what they sound like now you see it's not so obvious which instrument is which thank you very much, Luisa what we've demonstrated is that the shape of the wave isn't the whole story that a lot of the character that we hear from musical instruments is actually coming from a tiny fraction of a second the attack on the note now now we've been talking a lot about sound sounds pretty fast but light is much much faster if we can do all those kind of things with sound what can we do with light? well think I need a volunteer to help me understand and help us understand what light has to offer would you mind coming up? and your name is? James and I need another volunteer please your name is? Nick now Nick, I'd like you to come and stand over here and James you stand there now Nick, I want you to face the audience turn around and face the audience don't turn around until I tell you okay? James, what I'd like you to do just stand here what I'd like you to do is follow exactly what I'm doing okay? just carry on doing what you're doing as I go over and talk to Nick now Nick stand over here I'm going to turn you around and you're going to see a white screen don't be s-  skip, turn around. Now what I want you to do is I want you to tell me what you see James doing when I lift the screen. Okay? Here we go. What did you see? What did you see? I'm putting his arms up in the air. Have a look. Keep looking. Keep looking. Still got his arms up in the air? Okay. Well, now I'm going to show you just a little bit more quickly what's going on. With more frequency, I'm going to actually lift this screen up. What do you see? Yeah, he's beginning to wave his arms around. Actually, this is what he's doing. Thank you very much, both of you. So what we've seen is that more frequency gives you more information. That's what light does for you. Let me just show you what's going on in terms of the waves that we saw at the beginning of the program. Here I have a generator of waves. It actually generates oscillations, but if we stretch out the oscillations in time, we see a wave. That's what we've seen. If I have the frequency very low, you see you don't really see much of a wave. It's a very slow wave, very slow oscillation. So if you are trying to find out something about nature, some object that was this big, you haven't got much of a wave to actually do it with. You really want to build a pulse. Remember back to the wave machine, I need to build a pulse, send it down to the object, get it back, measure the time, measure the distance, get some information about the object. But if I turn the frequency up, you see what happens. So I'm just turning the frequency, making the oscillations quicker and quicker, more and more oscillations per second. You see more of the wave appear. In fact, the wave has many more oscillations in this tiny window. That's great for building pulses. That's great for finding out things, for finding information about things that we can't normally see, that we can't normally access. And to show us how this can be useful, I'm very pleased to welcome John Bola from Oxford Lasers. He's actually going to show us how they use lasers and pulses of lasers to actually find out things about nature. Hello John. Thank you for bringing on your equipment. And what exactly is this equipment? OK. What we have here is a combination of a high speed video camera. This camera is able to take 500 frames per second, which is approximately ten times faster than the normal sort of video camcorders that we use. Yes. And then in combination with that, we're going to use a laser light source, which in fact is a pulsed laser light source. So we will pulse each pulse from the laser to work with the camera, sorry. And how quick are these pulses, John? Each pulse is a microsecond. It's a microsecond. A microsecond is a millionth of a second. So what can we do with this? OK. What we're going to do is, in this case, we've got a water spray here. And what I'm going to ask you to do is to squeeze it. It's a sort of a household spray that we use for cleaning the house. And I'm going to try and image the spray coming out of the nozzle at 500 frames per second. So hopefully we can see something going on with the spray, which we wouldn't normally see. The important point is, the pulses here are much, much quicker than that. That's right. So normally, if you were to use a continuous light source from, say, a lamp, the spray coming out of the nozzle would actually blur and you wouldn't see what was going on. Whereas in this case, we can actually freeze the motion of the spray coming out of the nozzle. That's great. So we're getting more information. So let's just try this. OK. So I turned the laser on. Now, unfortunately, the laser's invisible to your eye. It's only able to be seen by the camera, which is more sensitive than our eye to this particular wavelength of light. So if you squirt, and again, go... That's it. That's good. And then I can play that back from the memory in the camera. Now I'm playing it at a much slower rate than we'd normally see. And we need to get to the point where we actually see something. There it is. And now you can see all the individual droplets as they're actually forming out of the nozzle. Because this is something we wouldn't normally see, of course. Exactly. And I can play that really slowly. And you can see each of the individual droplets as they're forming out of the nozzle of the spray gun. So this must have an enormous number of applications. The main application we work with is in the manufacture of fuel injectors for car engines. There's a lot of work going on in reducing emissions. And the size of these droplets is very important in the amount of emissions that come out of car engines. The smaller, the better. And then you can make the cars much cleaner for the environment. Well, that's very interesting, John. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. I'm going to try and use the clipboard. So what we've seen is a camera recording laser pulses in time. But actually, people have turned that around. And they've actually started, for our own entertainment, using arrays of cameras in space, taking photos at a given moment in time. And let's have a look what that comes out as. This is the arrangement of cameras in space. And they're all set to take the same moment. At the same moment, they'll take a photo of an object, but from a different angle. So the cameras are set up. And that's the effect. I think it would agree. It's quite remarkable. So we've said a lot about light. It turns out that light's actually only one of the waves in the same spectrum, the electromagnetic spectrum. Well, what else is in that spectrum? I have here a model which shows us. Here we have light in the center. This is frequency going along here, number of oscillations per second. As we go up in frequency, we get ultraviolet. Well, that's what makes us go brown, or in my case, red in the sun. And if I go up further in frequency, we see x-rays, very high frequency, very short pulses, can see things within the body. Little further, we have cosmic rays and gamma rays. If I go down in frequency, we have infrared, which actually we know as heat, and radio waves. They're also television waves, waves from mobile phones. They're all part of the same spectrum. They're all the same waves. They all travel at the same speed. And that speed is the speed of light. That speed's very special. I'll tell you a bit about that in a moment. But first of all, we're going to have a go at measuring the speed of light. Now I need a volunteer to help me. Could you come up, please? And your name is? Helen. Helen. Could you come and stand here, Helen, while they bring on the speed of light measuring equipment? Does it just stand out the way? Helen, just come around this side. Because, Helen, you're going to be data collect. This is the data we need. We need the wavelength and the frequency of the light. Because we need to multiply these two together. Are you good at multiplying, Helen? Not too bad. Not too bad, OK. We've always got the calculator here. That will give the speed. OK. So let's start measuring the wavelength. What do we need to measure the wavelength of light? A microwave and a dish of marshmallows. And here they are arranged in a line. And we're going to bung them in the microwave and cook them. OK. So let's just close the door. Now don't try this at home. Now what's going to happen to these marshmallows? They're going to cook. But they're actually not going to cook evenly. Microwave ovens, particularly if you've turned off the rotating table, don't cook evenly. And what happens is, if you remember back to the wave machine, when there was a wall and we sent a wave against the wall, we set up a standing wave, a wave that didn't move anywhere. It just stood still. Well, that's our key for measuring the wavelength. Because in the points where the wave is actually moving up and down a lot, there has a lot of energy there. And so there, the marshmallows should actually melt first. So let's have a look, Helen. Let's take out these marshmallows. And yes, we have a look at them. You see, some of them are melting. Others haven't. Then they've melted. Others haven't. And there's actually a pattern. So just like on this card here, if we take this point as the point where the marshmallows have melted and this point, it will actually give us a measure of half the wavelength. So let's do that, Helen. Let's close that door. Let's take out a tape measure. Oh, we have a ruler here. And Helen, if you'd just like to help me measure the distance, we need the separation of these two melted bits. About six. About six. OK, so that's half of the wavelength. So six centimeters. So Helen, if you could write down here, 12 centimeters as the wavelength. That's right. Just write centimeters here. That's great. Now we need the frequency. Frequencies on the back. Come and have a look with me. Come and have a look here. It says 2450 megahertz. Now megahertz is a million hertz. A million oscillations per second. So let's write down 2450. Now we need to put a million after it. So it's six zeros. That's great. Now we need to just multiply these things together. Except we should really convert this into meters, because this is oscillations per second times we'd like it to be meters. So let's turn 12 centimeters into 0.12 meters. And we've got to multiply these two numbers together. Well, let's put an equal sign here. And write down here, six zeros. So we take care of the zeros. OK. And now I want you, Helen, to multiply 0.12 by 2450. That gives 294. So let's put in some commas here, because I can never read these things with all those zeros. There we go. So what we've got is 294 million meters per second. And here we have the number that physicists use for the speed of light. And it is 300 million meters per second. So you've measured the speed of light. Thank you very much, Helen. APPLAUSE Turns out that Helen hasn't just measured the speed of light. She's measured the fastest thing in the universe. There's nothing that travels faster than the speed of light in the universe. Nothing actually can travel faster. But the story of this discovery is actually one of the greatest revolutions in science itself. And it tells us something completely revolutionary about time. It was Albert Einstein who made this discovery. This is Albert Einstein. At the beginning of this century, he was working as a patent clerk in Bern in Switzerland. Now, he was very worried about time itself. He knew that Newton's idea of time, which had been around for hundreds of years, the accepted view of time was that there was a clock in the sky, one big clock in the sky for everybody. And that was universal absolute time. But the speed of light worried him. And let's just imagine how he might have been feeling and what might have caused those worries. Let's imagine he was working away in his office, in the patent office, looking up at Bern town hall clock. And the clock has just struck four. So it's four and there are five seconds. Well, what happened, of course, we know that the speed of light is very big, but it's finite. It takes time for light to go from here to there. So it took time for this light, leaving the clock at five seconds past four, to actually get over to where Einstein was. Meanwhile, of course, the clock's ticking on. Now, Einstein asked himself the following question. Why haven't I tried to get away from this light? What happened if I rode along on a light beam? And if we look at this now, we can begin to see that there might be a problem with time itself. Because look what happens. This clock tries to chase after Einstein heading off at the speed of light. This is going the speed of light. Doesn't catch him up. So for him, time never passes to four with five seconds. Time stops. Something funny is happening with time. Actually, the way Einstein thought about it, he went back to start to think about motion. Something was going wrong with the way that he was viewing, or everybody was viewing, the movement of objects. And he thought about the following problem. If you're sitting on a train at a station, and you see alongside you another train, and you momentarily lapse the concentration, or you doze off, and you wake up, and you see this moving relative to this other train, in that split second, you don't know whether you're moving or the other train is moving. I'm sure some of you have experienced that. So what you do is you look out the other window, and you actually see the platform, the solid platform, which you definitely know isn't moving. And you think, ah, OK, now I know which train's moving. What Einstein said is, well, the universe doesn't have a platform outside. There's no absolute rest in the universe. All we can ever say is that one object moves with respect to another. But we don't know which one is actually moving. So let's go back to Einstein moving at light speed. Imagine he had a hand mirror. And this is exactly the way he thought about it. He imagined he did have a hand mirror, and he was trying to look at his image. If he was traveling along at the speed of light, well, the light waves would actually be traveling on with him. They would never have the time to leave his face, hit the mirror, come back. He would never see his image. The image would disappear. Now, for all of you in the audience watching Einstein heading off at the speed of light, of course, his image, too, would disappear. Because you would see him traveling at the speed of light. You would see the light waves traveling at the speed of light. And again, his image would disappear. So you would know that Einstein was moving at the speed of light, and you weren't. But that goes completely against our little story about the trains, that there is no way of telling absolute motion, who is moving. Now, this was a complete dilemma. And it provoked a revolutionary leap of faith on Einstein's part. Because the only way he saw out of this is to make the following statement, that the speed of light is the same value, the value we just measured, the same value for all observers. It doesn't matter if you're sitting here, you're on the bus going home, or in the starship and you're on the home, or in the starship enterprise. It's exactly the same value. If you did that experiment, you would get the same value for the speed of light. Now, that isn't the way we're used to thinking about how things move. Because if I throw you a ball, you catch it. You know if you run away fast enough from that ball, that actually it wouldn't catch up with you. But that's not how light works, according to Einstein. And actually, according to every single experiment that's been done since he made that proposal, it seems that the speed of light is the same for all observers. So let's see what the consequence of that actually is. And I need a volunteer to help me with that. Would you come up and help me? And your name is? Ruby. Ruby. Let's see what Einstein had to say for himself. Ruby, could you come and sit down on this trolley and face that direction? OK. Cross-legged. That's great. Ruby, I'm going to hand you this ball with a light inside. It's actually a light pulse. So I'm handing Ruby a light pulse. Ruby, just throw it up and down and catch it. That's it. Doesn't have to be too high. Just keep catching it. Now, we all agree. Keep going. The distance, you're doing great. We all agree the distance that this light pulse is actually traveling up and down. In fact, we can imagine that this light pulse is actually going up, hitting a mirror, traveling back down again. We all agree about the distance. We all agree about the speed of light. We just measured it. We all agree about the time it takes. And actually, that's not a bad clock. It's not so different from actually the bungee I came in on at the beginning of the program. So that's a good clock. We all agree about the time that passes on that clock. But now, Ruby, what I want you to do is to take a little bit of what I want you to do is throw that ball in the air while I pull you across the front of the desk. Marvelous. Thank you very much, Ruby. She'd like to go and sit down. APPLAUSE Something strange has happened. We saw something different from Ruby. Ruby was sitting on the trolley. She was throwing the ball up and down. The ball was traveling the same distance. Remember, that ball is a light pulse. So the light was traveling the same distance up and down, whether she was stationary or whether I was pulling her along, because the ball was going up and down in front of her. But for us, that light pulse was traveling a different distance. Instead of going up and down, you could just about see this. It was actually tracing a kind of zigzag pattern. So not only was it going up and down, it was also going along. It was traveling a larger distance. But we've just agreed, if Einstein's right, the speed of light is the same for all of us, same for Ruby, same for us. So if the speed is the same and the distance is different and speed is distance per unit time, the time must be different for Ruby and for us. Now, this is quite mind-blowing. But it could be useful. Imagine Ruby had a twin sister, exactly the same age, but she doesn't like having the same birthday, exactly the same moment. Ruby goes off in a spaceship a couple of years, comes back again. The time measured by Ruby on the spaceship is different from the time measured by her twin sister back on Earth. Ruby comes back, she's done it, she's younger. Different birthdays. Time passes differently according to how you move. This completely shatters Newton's notion of absolute time in the universe. Newton was wrong. Well, it's so bizarre that I think we should check it out and see if it actually works. But what I think we need for this is someone whose job is the head of time at Britain's National Physical Laboratory, and that's Dr. John Lavety, who's bringing on his twins. And we're going to see how we can check out Einstein's theory of relativity. Hello, John. Nice to see you. Thanks for bringing on the twins. What exactly do we have here? We've got two cesium atomic clocks. These are some of the most accurate clocks that there are in the world. And at the National Physical Laboratory, we use clocks like this to help maintain the world time system. And how accurate are these clocks, these particular ones? Well, for a clock like this to lose a second, you'd have to wait something like a million years. A million years. Now, we can't normally hang about that long. So perhaps a better way to say the same thing is the clocks keep the time to within a few billionths of a second each day. So this sounds like the kind of clock that we need to check out Einstein's theory of relativity. Sure. If you flew a clock like this halfway around the world and brought it back, you should be able to see the effects of relativity. Well, if we were to do that, of course, before, we'd have to actually make sure they are twins and synchronize them. Make sure they show exactly the same time. How would you do that, John? OK. Well, I'll get it set up now. It's a bit like the counter we saw earlier on in the lecture, going up in hundreds of a second. But now we're going to use a counter that's counting up in billions of a second. Billions of a second. All right. So you can't see... Let's come around here. You've got the time on both clocks. As far as you can see on the front panel, they agree. But you can't actually perceive billions of a second looking at those LED displays. So what we're going to look at are the electronic ticks coming out of the clock. We've got one here that's going to the counter. I'm going to plug in the other clock. And we'll see what the time difference is between their pulses. And this time difference is shown over here. OK. There we go. You can see a lot of zeros there, but that's basically saying there's roughly 700 billionths of a second difference between the two clocks. 700 billionths of a second. That's tiny. But we still need them to be exactly the same. I'm going to make some adjustments to this clock to try and bring them back into line. They've got to be identical twins. Identical twin clocks. OK. I'm going to try and put the time difference in now. So let's see what happens on the computer display. OK. We brought them back into line. That's as close as I can get it from these kind of controls, but within four to five billionths of a second, the two clocks are telling the same time. So, John, if we took one of these clocks off on a journey and brought it back, say, in the last lecture, we might be able to test Einstein's theory of relativity. Well, here are some tickets to Shanghai. OK. Thank you very much. Take your clock and let's see if Einstein was right. OK. I'll unplug and off we go. APPLAUSE So today we've seen something revolutionary about time. And tomorrow we'll see something equally revolutionary that doesn't involve flying into outer space at high speeds that happens right here on Earth. So please join me then. Thank you. APPLAUSE . . .

=== FILE: Elephants can't dance, but hamsters can - Mark Miodownik 2010 Christmas Lectures 1⧸3 [ZVnmOWYnlK0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Well, hello everybody, hello. My name is Mark Miodovnik. I'm a material scientist from King's College London. And I'm going to talk to you about stuff. You all made of stuff. I made of stuff. This floor is made of stuff. And it's wonderful stuff. But you think you know something about stuff, don't you? But I'm going to show you some strange stuff that perhaps you don't know so much about. The Royal Institution. Such a civilized place. A cup of tea before I start my lecture. How wonderful. And I need some sugar. Let's get some sugar stuff. Here it is. Put it in my tea. Now, look, even the cup is made of stuff. The spoon is made of stuff. Stir my cup. And the thing is about stuff is that sometimes it does things that you weren't really expecting. A spoon that melts in your tea. Not so useful maybe, but still incredible, don't you think? Now, while we're all incredible, I've got a liquid here that's incredible. And before I show it to you, I want to ask you all a favor. Did you all turn off your common sense for this lecture? I need you just to turn it off. I know your mums and dads want you to have it on for the rest of the time afterwards. But I'm going to show you some things that are so strange, so odd that it's just going to be a hindrance if you'll keep saying, oh, that doesn't make any sense. So turn off your common sense. Now, liquids and mobile phones, they don't really mix, do they? Anyone who's ever sat down at the loo with their phone in the back pocket and heard a splash knows this. Okay, so you shouldn't be doing this, should you? Right? No problem at all if you've got a strange liquid called a fluorocarbon. This stuff doesn't hurt mobile phones at all. In fact, mobile phones love it. Still working fine as you like. Now, don't you think we should put this in all the loos? Anything? That will save us all a lot of bother. So stuff really can just take you completely unawares. Here is a coffee cup set, sent to me by my aunt. I was using it for ages until I thought, there's something very odd about this. I took it into the lab and we did all sorts of tests on it. Nothing came up positive until we used the Geiger counter on it. Now, a Geiger counter detects radioactivity. Now, if I'm radioactive, this will click. Whew. It's a very strange present from your aunt, don't you think? I've been checking all her presents from then on with the Geiger counter, I can tell you. So how do we understand these strange properties of matter? And can we, once we understand them, can we use them to make even more marvelous things? Well, in order to understand that, I need to take you on a journey which is going to involve understanding about size. And we, you know, what does that mean? Well, we're sort of used to the three dimensions of space, aren't we? Sort of x, y, z, left, right, down, back, up. And you sort of think, if I know where I am in those dimensions, surely I know everything. But it turns out not to be true. It turns out that even for a whale or an ant or a teacup, you need to know how big you are if you know how things are going to happen in the world. So let me take you on a journey. We're going to be dimension travelers in these lectures. And I'm going to take you to the really big, I'm going to take you to skyscrapers. And I'm going to show you that the forces that dominate up there is gravity. And that's going to really make a big difference to huge things. And then we're going to zoom in to small things, atoms. And we're going to see that different physics dominates down there. Quantum mechanics, very strange stuff goes on. And also, despite the fact that it's very small, there's a lot of space down there. How weird is that? And the key point is going to be that at different scales different physics dominate. So even though I can stand on a tiny salt crystal, right, it isn't, it's not gravity that's keeping me stuck to it. It's the surface forces of this crystal plane. It's actually very sticky. In this lecture, what we're going to be doing is looking at animals, right? And how size affects animal behavior. In particular, why it's very useful to be small. So we're going to look at ants and we're going to see how they're super strong. And to be honest, when you're shrunk down like this, super scary. And then we're going to look at the big things, elephants, right? Wonderful, huge creatures, amazing things. But it turns out they're not actually relatively very strong. And we're going to ask the question, can they really dance? Okay, so that's going to be the journey we're going to take. Now, I've got a pet hamster called Hamish. Has anyone here got a pet at all? Have any of you got pets? You have? So let the shout out their name. What is it? You got cats? Dogs? What have you got? Dog? Crocodile? Okay, all right. Fantastic. Now, I took my pet hamster on holiday with me. I hope you all take your pets on me. I hope you all take your pets on holiday with you. So we went to Dubai and the reason we went to Dubai, it's very hot there, I wanted to get this sun, so did my hamster. And the reason we went there is because we wanted to see the tallest building in the world. This is the Burj Khalifa and it is huge. It's half a mile high and we went to the top of the Burj Khalifa and this is what happens when you look down. It is very scary, half a mile down, that's what it seems. And I have my hamster and I said to my hamster, whoa, that's a long way down. Tell you what, I'll race you to the bottom, you go this way, right, and I'll take the lift. And the funny thing is that he kind of was up for that. He was up for jumping. Now that isn't a very tenable position for a hamster, is it? Jumping off a building. Or is it? Maybe he knows something that I don't. Now if I fell from this height, I'd certainly die. But could Hamish survive? Dars size matter when it comes to falling off buildings. We really should meet Hamish, don't you think? And see what he's got to say. So come and meet Hamish, the hamster, and also his friend, the dog, Sweet. Ah, here's Hamish. Ah, hello Hamish. Sweet. Hello, what's your name? Charlotte. Charlotte and you? Alan. And you've got Sweet and Hamish. Ah, how's he doing? And how's Sweet? They're both happy, right? Okay, now, who thinks that, let's say Hamish could survive a tall, drop off a tall building? Quite a lot of you. And who thinks that they have no chance? Hamish has no chance of surviving. Who thinks that? A few of you, right, a few of you. Okay, so we're undecided in this audience, aren't we? Okay, and what about Sweet the Dog? Who thinks Sweet the Dog could survive a large fall off a building? Whoa, no one buzzed. Oh, you do? Fantastic. Brilliant. Okay, love it. Okay, great. Okay, so how would we decide this? How can we decide if this is true or not? Well, let's do an experiment, right? Now, you'll have noticed we've got this large box here in this lecture here. Now, this isn't as tall as a tall building, but it's pretty high. So if we do an experiment dropping pets, we're going to surely find out the answer to this, aren't we? Now, of course, we're not going to drop real pets. Did you think? Oh, come on. I really hope that no one at home either thinks about dropping pets. It's really cool. We'd never do that. We've got some crash test pets over here who are going to take the place of these pets, and we're going to do the experiment with these crash test pets. But later on, we're going to bring you two back on to review the results. Is that okay, Hamish? Yeah, you can watch over there. So you go back and take your seat, and you do Sweet, and we'll see what happens. All right. So this is pretty exciting. This is Andy. Andy has rigged up this thing, and it's a box, and it's going to take these crash test pets to the top of this lecture theatre. Now, what are these crash test pets? They're balloons filled with jelly, which is ballistic jelly. So it's kind of, it replicates the flesh of a, well, I mean, a bit. All right. So this is crash test dog. He's ready, isn't he? And this is a crash test hamster. Yes. Oh, he's moving all over the place. All right. They're a bit nervous. Fair enough. They're going to have a bit of a jump. Now, they're in trepid pets. So let's put crash test hamster up, and let's go for this. Now, all right. Up he goes. Now, you'll notice that they're both the same shape, right? And they're both made of the same material. So this is a fair, this is a fair comparison. Now, sometimes they don't want to jump. They get nervous when they get, you know what it's like going to the top of the tour board. They don't want to jump. And so we've got this trap door, and I press this button and hate, and crash test hamster has no choice but to drop. It's a bit of a James Bond trick, actually. Okay. Crash test hamster. Let's do a countdown for him. Shall we? Okay. Five, four, three, two, one. Whoa. Let's hear it for crash test hamster. Yes. Okay. So crash test hamster has survived as you, most of you thought. And now it is only, let's just have a look at him. How is he feeling? Yes, you're fine. Well done. Good one. He's always bringing on, he's saying. Tall or higher, bigger. Okay. Now crash test dog is looking a bit nervous now. He's got his turn next. Crash test dog, how are you feeling? Yes. All right. You're being a bit quiet. Okay. All right. Let's get crash test dog in here. How's he feeling? All right now. Crash test dog, up he goes. I've got a little kind of communication link with crash test dog. Yes, I know, I know. You'll get a bone. Yes. Yes. Okay. All right. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Okay. Five, four, three, two, one. Oh. I think we might need an ambulance. Oh. Yeah, we might, I think we're getting the ambulance. Yeah, okay. Fine. The jelly ambulance is coming. All right. All right. So crash test dog is not looking too well from that point. So it turns out that essentially as you guys thought most of you were going to be, you were going to be looking too well from that point. So it turns out that essentially as you guys thought most of you, and it does actually matter how big you are whether you survive a fall. So what's changed? I mean, we've got the same material. One of them isn't stronger than the other one, right? It's just jelly, and they're both made of jelly. So what has changed? Well, one is bigger than the other. What does bigger mean? Well, let's think about volume. There's a funny word, isn't it, volume? Because you can't even think of it as liquids and things that you drink, but it actually just means how much space you occupy. But it is an odd thing. So let's just explore volume for a bit. And I'm going to need a volunteer for this. Okay. Yes. Would you like to volunteer there? Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Look at me. Annie. Okay. Annie. Do you want to come around here, Annie? Now, here we go. This is, this looks like some weird game, isn't it? It sort of is, in a way. I hope you're up for this. Now, we've got one sphere here which is empty, and it's twice as big as these small spheres which are full of water, colored water, right? Now, when you, when I said it's twice as big, you didn't stop me there, did you? But you probably wanted to say, tell me more. What do you mean by bigger? Right? Good thinking. So let me, I'll answer that question. It's an excellent question. So I'm talking about the width, so the diameter, right? So let me just prove that to you that these, so this is seven and a half in width, diameter, and this is 15. Right? So across there, it's double. Now, the question to you, and this is really difficult because you're under the cameras and the lights and everything, I'm going to ask you how many of these, if we had to pour into that one, just twice the diameter, would we have to pour in in order to fill this up to the top? I.e., what's the ratio of the volumes? Now, I'm going to give you two seconds to think about this. God, you've already, I'm going to ask the audience to think about this too, but not to shout out, but to do the calculation in your heads, because you all know the formula for a volume of a sphere, don't you? Right? Four over three pi r cubed. All right. So you guys do the calculation, right? And we'll do the experiment. So go on then. How many do you think? Eight. Eight? Are you sure? Yes. Oh, ho, ho. Do you think she's right? Who thinks that that is way too many? Quite a lot of you. And who thinks it's too few? And actually, it's a trick that we've only put nine here. Some of you. Nice. Would we do that? Maybe we would. All right. So let's go. Why don't you have a go? You think eight. That's one. Although, this isn't going up very fast. That's two. All right. That's three. Four. Well, it's looking good for you, isn't it? That's five. Are you getting nervous? A little bit. All right. That's six. This is seven. And here we go. Now, the question is, is it going to be eight? And are you going to be victorious? And if you are, are you going to run up the stairs shouting, A-P? Yes. Thank you. You. You. Okay. Look, thank you very much for that. And yeah, do have a seat again. Okay. So it's quite surprising. Don't you think you increase something by twice, right? The width or the diameter twice. And your volume increases by eight times. Now, crash test dog is back and he's bandaged up. He survived. Yes. That's like, I mean, the show must go on, doesn't it? How are you feeling? Oh, yeah. Not too tired. I'm not feeling oh, yeah. Not too talkative. Fair enough. Okay. So how does this all relate to crash test dog and crash test hamster? Well, they're different sizes. So how different in sizes are they? Well, crash test hamster is about five and a bit. And crash test dog is about 25 and a bit. So crash test dog is five times bigger than crash test hamster. If you do the mass in your head, you're doing up there now. That turns out that crash test dog is 100 times bigger volume than crash test hamster. 100 times. Okay. So that, that would mean, if that's true, that would mean that crash test dog is 100 times heavier than crash test hamster, right? Force of gravity on it. It's going to be 100 times heavier. So do you guys believe me on that one? Do you think that's at all believable? 100 times heavier. Well, I've got some scales here and let's just have a look at that because let's measure it. So crash test hamster, right, is about 100 grams and a crash test dog even injured with his bandage. So it's a bit unfair because he got a bit more weight. But, oh, yes, just over, over 10 kilos. So crash test dog is about, in fact, slightly more than 100 times bigger than crash test hamster. 100 times heavier. So does that, does that, does that answer our question why crash test dog had such a hard time when he hit the floor? Because it was 100 times heavier, had 100 times more force, you know, hurtling him down to the floor. Well, it's not the whole story because when you hit the floor, you can, you can, you can basically spread your weight, right, and the force of impact over a large area. So the pressure on every part of you would be reduced. Okay? So it's not just how much force you hit the floor with, it's how much you can spread it out. So that's about area, isn't it, this kind of thing called area. And so we really want to know whether crash test dog is 100 times bigger area, whether the outside of crash test dog is 100 times bigger area than crash test hamster, don't we? That's what we really want to know. So what we did earlier is we scanned in with a 3D scanner, these two animals, right, crash test animals, and we, we worked out their areas, and we've got them here. Oh, yes, look, surface area of crash test hamster is 100, and crash test, surface area of crash test dog is 2,800. So that's, that's a bit concern making now. Now, now we're starting to get worried for crash test dog in, too late, I know you're saying, but anyway, because the area over which it could spread that force has only gone up by essentially 28 times, but the weight has gone up by 100 times. And this tells you something really fundamental about making things bigger. It's, it's that the area to volume ratio changes when you get bigger. So as you get bigger, it turns out that you, your area doesn't keep up with your volume. You get more inside and you get less and less outside proportionally. And that really means that when you hit the ground, you've got less area to spread that force over. So we have an action replay, I know you've all been waiting for this action replay of the rather unfortunate accident hamster. So this is, this is crash test hamster coming down and spreads its weight over a large area and survives. We knew it survived. So it, it was okay. Now if we go to crash test dog, what happens is crash test dog comes down, tries to spread, it got 100 times more force, but it's only got 28 times more area and basically the pressure on all its extremities couldn't cope and it's split, but it's luckily it's, we could rebuild them and he seems to be on the mend. So there it is. So it turns out the reason, right, one of the reasons why it gets that easier for you to survive before when you're smaller, because you've got a lot of area and not very much volume. So your surface area to volume ratio is very high. And there's something else that helps you too, right? Because we, we, we've kind of gone on the assumption that they've hit the floor at the same speed, but, but did they? I mean, things don't always fall at the same speed and I want to just show you something about that here with this demo. I've got a snowflake and I've got a snowball, right? Well they're not really snowflakes, but they are, you know, they represent them, right? They're the same weight. They're exactly the same weight, but they won't fall or let's see, will they fall at the same speed? Okay. No, they won't. So that's interesting because basically they have the same force on them, don't they? They have the same force pushing them down, pulling them down on gravity because they've got the same weight, but this one has more area, has more air resistance. So if you think about that with regards to small hampsters, not only do, when they hit the ground, do they have more area to spread it over, right? When they're coming down, they slow down quicker because of their, again, their surface to volume ratio is really good. And we know this, right? Snow falls very gently, doesn't it? If you take the same volume of liquid and you make it into a, into a drop of rain, it hits the floor quite hard actually, hits the top of my head very hard. I can tell you that's the price you pay for being a little bit bald. But anyway, let's not go into that. Thanks for bringing it up. Okay. So, all right. So we know the rules now. The rules are falling are that surface to volume ratio is king. You really need to know this. So if I, instead of hampster was jumping off the tallest building, if it was me, right, then I could manipulate the rules maybe. So let's say I jump off the building, right? I'm falling through the air, right? And then I realized that I haven't got big enough surface to volume ratio. Doesn't that always happen after you jump? So I think, Hamish chucked me the umbrella. Thanks. Hamish chucked me on the umbrella. And now I've increased my area, right? And so I'm going to slow down. And I fall much slower. So I fall, I basically am cheating. I'm actually increasing my area artificially. And this, of course, is the essence of a parachute. So parachutes work because they change, you cheat, you change your surface to air ratio, you add a lot of area and you don't really change your weight very much or volume very much. So that's really cool. So actually when you're parachuting, what you're doing is becoming a hamster. Okay? Parachuteers don't talk about it like that. It's much more of a gung-ho sport. But that's really what's happening. So, okay, it's not just actually that it helps you jump off buildings with surface volume ratio and survive falls. It's really important in your whole life how many of you are fed up with people saying to you, oh, God, you've grown. Well, how tall are you now? And you're like, why are you obsessed with my height? You know, that kind of thing. And then people constantly measuring your height. And you're like, next time I've got a good line for you guys. You say, look, don't worry about my height. It's my surface volume ratio you should be worrying about. Okay? When I was a kid, I used to go to the swimming pool with my brothers who were all bigger than me. And I used to start shivering about 10 minutes in, freezing, cold, blue. I went blue with cold. And they were like totally fine swimming around for hours. And I always used to think, oh, my God, they're sort of stronger, tougher than me, aren't they? But actually they just had a lower surface volume ratio than me. So your area is what cools you as a person, right? So that you evaporate water off you. And it's your volume that gives you your warmth, you know, the blood and all those kind of things. So if you haven't got very much volume and you've got a lot of area, then you're going to cool down fast. And so you're going to shiver. So the bigger you get, the less cold you're going to get in swimming pools. And this is also true of babies, right? So people always dressing babies up with 10 coats and you're like, come on, don't model call them. But they've got a terrible, in a sense, surface volume ratio when it comes to cold. You really do need to put coats on them. So that's us manipulating surface volume ratio. But could we find examples of nature to manipulate in other ways? And we found one the other day when I was on holiday. I was looking at the ceiling in Dubai and this gecko was walking across the ceiling and I was thinking, how can it do that? That's really mad. And so I kind of went home and I sort of started to use a research about how geckos can stick on the ceiling. Hello, shall we, we've got a gecko with us, haven't we? Gordon gecko. He's in there, isn't he? And what kind of gecko is he? He's a toke gecko. The largest type you can get. Right. Okay. Brilliant. And he is able to walk up to the ceiling, isn't he? He is able to walk up to the ceiling. It's pretty amazing, isn't it? We've got a gecko with us up walls, everybody. Okay. So can we have a look, would he have a go at that, do you think? Yes. Is he going to be camera shy or is he going to be? Okay. That would be a bit noisy. Okay. Oh, there he goes. He looks a bit annoyed. Is he a bit annoyed? He's all right. They do have a bit of a temper on them. Right. Is it because he hasn't eaten or something? Is he, or he's been eating? No, he's all right. Okay. Because I get a bit annoyed. I mean, I sort of short that anyway. Ready? Okay. There he is. Look at that. Now how on earth does he do that? That is so brilliant. Well done. That is so amazing. Now you hang on there. It would be all right if I could just hang on there. Yeah. Amazing. Isn't it amazing? All right. So let's think about how a gecko can do this. Actually, I was thinking in my hotel room and I was having a word with Hamish the hamster and we came up with four possible explanations. I'm going to run them past you and then we're going to do a vote so you guys can run with me on this one. We thought that it may be that geckos have some sort of glue on their paws. Right. A bit like a spider squirting out glue and that's how they can walk up walls. So that is option number one for you to think about. Option number two is that they actually have nails. Wow, not nails, you know, but you know something spiky. All right. And that's how they get up these walls. Oh, is he all right? Yeah, he's fine. I'm talking about you gecko. Yeah, yes. Yes. Option number three is that and this is my favorite that they have little these kind of suckers suckers on them, you know, like stuff you put on the bathroom and things like that suckers impressed. Well, all right. And option number four, they have some sort of weird hairs on them weird kind of hairs. I we sort of run out of ideas. And we by that point. Okay, weird hairs. So let's have a vote. Who thinks it is bits of glue bit like a spider squirting out glue anyone who votes for that? Oh, no one who votes for the nails. Come on. That's quite a good idea. No. Who votes for suckers suckers. Maybe maybe I'm not giving anything away. All right. And who votes for the hairs. So in fact we're sort of equally split in this audience between hairs and suckers. Often you get to say that is it? Anyway, all right. So, Gordon, do you want to tell us how you do it? No, you don't. All right. All right. So let's see how he does it. Let's actually have a look under the microscope. So what we did is we found a microscopic image of the pores of a gecko. And we've got it over here. And look, when you actually look underneath the microscope at these pores of the of the gecko, this is really high magnification. You get this thing that looks a bit like sort of celery or kind of rhubarb. Now we zoom even further in. Yes, look, hairs, actually hairs on the end of sort of hairs. So hairs on hairs is what this gecko's pores are under the microscope. So this gecko has hairy hands. However lucrous that sounded, it is the truth. So that's really mad, isn't it? Okay, well look, before we go on, I'm just going to let Gordon go because he looks like he's kind of, yeah, he wants to have a bit of a rest, doesn't he? Can you say something about that? And say, yes. Thank you very much. Geckos climb up walls using hairy hands. Well, that hasn't told us anything, has it? I mean, that's how it works. But why does that work? And it's, you know, what's going on there? So I want to do a demo now, which is going to try and get that out. What's really going on here? And I'm going to need six. Can you believe it? I need six volunteers. And I need three boys, the strongest boys in the world, and three girls, the strongest girls in the world. Okay, so boy there, yes. And oh yeah, go on, the dog denier. And yes, that girl there, yes, go on, yes, you, yes, yes, you, yes. Okay, now, girl power versus boy power. Now what we've got here is two health and safety manuals, right? And if I sent that, so you're going to hold that rope, and you guys hold that rope, and you've got a bit of the rope. And you need to go in a line. You all, it's basically, all right, you're going to pull against each other. You ready? Now, two health and safety manuals, and all we've done with them is interleave the pages. There's no glue, there's no bolts or anything, just interleave the pages. And what I want you two groups to do is, is if you're strong enough to rip these apart, all right? And in doing so, humiliate, you guys, humiliate the boys by sort of pulling them across here. Can you guys, you know, girl power, boy power, right? Ready? Are you guys ready? Steady, go! Yes, and the girls are really holding the other boy. What's happening to this? What is happening to this? Come on, guys! Oh, I'm not ready! It's the foot, it's the foot! It's all right! Okay, okay, okay. Wow, that's a dead heat, I think. Well done, guys. Well done, guys. But also, what also won here, I think, was these books, right? Now, who, yes, I know, you're right.  and the alfinoid. Yes, they always win. I don't know. You have to get used to that. Now, look. Do you believe me that there's no glue here? Have a look at that. Okay? That's mad, isn't it? No glue, right? Just paper. No glue. So that's incredible, isn't it? It turns out that even though you guys are really strong, you would have to have two tanks pulling in opposite directions to pull this apart. Absolutely amazing, isn't it? Well, look, thanks a lot very much. Thanks. And you can go back to your seats. Thanks a lot, guys. Next time you're in a burning building, right? And you're thinking there's no way out. And you start going for the sheets and knotting them together. Don't do it. Get the telephone directories, all right? Who says yes? So look, how does that work? And how can that help us understand the gecko? Well, why is it such a strong force? Well, it turns out that what's keeping those pieces of paper together is this tiny molecular forces between the two sheets. And the forces are very small, but if you maximize them over lots of area, right? So if you can time the small force by a large area, you get a decent force. And by having every single piece of paper over each other, we actually managed to get a large area of interface there, didn't we? So can it be that the gecko is using the same idea to climb up walls? Well, what does a wall look like when it's magnified up? And here is, this is not a picture of the out, but it might be, right? This is what happens if you magnify a wall. It may look smooth to you, and you may run your finger across a wall or a surface. I think, well, that's quite smooth. But under the microscope, surfaces are very rough. They look like the mountains, right? So if you are touching something, so this is like, this is a massive me, right? This is what my thumb looks like. See, quite nicely groomed. And if I'm touching a wall and I'm trying to climb up it, I need to max, if I want to use the same force as with the book demo, I need to maximize my area of contact. So I try to do that. I'm pressing my finger in here, but you can see that actually all I ever do is I kind of just touch the tips of the mountains. And it's really very hard for me to do anything else. And so ultimately, I get very little contact with the wall in terms of area. And so I don't get any kind of help. And you know, it's also true of when you touch anything, you touch a surface, and you think you're touching it, you're mostly just touching the tips of mountains. We very rarely really touch things. But the gecko knows better, right? The gecko has hairy hands, right? So if we were to zoom in on the geckos, we've already seen that. It's got these amazing hairs. So look what the gecko does. The gecko gets onto the wall. The wall is rough, but that's no problem because the hairs get right down into the valleys, right? And you're maximizing an area of contact there. So even though there's no adhesive force in terms of glue or any kind of mechanical scratching, it's just the same force, these surface forces, which are tiny, but you maximize the area of contact and you can climb up walls. So well done, gecko, for working that one out. Because that's pretty impressive. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, you material scientists, why don't you just get on with it and make some gloves like a gecko's hand, hairy gloves, and then we can all just walk up walls and be Spider-Man, right? That's exactly what you're thinking. And well, it's not so far from the truth. So I've got here the latest sample from a lab in California, which is trying to do exactly that. It's just a prototype at the moment. And I just want to show you what it looks like under the microscope. So we go here and we look in. See, actually what they've done, they've engineered a material that is incredibly, has these like filaments. And when they're pressed against the wall, they bend and they make huge contact with that wall. And it just feels very smooth and flat. But you can just stick things onto it. It's a prototype. Okay. No, it does work, actually. There it is. Yes. So actually the future could be that we have these amazing gloves. But there is one problem with that future. And I want to show you that problem with that future with this enormous piece of blue tack. Because this stuff you know, and you're thinking blue tack, you're on. But it's actually as sophisticated as the ghetto's foot because it works in the same way. You take a small piece of blue tack, and this stuff is not sticky. It's not adhesive in it. You could infinitely reuse this stuff. It's not like a piece of cellotape, right? A sticky tape where actually after a while it just gets full of, it loses its stick. So how does that work? Well, it's the same as the ghetto's foot. It's a material that becomes liquid when you put pressure on it. And that liquid flows into the mountains, the rough mountains of this surface. And then it maximizes the area of contact, uses the same adhesive forces, these surface weaker surface forces, and sticks. You use this all the time. And it's the same as a ghetto's. So that's fantastic. And then you think, well, okay, I'm just going to go home and I'm going to just cover myself in blue tack. I know you, I know you guys. But don't do it because from what you've learned tonight, you already know there's a problem, right? Which is that although the adhesive force goes up, if your volume isn't matching that force, if your volume is going up quicker, then it's going to override it. So if you try and just stick this whole piece of blue tack and putting pressure on it, I'm doing all the adhesive stuff, but this volume is very large, isn't it? So the force downwards is too big for that adhesive force. Okay, so it's not an accident that ghetto's are small, right? Because they got low weight. And it's all about this ratio, the surface to volume ratio. So we need something even better than ghetto's in order for us to be like Spider-Man. But I think we can do it. It's just a matter of time. Okay. So, fantastic. Now look, it's not, it's, it's, it's surface to volume ratio and I will keep going on about it. But it really is absolutely crucial to your life. And no more so than this demo is going to show you. So this here, I've got a model and it's a model of my lungs. Okay. This is what my lungs look like. I'm going to put it exactly, okay. There we go. There we go. Ha-ha. Now, I'm breathing in and this is exactly what my lungs, the right size for me. So air is coming into these lungs. Now, would you believe that this is big enough? Probably not. When you're breathing in now, you're breathing in a large volume of air. So if we all breathe in now, we're all breathing stuff into this kind of structure. Now, at that moment, breathe out everyone, don't want you all fainting, at that moment you breathe in, your body has to extract all the oxygen it needs to be alive, right? So it's taking oxygen from a large volume and it has to get into the blood vessels, which is a large area. So basically it has to find a way of interfacing that large volume of air into all the blood vessels. It does this by making these tiny little sacs, these alveoli sacs. And it spreads of all ends in a kind of finagry way. And it's just like with the hamster, right? As you get smaller, these little sacs are like spheres. As they get smaller, their area in proportion to their volume gets larger and larger and larger. And that's exactly what you want. You want a large area to interface with the oxygen, right? Get the oxygen into your blood and to get the carbon dioxide out of your blood. So it's your own body is using the surface of volume ratio to actually just let you live. And I want to show you how big this area is that you need to live. Because you can't really sit here because you're seeing it as a volume, right? But if you spread all these out onto a sheet, how big would that sheet be? Well, let me show you how big that sheet would be. Okay, we've got it here. All right, now I'm going to take this up. Am I? Yes. And I'm going to let, I'm going to, basically I'm going to try and spread this sheet out. This is a piece of silk that's the same area as my lungs. Would you believe it? It's, it's just inconceivable, isn't it? That all of this area could be inside your body. And I want you to pass this around. Is that possible? Yes. It's quite a nice experience bringing my lungs, isn't it? Okay, keep going, guys. Keep going. Keep going. All right. So you guys, let go. Let it go. Let it go. My lungs, ladies and gentlemen, there's a small hole. The only way to use a small hole, that's where I used to smoke. And essentially that is what happens when you smoke. Your, your lung area gets smaller and smaller. And so you get out of breath. So if you get out of breath and you have lung disease, you get a smaller area in which to absorb oxygen. And that's, that's, that's the problem. So maximizing your area of your lungs is, is incredibly important to you. So, so this whole thing is incredible. Surface to volume ratio, right? Area to volume ratio is, is so important to you. It can help you survive jumping off a building, right? It can help geckos climb up walls. It can do all sorts of things. It's really integral to how you breathe and live. But it does something even more important than that, right? It can, it can determine whether you can dance or not. You're dancing. You're from Strictly Come Dancing, aren't you? Well, with the choreographers of the show, yes. And, and what are your names? Chris Marcus. Chris Marcus. Jacqueline Spencer. Oh, fantastic. You dance so brilliantly. I'm so envious. And in fact, I made some notes. And I, I just wanted to run these past you because I kind of, I've come up with three rules having watched you about what you need to be able to do to dance. And I'll run them past you. You don't mind. You can sort of critique them and see if I'm on the right track so that I can dance like you. All right, go ahead. All right. So one of the rules they'll do is just to be able to stand. It turns out that I mean, you're standing now. And if you couldn't do that, that would be difficult, wouldn't it? So that seems a prerequisite, doesn't it? You've got to be able to stand. And then I noticed that you kind of, you were sort of jumping from foot to foot and there was kind of jigging around and stuff like that. And that seems to me quite a lot of strength in your legs you needed. Yeah, you need to be able to kind of move your weight, weight transfer in general is very important, obviously, to dancing. Yes. Okay. So, and, and you had to kind of be strong enough to pick up your partner. That's also weight in the legs, isn't it? Yes. And it's the legs, but very often you find out the whole tall in the body. So standing up, strength, jumping. If I can do those things, I can dance. Well, yes, with a bit of breath. Well, look, I'm going to, I'm going to work on those rules for a bit now and then we're going to come back to you at the end. But before you go, I just want to get the scores. Now. Ten. Ten. Ten. Run it off! Okay. So, now look, standing. That doesn't seem too hard, does it? But is it? Is it so simple as that? So I'm back to spherical animals because I'm, you know, basically, if you ask a physicist to do anything, they'll end up starting with a sphere. And so my model for an animal is a sphere, but this time legs. That's a step forward, isn't it? Literally. Okay. So, now, I've got a spherical animal. Now, all of its weight, right, has got to go through its legs. Okay? So that means that these legs are like the pillars of a building, right? All of the force is coming through them. So the area, that cross-sectional area of those legs is what's, is what's taking all the weight through there. So if that's small, then there might not be enough. It, it, it got to be strong enough to support this whole weight. Okay? So if I take this animal, all of its weight's going through its legs and it's standing on its own feet, right? It's got four legs, fantastic. Now, what happens when I size it up, right? I scale it up and increase its width by two. So this is an animal exactly twice as big in proportions. So that means, as we know, that its volume has increased by eight times. So that means its weight has increased by eight times. But that would be fine if the area of its legs had increased by eight times. Then it would be exactly the same. But has, has the area of its legs increased? What do you think? No. No, it hasn't. Because this area, this cross-sectional area, has only got four times bigger because of this whole problem. When you size things up, the surface-to-area ratio changes. So this, every one of the legs of this animal has twice as much force running through it. And that means that it can't actually stand up, right? So the thing is, you can't just keep getting bigger as an animal and not change your design because sooner or later you will collapse under your own weight. Now, you think this is, you know, you don't think that this kind of happens, but actually this is what happens with elephants, right? Now, this is an elephant's leg of a juvenile from India. It's about six or seven years old. And you can already see, and we know this, don't we, that the ratios of the bones and the thickness of the bones have changed because this is the way out of the problem. If you change the ratios, if you make thicker legs, then you can support bigger weights. And that's what elephants do. They get their, they make their bones bigger, they make their legs bigger because they actually are in trouble if they don't do that. So, I mean, Galileo recognized this very early on and people have noticed this ever since. And in fact, if you look at elephants, you can immediately see it proportionately. They have much thicker legs and they need it. Otherwise, they start to get into trouble with their kind of ability to hold up their legs. And if you look at big, even bigger things like dinosaurs, they have really fat legs, don't they? And it's not a style choice, okay? What's the problem with having bigger, thicker legs? Surely that should make them stronger. So, we thought, well, if we're going to talk about this, let's just get the strongest person we know and ask them. And here he is. This is the strongest person I know and he is strong. Hello. So, what's your name? My name's Terry Hollands. And what are your strength credentials just so we can all? I've been England's strongest man, UK's strongest man, Britain's strongest man and the five-time finalist, the world's strongest man. So, you say that? Can you just give us a demonstration of exactly how strong you are? Yeah, sure. I lifted these weights earlier. I just thought, well, you know, as a test, I might try and see if you can lift them too. Do you think you can have a go at that? Yeah, sure. Did you see the bar bending? That bar, which is about an inch thick steel bent? Absolutely amazing. I am so impressed. So, I want to just get a feel for how much that is compared to your weight. Do you mind me asking how heavy you are? Sure, I'm 180 kilos. You're 180 kilos and what did you just lift here? I mean, this is... That's 380 kilos. 380 kilos. So, that means that you lifted a bit more than twice your own weight. Yeah. I mean, that's like a small car, isn't it? Yeah, pretty much a small car. Could you lift a small car? Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Now, so this business about you, so basically you being able to lift twice your own weight, is that... Is there anyone who can lift, let's say, five times their own weight? Maybe not five times, but some of the lighter guys, generally the bigger you are, the less number of times you can lift your own body weight, basically. The lighter guys will be lifting free, maybe three and a half times their weight, the heavier guys will be just over two. Absolutely fascinating. I'm really, really so happy that you could come on the show and thank you very much for showing us all. Right. Thank you very much. Wow. Okay, so that was very interesting there, right? If you want to be able to be strong per weight, right? If you want to be able to lift many times your own weight, well, it turns out you need to be small. And we've got the world champions at this and they turn out to be very small. And I'd like to introduce... What's your name? My name is Karen Wall. Karen Wall. I am a PhD student at Cambridge University at the moment. Oh, welcome. And I do actually study how ants are managed to carry large loads. Right, so it's ants who are the world champions at lifting many times their own weight. Now, just talk us through this. So what kind of ants are these? So these are basically leaf cutting ants, basically. This one. Look at that. It's amazing. And it's like... He's showing off, isn't he? He's showing off, yeah. He knows the cameras are on, doesn't he? Okay, well, are they going to mind if we pick them up? Are they going to get really annoyed? I mean, carried it at five. I was carrying my sofa upstairs. He might drop it, but he might be all right with it. Let's see. Some giant picked me up just to weigh me. All right. All right. Brilliant. Okay. Nice one. It doesn't look too annoyed. Still got its sofa. So now we are on 20.5 milligrams. Okay. 20.5 milligrams together. Now, can we get just the ants on his own? Is that how... Yeah. Try. He might get a bit angry there. Okay, all right. Try to get him up. They don't like leaving this fragment. If you put the fragment where he wants to it, does he get pleased? Is he going to go, oh, thanks. No, I don't think so. No, he doesn't say. Still getting angry. Okay, okay. Fair enough. All right. So put them back on the scale. It's just the ant now. So we had 20.7 beforehand. And now we have four. Yes. Four or 4.9. So that's about... He was carrying about four or five times his own weight. Yeah. Four or five times. So the equivalent of even more weights than that. And they can even do more. Like they can go up to about 10 times. And that you might have seen, he's been able to carry it whereas the weight lifter, he couldn't move anymore. Don't diss the weight lifter. He's still here. All right. Okay. So thank you very much. I mean, that's absolutely wonderful. Thank you for kind of bringing him to see us. So the reason why ants are so super strong or seem so super strong is because they're so small that they need almost no muscles in their legs to hold them up because they haven't got much volume. They haven't got much weight. So almost all their muscle is available for carrying things. And that's just true of everything. The smaller you get, the more muscle you have for carrying. So the smaller you get, the stronger you get per weight. But there's another animal that's even better than ants at doing something else. And that's jumping. And we realized that before, didn't we, that we have to jump to also be a great dancer. And so it turns out that this is also something you can do much better if you're small. Now I want to introduce you to a very special guest. My name's Tim. Yeah. Yeah. And I've got the only genuine flee circus in the UK. Wow. So are we actually going to see some fleas being brought some performers with me? First of all, we're going to have a demonstration of flea jumping. These are untethered and untrained fleas. But they won't get out this. No, hopefully not. Fingers crossed. No. We try. We don't worry guys. We checked this earlier and there's no way they can get out of here. This is like cold hits for fleas. So we're going to stick one of the fleas on top of the diving board, which is just here. Whoa. Oh, there it goes. Oh, where did it go? There it is. Look at that. How much did it jump? That's incredible. That's about 30 centimeters, I think. Wow. Look, we recorded something earlier about flea jumping. I just want to show that on this because it's really amazing to see them jumping. I think, yes, here we go. Now look at them. He's ready to jump. He's ready to jump. And then off he goes. He comes behind here somewhere. No. But that's absolutely amazing. So they can jump. How far can they jump? They can jump. These fleas are about 30 centimeters. So several hundred times their own body length. So that would be like me jumping to the top of Big Bend. Right? Absolutely. You could clear Big Bend. Clear it. So we wouldn't need stairs, lifts. Nothing. If we were fleas. Absolutely. And they basically, they're so good. They, they spend their whole time mucking about in the circus. Do they? Do they enjoy, I mean, do you have a relationship with these fleas? How do you feed them? Well, like the old flea circus owner said, I live off them and they live off me. They, they've, they've, they suck your blood. I roll at my sleeves and take my team. That's amazing, isn't it? That is love. That is love. So I'm really glad that you look after these fleas. So what, you know, on the circus performing front, what can we see? Are they up for it? The performer I brought today is Fifi, Fifi the flea and Fifi is a juggling flea. Oh, there she goes. No, that's amazing. Oh, that's amazing. Oh, oh, oh. That's it. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. It's a great, it was a great pleasure meeting you and meeting your fleas and seeing how far they can jump. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you. So we talked about what, how, what you had to do to be able to, to dance. It turned out you had to be able to stand on your own feet. You had to be able to be strong enough in your legs and have quite a lot of explosive power and you had to be able to jump. And as you've seen, it basically is easier to do all of those things the smaller you get. The smaller you get, the stronger you get. The higher you can jump, the more you can climb up walls and everything. It's so incredibly great being small. But the other, the other way around is also true and, and sort of depressing, isn't it? It means the bigger you get, the higher all those things get and so the harder it's going to be to dance. So what we thought we'd do is that we'd turn me into an elephant and just to show you exactly how hard it is for a big thing like an elephant to dance. Now, oh yeah, let me give you my jacket. So made some trousers. What, what someone has done that seems just has done is they've sewed sand into these things. So not just heavy at the bottom, they're heavy all the way down and they kind of, they, they, it's so heavy that I can't actually get up. But let me just try. Okay, I'm slight, right. It's actually funny, just standing up in these is exhausting. It's so heavy, so much weight I'm having to carry and it's quite hard to move your legs. But I'm still going to give it a go at dancing because maybe even despite all these problems of being big elephants, maybe, maybe they can dance. Let's just try it, shall we? Okay. I'm going to handle it. Okay. And keep going. Okay. Yes. This one forward. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. I think it's exhausting. Well, thanks very much for trying, guys. But I really think it's hopeless. Never mind. Thank you. See you in a bit. All the way to the selector. It looks like it's really great being small. And so maybe you're getting a bit depressed because you're thinking, well, I'm too big. So I want to kind to end by telling you some good things about being big. And I want to do that by bringing on Hamish the hamster and Sweep the dog because, oh, here they are. Hamish, did you enjoy the show? Yes. Yes, hello, Hamish. How are you doing? Now, the thing is that all mammals have the same kind of heart. It's designed the same way. So, Hamish has got the same kind of heart as me. So has Sweep the dog and even elephants, right? And it turns out that those hearts will only beat for a certain number of heartbeats until they give up. And do you know how many heartbeats that is? One billion. That's what you've got. One billion heartbeats. That's what Hamish has got. That's what Sweep's got, right? So, now, heartbeats. Let's listen to some heartbeats because that is not all the same, are they? It actually varies with size. So, if I listen to Hamish's heartbeats, will you, are you all right, Hamish? Let me just do that. Oh, it's so fast. It's really, really fast. And now, if I listen to Sweep's heartbeats, yeah, it's fast too. Not as fast. And my heartbeats is slower still. Yes, very great. Yes, calm. No, not really. So, that's the funny thing is that the bigger you are, the slower your heartbeats and the smaller you are, the faster your heartbeats. But if we all have the same number of heartbeats, which we do, that means that smaller things live less long, right? Because they use up their heartbeats quicker. So, Hamsters live for two years, dogs live for between 10 and 14 years, and we rather triumphantly live 70, 80, 90 years, which is a great thing to think about. So, in a way, kind of all evens up, isn't it? If you're small, you get to jump, be hugely strong, climb up walls, jump off buildings. If you're large, you get to look at all that and live a long life. So, I hope you've enjoyed this. I hope you realize that size really does matter. It matters for you. And thank you and good night.

=== FILE: How engineers can crack science's toughest mysteries - with Shini Somara [qpN-KaW2LT4].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to scientific questions. Thank you for coming. This question has been on my mind for a while because as a mechanical engineer originally, I've had all kinds of experiences in the industry and a lot of my experiences have shaped my career direction because when I first graduated from Brunau University with my undergraduate degree, I then decided to do an engineering doctorate in computational fluid dynamics, as was said, and I decided to do that engineering doctorate in industry. So it was a PhD that was based within industry, so basically a glorified apprenticeship for advanced research. And when I was in industry doing this doctorate, which took me four and a half years, I really saw a lack of people that looked like me and very few women, and I just couldn't understand why that was. So one of the things I really wanted to do was tell people about engineering, about how cool it is and how fun it is, and just a really exciting industry and how anyone can be in the industry. So one of the ways that I pursued this desire to spread the word about engineering was through media because it's the biggest platform, right? Television reaches so many people. So I must say when I came out of my doctorate, I was very shy, very introverted, and so I had to build up communication skills, and it took me absolute years. You never would have seen me do this several years ago, that's for sure. But communication was really important, and learning to package engineering in an interesting way that was engaging for a wide audience was really important for communicating engineering. And one of the ways that I found, one of the sort of ways to communicate engineering was through storytelling and people's experiences. So I ended up writing a book called Engineers Making a Difference. So Engineers Making a Difference is a project that is very dear to my heart. It took many years for someone to actually back me on the idea of writing a book like this because making a difference, what does that really mean? You know, for years before COVID and all these very kind of unusual experiences, no one really wanted to hear about the do-good side of engineering. So to convince anyone to back me on a book called Engineers Making a Difference wasn't easy, but eventually Imperial College London and the Gatsby Foundation said, we will back you on writing this book. So my book contains 46 engineers across 12 different engineering sectors from health to transportation, food, beyond our earth, all these different areas of engineering. And I talk about their personal journeys into engineering because even though I took a very academic route into engineering, that's not the only way into the industry. And there are many more exciting ways, technicianships, apprenticeships, that kind of thing. And it's been so inspiring hearing from lots of different engineers. So that book came out in March 2023. And it was donated to every single secondary state school in the country, so 16,000 copies went out for free. And the reason why Gatsby and Imperial College and I wanted to do that is because engineering is not taught in schools. So over my career, I've had to talk about the skills gap in engineering, the lack of diversity, all these kinds of problems we have in the industry. And yet it's not taught in schools. That just made no sense to me. So this book aims to plug that gap to introduce people to engineering at a young age to show just how varied and diverse the industry is. And then this summer, I finished writing, scientists making a difference. It's in grey because we haven't yet chosen the front cover, the colour of it yet. And it's just been sent off to the printers. And when I was interviewing for scientists making a difference, same concept, finding out about different scientists journeys through technicianships and apprenticeships and university routes, it was not so easy to interview them because I must be an engineer through and through. I mean, if you look at my family tree, there are many engineers in the family, my dad's an engineer, it's probably the reason why I followed in his footsteps. And talking to scientists and finding out about the skills gap, I kept wanting to ask them, you know, so what's the solution? And it made me realise in writing scientists making a difference that actually there's a clear distinction between engineers and scientists. So the distinction is that whenever we ask questions, engineers want to find a solution and an answer. And whenever scientists ask questions, they answer a question with more questions. So it's this kind of perpetual curiosity of scientists, whereas engineers just want to build something and make something and come up with an answer. So I've had to really, every time I was talking to scientists, I had to say, I had to sort of like not ask them, so what's the outcome of your research and just let them enjoy experimentation and following their curiosity. So just out of interest, how many people would identify with being an engineer in the audience? Hands up. Okay, a few. How many people would identify as being scientists or scientifically inclined? Okay, I think that's more hands. Yeah, so more scientists in the audience than engineers. Well, that makes sense because here at the RI, we're in an institution that has 200 years of fantastic science talks. And it's quite intimidating doing a talk as an engineer in a space like this because the history of scientists that have spoken here is really impressive. I was looking at the roster of people that have been speaking over the years, and I picked out a few people that were my favorites. And actually the three people or four people that I picked out all had something in common. And I'm sure all of the speakers here have had these same characteristics in common, which is that they all had this insatiable curiosity. And they all had this absolute wonder for the world around them and an awe for the way things work and really trying to understand how things work. So probably the person that is most iconic here, there's a museum downstairs of Michael Faraday. He was the first person to do the Christmas lectures here, which are really famous. And Michael Faraday was responsible for discovering the electric motor, the electric generator, the transformer, all of which form the foundation of our modern civilization. Because without these three components, we wouldn't have power grids . We just wouldn't have the kind of modern day living that we have today. I mean, I don't know about you, but I definitely cannot live without electricity. It would be really uncomfortable to put it that way. But Michael Faraday was one of these people that was very instinctive. He said, nothing is too wonderful to be true if it be consistent with the laws of nature. And I interpret that as meaning that he just really wanted to harmonize with nature. He wanted to find out all about nature and then build and invent things that sort of worked with nature, which is how he came up with these three components as well as many other things. And what's incredible about Michael Faraday is that he actually is self taught. So he did an apprenticeship in book binding. And he, instead of book binding, he was actually reading the books that he was meant to be binding and taught himself physics and chemistry. And that's how he learned the laws of nature, just through pure, sheer fascination for the world around him. Then Carl Sagan, an astronomer, again, someone, if you ever see his lectures on YouTube, you know, he just brings astronomy to life. And I think that one of the key ways that he did that was to really personalize the universe. To me, as an engineer, I like nuts and bolts and just things that I can touch and build and make. Whereas he really brought something that is so unreachable, untouchable, almost to us, he personalized it. And he had a quote, we are made of star stuff. And it's true. The ingredients in our human bodies are the same as the ingredients in stars. So it's kind of like this lovely mirror image of the universe and ourselves. He also looked at that photo of the pale blue dot that was taken by Voyager 1 in the year. It was the 14th of February, 1990, Voyager 1 took the picture of the pale blue dot. I don't know if you can see that little dot just right there. And he said of the pale blue dot, look again at that dot. That's here. That's home. That's us. And that was a picture of Earth from 3.7 billion miles away. And it was just, he really brought some compassion to science. He really loved astronomy. He was so humbled by the universe. And I don't know, it wasn't just an intellectual pursuit when it came to science. He almost made science spiritual and human. And then another person that spoke here was David Attenborough. Now, I grew up with David Attenborough. I think there are very few people that haven't because he is, you know, a century old. And everyone, you know, I was just thinking when I was writing this quote, I was just hearing him say it and there's something about his voice. I wish I had a clip actually of his voice. It's so warm and so you can just hear the absolute passion he has for nature. Now, he studied natural sciences at Cambridge, but he doesn't call himself a scientist. He calls himself a naturalist. And he said, no one will protect what they don't care about and no one will care about what they have never experienced. And he literally did bring nature into our lounges or wherever your TV is. And just again gave us that connection with our planet. I think everyone knows at least one clip from one of his series, whether it's Life on Earth, Blue Planet, all of these amazing documentaries. And he made us connect with different species and relate. And I just love his work and he spoke here. Then someone who I didn't actually know about is Susan Greenfield, a neuroscientist that did the first ever Christmas lectures presented by women in 1994. And she did a electrical journey to the centre of the brain. And what she did was really personalise neuroscience. So she wanted people to feel at home inside their own minds, which was quite avant-garde for her time. She said science isn't about knowing everything. It's about being excited by what we don't yet understand. Now, this is something that is not taught in schools. It's definitely not something that I was educated with, that getting things wrong, failure, is actually okay. We can learn a lot from failure. I really learn that in engineering. Anything that goes wrong, obviously we don't want things to go wrong, but anything that does go wrong, as long as we learn from it, they are not considered to be failures. And this idea of getting excited about what we don't know just fuels that curiosity that we should have as scientists. And sometimes I think the educational system is so stressed, they want to teach us so much that there isn't really time or space for getting things wrong. And so I love the fact that Susan Greenfield really instilled that idea that you can embrace uncertainty and you can embrace curiosity and it's okay to admit when you don't know something. So over to you for a second, so I can have a bit of a break. I just want you to tell me what you think engineering is. Let's do a bit of data science. If you point your smartphones towards the QR code, you'll be able to participate in a poll. Just give me some ideas of what you think engineering is, just some buzzwords, whatever springs to mind, you can't go wrong with this. I'm just really curious to see what you as an audience think engineering is. And we're going to switch to the slide. So building, solving problems, problem solving, my favorite. Machines, making things. I think the larger the text, the more people have said it. So we're scaling up here. Lovely. Lovely, lovely. Physical solutions, yeah. Building something. Creativity, yes. Using maths and physics to fix problems, brilliant design, knowledge, difficult. Making ideas happen. Thinking, systems, fantastic. I love the fact that problem solving is in big bold letters. So problem solving, solving problems, perfect. So that just leads ingenuity, love that word. So I thought, I was hoping you would come up with this. Engineers are problem solvers. That's exactly what we are. And we want to create solutions. And when I first went into engineering as a mechanical engineer, I wanted to solve problems of fluid dynamics. And I'll explain more about my doctoral research later on. But I have always at my heart wanted to solve problems. And the problems that I try to solve today within engineering are very different from my fluid dynamics days. And I will also get on to that. But just have that thought that if we only had scientists, we would ask brilliant questions. We would have awe inspiring theories. But we would have no way without engineers of observing, measuring or managing the world. Engineers really build the instruments that scientists use. So engineers and scientists really have a collaborative partnership. We just can't have one without the other. So what questions have scientists been asking? And what engineering has come out of that? Now, I have a lot of slides looking at the engineering. But before I get on to those, the actual questions we've been asking have really evolved through the ages. So from ancient times to the Renaissance, we were asking basic questions like, what is this? How does this work? So we were asking things like, why does the sun rise and set? What are stars made of? How do plants grow? And how do we change cheap metals into expensive metals? The first alchemists were really the first chemists. So we were asking really, really basic questions to try and understand more about the world around us. Then we move on to the Industrial Revolution and the Enlightenment Age. And it then became about how do we apply all of this knowledge that we've acquired to really sort of improve our lifestyles, to measure nature, to describe nature, to improve life, to be industrious. So we were asking questions during that time of how do we harness steam to power machines? How do we generate electricity? And how do we use electricity? How can chemistry create new materials? So you can see that evolution of questions. Then we get to, so it was really about mastering nature for human benefit and progress. Then we get to the 20th century, and then we kind of turn inwards. We start looking into the atom. We start probing the fundamental building blocks of life and our universe. And we start asking questions like, what exactly is inside the atom? How does DNA carry information? How can we control disease? And how can we harness energy? And so as a result, engineers ended up building the most incredible machines. And I'm going to zip through a few of my favourites. It's a long list, and this was like my short list, because there's just so many amazing inventions. So first one, the Hubble Space Telescope. Let me tell you a few facts about this amazing piece of engineering. Right. So it has worked for three decades in one of the most harshest environments of Earth's orbit. It's orbiting at a speed of 17,000 miles per hour. And this job is to capture images of the galaxy, which are billions of light years away. It's got a 2.4 metre main mirror, which is polished to the utmost incredible accuracy, because any flaws would just skew all of the images that are coming back to Earth. But it's a telescope that was built to be serviced by astronauts. So it was sent out knowing that we were going to have to send astronauts up to it to tinker with it, change different parts of it, like the gyroscopes, the computers, the cameras, and even the power systems. I mean, over 30 years, technology has really changed, and so astronauts have been updating it over time. And in that time, it has had to withstand extreme temperature swings from minus 150 degrees C all the way up to 120 degrees C. And that's every 90 minutes as it moves, whizzes through from sunlight into Earth's shadow. So the amount of mechanical stress that's on the Hubble Space Telescope, and it's still functioning really well. In fact, what it can do is lock onto a target and stay steady to within 0.007 arc seconds, which translated means that it can fix on, say, a coin that is 200 miles away. That's how accurate it can take these pictures. It's been orbiting, it's done 35,000 orbits. That's 1.5 billion miles of traveling. And its original computer had less power in it than our smartphones. So this is one impressive machine. It's inspired so many other technologies here on Earth. So because of the Hubble Space Telescope, we now have better cameras, obviously, I hope so, if it can do all that out in space, we now have better cameras here on Earth, better imaging devices, better medical technologies, navigation, robotics, electronics, you name it, materials. All of that has been inspired by trying to build this telescope. And as a result of Hubble being out there, it has helped us calculate the Hubble constant, which confirms that the universe is about 13.8 billion years old. So it's brought us that information. There's also the James Webb Space Telescope, which has been built completely differently. First of all, it's got a sun shield on it that is 6.5 meters of foldable mirror. And that's basically the size of a tennis court, right? But it wasn't built to be serviced. So once it was sent out 1.5 million kilometers away from Earth and subjected to near absolute zero temperatures, it just had to stay there and it just had to function. And there are hundreds of moving parts, ultra sensitive infrared instruments. I mean, this is precision engineering at its best. Now, Hubble is the eyes on our universe, and it actually works in the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum. So pretty much everything we can see with our own eyes, the Hubble Space Telescope can see. But the James Webb Telescope is actually more of a time machine, so it can peer deep into space and go further back in time than any telescope before it. And it really reveals how the first stars and galaxies were formed. And it works on infrared, so different kind of technology. The next amazing feat of engineering is the Large Hadron Collider. So CERN, which is based in Geneva. It's 27 kilometers of track where we accelerate particles. I'm sure you've all heard of it, right? It's probably one of the most complex machines we have ever built so far. And it's designed to accelerate particles to 99.99, lots of nines of the speed of light. And essentially what it does is it smashes atoms together. And if two cars were smashed together, all the bits would fall out on the collision. And scientists want to look at all the bits and try and find what atoms are made of. And as a result of CERN, we discovered the Higgs boson, which is a particle that basically confirms how particles gain mass. So some people call it the God particle. And I'll actually let you into a story. I went to CERN as part of the promotion of Engineers Making a Difference, that book that I was telling you about. Let me give you a little sneak peek of the video that I made. We're here at CERN! And I cannot tell you how excited I am. I'm going to be meeting Jamie Pinnell today and he's going to be telling me how engineering meets visits. And he's going to Atlas, an experiment that happened. I just can't wait. So this is on YouTube and you're free to access this video. The reason I want to tell you about this is because when I got the opportunity to go to CERN, I felt a bit guilty because I was going to interview an apprentice engineer at CERN. And the reason why I felt guilty is because I've always had in my head, I don't know how this got in my head, but I've always considered CERN to be a place for Nobel Prize-winning physicists and physics and physicists and physics. And I was like, I'm going there because of engineering. This is really, I don't know, I feel a bit guilty about this. And when I got there, I was expecting to see all these people with big brains walking around, like all these eminent scientists. And I did, I did see that. But when I talked to Jamie Pinnell, who's doing an apprenticeship at CERN, and when I saw his passion for how he maintains Atlas and all the other engineers that put their life and soul into making these incredible instruments, I was humbled. And when I talked to physicists at CERN, they said, you know what, we have all these amazing ideas of the experiments we want to do, the questions we want to ask, the theories we come up with, but none of this would be possible if it wasn't for the engineers. Engineers are what make CERN. You know what, all those guilty feelings of going to CERN under the guise of engineering just melted away, because it's true. What they have built there is absolutely astonishing, and it's all down to the engineers. And again, it's about collaboration, because the scientists will say, we really need an experiment that does this. Can you go and build it for us? So, engineers go off and design and build and test and iterate all the things that engineers are taught to do. So CERN really is a collaboration between engineers and scientists. Another great feat of engineering is the human genome sequencer. So, biology is really not my wheelhouse. It's a feat of engineering in the sense that it reveals the deepest secrets of life. It works using a combination of microfluidics, lasers, robotics, powerful computing to turn biology into high-speed, high-precision engineering. Now, they don't look very interesting, but as a result of machines like this, we are able to understand the genetic blueprint, what our DNA reveals, what the coding in DNA reveals. I mean, it's really given us a detailed map of the human body as a result of working very closely with the human genome project. And it's really designed to decode 3 million...  in base pairs of human DNA. There's also MRI and CT scanners. Again, using physics, magnetism to see inside the human body, it's allowed us to answer questions about anatomy, disease, how the brain functions all in non-invasive ways. And it's revolutionized medical diagnostics and even surgery. Then there's nuclear fusion. We haven't quite cracked it, but we are certainly closer than we've ever been to recreating what happens on the sun here on Earth. Think about that. What happens on the sun requires a huge amount of gravity, temperature, pressure, loads of helium, fusing together, hydrogen, all these ingredients. And we're trying to do that. What happens out there on the sun here on Earth, that's nuclear fusion. And there have been incredible attempts to build Tokamax, create plasma. And I was an Oxford scientific, no, first light fusion in Oxford, a company that basically has been inspired by the punching crab. Because apparently the punching crab punches at certain pressure and creates a spark with their punch. And that spark blinds whoever, the creatures they're trying to protect themselves against. And an engineer learned about the punching crab and this incredible force at which it punches and creates this plasma and thought, that's nuclear fusion. And so basically recreated the conditions of the punching crab at the depths of the sea, pressure, temperature, all these things. And it's trying to create nuclear fusion that way. But there's also ETA, an experiment in nuclear fusion. And we are, we're almost there, we're almost there. Then there's the deep sea submersible, Alvin. So Alvin can take a few passengers and you can be down at depths of 4,500 meters, which is 14,800 feet. Some planes don't even fly at that. So Alvin can go to incredible depths of the ocean. Normally with something like that, it would crush. So the amount of engineering that is involved in just keeping everything safe and self-contained, you can be down there in a dive for six to 10 hours and you've got emergency life support, supplies should something go wrong, people could sustain themselves for 72 hours at those depths. But the engineering involved to actually create that is astonishing. It's got robotic arms, it's got cameras, it's got sensors, and it can hover over hydrothermal vents and shipwrecks and deep sea trenches. It really reveals so much about our planet and it's incredible to know that we actually know more about Mars and the moon than we do our own oceans. So pieces of engineering like this are crucial for understanding our planet. Then we have Earth-observing satellites. So these really are our eyes on our planet and at this time of incredible climatic changes, it's so important to just keep an eye on the way things are changing, monitoring natural disasters, earthquakes and floods. I was recently in Santorini and there was news earlier this year about how there were earthquake risks. And I was just, I was put it this way, these satellites and providing data really calm me down because they monitor our planet, they look at data, any sort of warnings about earthquakes and things like that is supplied by technology like this. And the information we have about upcoming earthquake risks and things like that is the best we will ever know for now. So the technology that has been developed is the best of our ability and so hopefully we can still develop these technologies. I actually emailed, when I was in Santorini, I emailed an earthquake engineer just saying, am I safe here? Because I wasn't quite sure. And thanks to his knowledge, he was like, don't worry, it's fine. There were a few tremors earlier on in the year, but things have subsided now and so you're safe, don't worry. So as a result of these kinds of technologies like the International Space Station, satellites, all these things, we have developed water purification systems, air filtration systems, space suits for the International Space Station have informed us about creating firefighting suits, hazardous material suits, sports, outdoor gear, insulation layers, medical prosthetics, mobility devices. Has anyone seen the exoskeletons? Where people can actually, those who are in wheelchairs, can actually wear exoskeletons that support their body and allow them to walk. I mean, incredible technologies as a result of space technological advancements. And again, with missions like the Apollo and Artemis, like material science, cars, aeroplanes, protective gear, GPS, weather forecasting, communications, earth imaging, robotics, I mean, the list goes on as a result of all of these incredible technologies. So just a bit more about my own engineering journey. So as I said earlier, I'm a mechanical engineer and with mechanical engineering, you are very much concerned with machine development, whether that's planes, trains, automobiles, thermodynamics, I mean, mechanical engineers learn about how fridges work, ventilation systems, and my dad is a building services engineer. So I kind of had to slash wanted to go into building services engineering following the footsteps of my dad. And actually, I must say that during my mechanical engineering days, I really loved the fact that mathematical equations could predict what is normally invisible to us. It's called computational fluid dynamics. Fluids are anything that flow gases and liquids, but most fluids are invisible to us. So looking at how air moves, it's not easy because you just can't see it. But on a computer screen, using algorithms and all of the knowledge of Bernoulli, his equations on temperature and pressure and conservation of mass and momentum, he came up with algorithms that we then use for computer algorithms to simulate how gases and liquids flow. So that's what my PhD was on. It was all about looking at how air behaves in the air. How it behaves in buildings. Now, granted, this is not the sexiest of fluid dynamics looking at air and buildings. Fluid dynamics can also be used to model Formula One cars, way more sexy, or could be used to look at how air travels over the wings of an aircraft. And it's so useful to engineers because by understanding fluid dynamics, you can optimize design. You can therefore reduce the amount of fuel you're using, particularly when it comes to aircraft. And it's just a really great tool for engineers. And when I was doing my doctorate, bearing in mind that, my doctorate took me four and a half years and I finished in 2004. So this is 21 years ago. I am that old. So computational fluid dynamics isn't what it is today. Back then, 21 years ago, CFD, computational fluid dynamics, was basically a tool where you could take a snapshot image. So it was like taking a photo of the fluid dynamics in a room. So this photo on the side here is showing the fluid dynamics in an office space. And photos are good and useful, but they're not really realistic. What you want is something dynamic. This is a steady state analysis. This is a static analysis, a photo. And engineers really want to know how things change with time. What happens if more people enter the office? What happens if someone opens a window? What happens if they switch the ventilation up or down? How does that change the fluid dynamics in a room? And this is all to optimize the fluid dynamics in the space. So my PhD was looking at how do we solve all of those complicated Bernoulli equations on a computer where you have to look at various aspects, the scientific questions. Like how do you solve fluid dynamic equations over building material? It takes so long for heat to move through a building envelope, but it's almost instantaneous to calculate how air behaves in a space. So one is a heavy material, one is instantaneous reaction. Air is an instantaneous reaction. Building envelopes take a long time. Trying to compute equations over those two materials is computationally demanding. And 21 years ago, computers were not like how they are today. And so I was kind of looking at developing the equations. I came up with this theory of freeze flow where you freeze the equations over the air and you keep calculating over the building envelope and then you exchange information. I basically did what AI can do like this. So yeah, I was completely replaced by AI, but back then it was useful. The thing is CFD used in buildings wasn't particularly fashionable. It was an expensive tool and so it wasn't really used much. And then COVID happened. So COVID, I mean this is a little video of the dynamic simulation. So air is coming out of the vents. There are all kinds of fluids, patterns going on because of various things happening in the room. Don't forget, you've also got the added complication of the sun traveling over a building and that can change the thermal conditions in the space. So there were so many scientific questions that were being asked. COVID happened. Should I tell you my COVID story now? Yes, okay, well. So COVID happened and suddenly CFD in buildings became really fashionable. So it was like the research that I did was kind of dormant for 20-something years and then or slightly less than 20 years. And then it became really fashionable because the airflow in buildings would transport COVID particles and everyone wanted to know the fluid dynamics in enclosed spaces. So what I was working on became really useful and actually so useful that that's how we got our social distancing measures. That's how we had to redesign the air conditioning systems in certain situations like on an aeroplane or in various... Okay, I'll skip to a few slides later. Let me show you. So I did the aerodynamics of COVID social distancing. This was a film I did for TV. I also was looking at the fluid dynamics in a plane, which is the video next to it. And then a film that I found really fascinating to make was the fluid dynamics around an orchestra. Because during the time of COVID, we couldn't go to theaters like this. We were too close together that we had to socially distance. And I never thought about this until I made this film for television. But there's a lot of fluid dynamics happening when musicians are playing instruments. So because musicians were desperate to get back into auditoriums like this one, and play their instruments together as an orchestra again, they decided to do a fluid dynamics analysis of playing their instruments. So there were sensors attached to trombones and trumpets and clarinets and flutes. And they managed to reconfigure orchestras so that they were not breathing in each other's outbreaths, basically. And they could also keep the audience of the orchestra at a safe distance. They could determine the ventilation into a space. And they basically, thanks to fluid dynamics, were able to play their instruments again in front of an audience during COVID. So CFD has been useful. Now, one of the reasons why I really wanted to look at CFD in a way that I could do look at CFD in buildings was because of something called SICK Building Syndrome. Has anyone ever heard of this SICK Building Syndrome? It's a syndrome that basically strikes people who tend to work in high-rise buildings. Because if you think about it, they're just a kind of sandwich of flaws. And engineers have to design ventilation systems so that the air conditioning is constantly refreshing the air on every floor. And as a building services engineer, there's something like, I can't remember how many changes per hour, but you have to have a certain number of air changes an hour for us to all be healthy. And in some high-rise buildings, the ventilation systems don't reach certain corners and pockets of a space, just because the ventilation system hasn't quite been designed well enough. And you get something called SICK Building Syndrome, where pockets of air are stagnant, not being refreshed by the air conditioning system. Let's just say it's a pocket over here. And it's air that is stale, it's moist, it's warm, which is a perfect breeding ground for bacteria. And bacteria can grow and multiply in these warm, moist spaces. And people that work in high-rise offices can breathe in that toxic air and get something called SICK Building Syndrome, which can cause days off SICK, make you feel a bit fluey. And it's actually a real thing. I mean, we do spend something like 90% of our time, I can get the stats for you, something like 21, 21 and a half hours per day we spend in buildings. So it's really important to have good ventilation, because otherwise you can get something called SICK Building Syndrome. And I'm not really making this up. There was something called the Curse of the Pharaohs. And it was actually this myth that the myth was that the person that opened the door of the tomb of Tutankhamun died because of the Curse of the Pharaohs. So let me backtrack. Tutankhamun's tomb was shut over 3,000 years ago. So Tutankhamun was mummified, put in his tomb, door was shut for over 3,000 years. Again, no ventilation, perfect breeding ground for bacteria, whereas warm and moist and bacteria could just grow and multiply. And then someone came along called Lord Karnav Knavan. Thank you. And he funded someone called Howard Carter, who went on an expedition to discover the tomb back in November 1922. Now myth had it that these people died very suddenly and unexpectedly after the tomb doors were open. Was this the Curse of the Pharaohs? Or was it a lack of fluid dynamics in the tomb? Well, thanks to simulations, we now know that it was a lack of fluid dynamics and not a curse. And anyway, the papers really wanted to sensationalize the whole story, so they were winning out of that as well. I was asking all these questions. A lot of scientific questions were asked in order for me to develop my CFD research to make CFD better and more advanced. But that's not the only route to engineer things. I'm a member of the Blue Plax Committee, and I've been doing a lot of Blue Plax on my social media on Instagram, because I love hearing about engineers who had some connection to London and English heritage sites within London and finding out about their journeys into engineering. And these three men are all engineers that made an absolutely significant contribution to engineering, and none of them went to university. They are people who left school at 14. I'm not encouraging this, by the way. I'm just saying that if you really do want to engineer things and you really have a curiosity for inventing and finding solutions, you don't have to go to university to do that. So Oliver Heveside was a physicist and mathematician. He revolutionised telecommunication. He left school at 16, was largely self-taught, and just loved independent study. And we are living in an era where we can do a lot of independent study, thanks to social media. George Livesey was an engineer and industrialist and became chairman of the South Metropolitan Gas Company. He gained work experience in an engineering gas industry job and never went to university either. And then Tommy Flowers was an electrical engineer, and he helped to design and build Colossus, which is the world's first programmable electronic digital computer. And that Colossus helped to decipher German codes during World War II. Flowers left school at 14, again was largely self-taught, and gained practical experience through apprenticeships. Now, I know apprenticeships has a bit of a stigma attached. I know that my dad was like, don't do an apprenticeship. You've got to go to university. You've got to do everything the right way. And yeah, but honestly, if you really want a job in engineering, it's so important to get work experience and apprenticeships is a great way of doing that. Earn one, you learn. I'm all for it. Last week, because I'm a trustee of the Global Communications Museum in Cornwall, in Port Curno. And last week, I gave a talk on the women in war. This is really a talk about women who had no intention of being engineers. They basically rolled their sleeves up and got on with things because at the time of war, many of the men were sent off to fight, leaving the women behind. And these women were doing other jobs like they were upholsters and secretaries and all the typical jobs that were expected of women during that time. And these four women have incredible stories of contributing to Bletchley Park, where German messages were decoded, deciphered, thanks to Colossus and then also, gosh, the bomb. There were many, many different mechanisms that we developed to try and decode these messages. Avis Joan Hearn was someone who worked in a, was a radar operator. And again, like she had to really understand the transmitters, the receivers, that all the instrumentation that was used to basically ensure that she could send messages to our RAF pilots. Now, during the Battle of Britain, the Nazi German war plane, the Battle of Britain was an airborne battle. So it was only fought by air. And there were about three to four Nazi German planes to one RAF plane. That was roughly the ratio. So it was really unlikely that we were going to win this battle. But thanks to getting messages from the radar, the radar, the radio, the radio, the radar stations to the pilots, we were able to win that war purely on strategy. And it was down to women like Avis Joan Hearn, who really mucked in and helped get those messages across. And then Florence Attridge, she worked in the Marconi factory. So she was busy winding coils around iron cores to make the essential components for radios. Marconi is a famous radio company. So absolutely key jobs when it came to the war efforts. So the questions that we ask today are really different. Thanks to AI, thanks to quantum, thanks to nuclear fusion and generating power in very different ways. And so now we're in an era where I think we're asking questions about how do we do science responsibly? What does it mean to be human? Because yes, my job, if my job is very predictable and repetitive, could be replaced by AI. But it allows me to be much more human, more creative, more ingenious. So the questions we're asking as engineers today are very, very different. I think we all agree that we're living in an extremely unstable, uncertain time, not just politically, but also climatically, if that's even a word. So we really do have to ask questions differently and really have the benefit of society at the heart of our questions. If scientists can do that, then this will inform engineers to engineer differently. And I really believe in engineering being put to use for the greater good. And so today we're coming up with engineering solutions like smart cities, smart infrastructure, monitoring and restoration, sustainability, circular and adaptive technology. So really trying to be conscious of what we recycle, what we repurpose, all of that kind of engineering thinking, rather than building and making machines that work. It's about thinking on a more humanitarian scale and just being more conscious. So that brings me on to really the problem I'm trying to solve today in engineering. And it's a bit, some people might say it's a bit woo-woo, a bit hippie, but I think it's absolutely essential for the future of engineering. And that's really looking at the problem of reputation or the intention of engineers. Because my experience has been that not many people are choosing engineering. I don't know what it is about engineering in the UK, but for some reason the reputation of engineers is so different to other countries. Engineers in this country are not seen as society's secret superheroes. And I don't understand why that is, because I really fundamentally believe that engineers really are superheroes. I mean during COVID, yes, doctors and nurses were essential, but engineers are the ones that erected hospitals in no time at all, built ventilators, had to think on their feet, came up with refrigeration solutions for our vaccines, came up with the vaccine. So many solutions that they had to think on the spot for. And so I think we have to improve the reputation of our engineers. And maybe that's down to intention. We have to want to do good and we have to think in a much more agile way. We have to not feel bad about being caring towards our society and we have to engineer for good. So engineers are not just people in bowler hats walking with a cane like Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the man who, my university, where I'm pro-tunceler, is named after Brunel University. They're not just people in hard hats, although engineers do often wear hard hats and walk around with blueprints. They are engineers that look like this. And there are 46 of them in my book. And they all just do not look like the stereotypical engineers. So there are many unconventional routes into engineering, technicianships, apprenticeships, work experience, I've covered this, I think, already. And if any of you are engineers in the audience, and I know there are a few, think about communicating your passion more. Because one of the reasons why science is so much more popular than engineering is because of places like this where scientists can communicate their passion. And I think engineers need to really own their responsibility for communicating their passion for engineering. People trust engineers. There have been surveys about how much trust engineers have from the public. But what we need is to really improve our status in society and to improve our visibility. And we can do that in the age of social media. We can really communicate what it is that we do and how we all can look different. There is diversity in engineering. We just need to speak up about it. So  let's all work collectively to really take a look at the wonder and awe of engineering. Keep up your curiosity about what it is that engineers do. I hope I've given you an insight into how incredible engineers have been in aiding the science. I've got a series on YouTube called Crash Course Engineering, which you can all access for free. Just learn a bit more about engineering and let's give engineering a bit more airtime or at least as much airtime as we do scientists. Thank you all for listening. I look forward to hearing your questions now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Living on the edge of chaos - Neil Johnson's 1999 Christmas Lectures 4⧸5 [vUVAkrul27c].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to I predict that in this lecture we will be looking at predicting the future. Just over 400 years ago, a man called Nostradamus made a prediction about this year. In fact, he predicted that this year the world would end. But it didn't. In fact, we would have been surprised if it had. In fact, we wouldn't have been here. But there was another prediction also made concerning this year, and that had to do with the planets. In fact, it was a prediction based on the movement of the Earth around the Sun. It was a prediction that there would be an eclipse. And that did happen. And we would have been surprised if it hadn't. In fact, we would have been very annoyed because some of us booked hotel rooms. And that's the subject of this lecture. How can we predict the future? What is predictable about the future? Will some things always be a surprise? Or is there some element of predictability in nature? And we'll also see that by being a little bit unpredictable ourselves, we can help ourselves stay alive. Now, being able to predict things will be quite useful. Many of us have been stuck in traffic and wished that we weren't. And wished that we could predict not only the traffic, but the weather in the place we were going. And even financial markets. That would be a wonderful thing to be able to predict. Well, 200 years ago, when the Royal Institution was founded, everybody thought the universe ran like a well-oiled clock. A little bit like these toys. Marvelous. And a bit like a pendulum. That's a reliable thing. Swings backwards and forwards. We know that another swing is due. We can predict what this thing is going to do. And a bit like the swinging of planets around the sun, like the eclipse. Even like trying to predict a bus. Buses come along, say, every 20 minutes. If you've been waiting 10 minutes, you know that in a few minutes, well, you're more than likely to have a bus come along. So we use this type of prediction all the time. But other things, very simple things, like a coin, seem very unpredictable. Heads or tails? Tails. Could have been heads, though. So what is it that makes some things predictable and some things unpredictable? Well, to answer this, we have to go on a journey from order and predictability through to chaos and unpredictability. Like a volunteer. Your name is? Tim. Just stand there for this, Tim. So, Tim, what we're going to do, we have this pendulum that swings backwards and forwards, very predictable. We're going to connect another pendulum on the bottom. So could you come down here and just connect this on? Just put that wing nut on. That's it. Great. So, Tim, stand back, hold on to the end of the pendulum, and let it go. Okay, what Tim did, just connected one pendulum on the bottom of another. And now you see, well, it's certainly not as regular as before. In fact, it's beginning to look a bit unpredictable. So I'm just trying to catch this. Now we're going to connect another couple of pendulums with a bar, Tim, could you come and connect these? That's it. Well, what do you think, Tim? Think he deserves a head? Okay, see what you can do, letting it go from even higher. Oh. He seems to be enjoying it. That is very unpredictable. Thank you very much, Tim. Thank you. So what we've seen, we've connected together one, two, three pendulums. The more we connected together, the more unpredictable things became. The harder it was to predict what was going to happen to any one of these pendulums. But how does this fit into our picture of the clockwork universe? After all, there we have two, three, four, five planets. And they're all going around the same sun. Well, this was the question that the King of Sweden wanted to address about 100 years ago. He was interested in knowing, well, what's going to happen to the planets that are going around the sun? Knowing what we know today, what position will they be in a year, two years, 10 years, 200 years time? Now, people had Newton's laws. So they thought Newton's laws, Newton's equations, all we have to do is solve them. You can solve them for two planets. Quite easy. Three planets must be, well, a little bit harder, but surely with a big enough calculator you could do it. So given that the King of Sweden put up some prize money, a lot of people started to really have a go at this calculation, to work out what all of the planets will be doing in a year's time. But they found the calculation very hard. In fact, it became apparent that it was practically impossible. And that was the situation. Nobody collecting the prize money, nobody knowing what would happen to the planets, until this man came along. This is Henri Poincaré, French mathematician. Now, Poincaré wasn't very good at school. He got zero in drawing. But he's actually really quite good at maths. And he decided, instead of trying to solve Newton's equations for a year's time, 10 years' time, that he take a step back and look at the problem in a slightly different way, he realized that what the King of Sweden was really asking was, is the solar system going to remain stable? Are the planets going to remain stable around the sun? That was the important information to get out of the problem. Because he realized that although everybody thought that the universe was behaving in a regular clockwork way, it was very much like this orary, which is based on clockwork mechanism showing planets going around the sun. He realized that things weren't as simple as that. He did a lot of mathematics, quite complicated mathematics, to actually then show that Newton's equations couldn't be easily solved, and that the only thing you could really say about the problem and about the solar system was that it would be stable. But actually, that was enough. That's all the King of Sweden needed to know. So he won the money. But he also changed our view of what it means to make a useful prediction of what kind of things you want to predict. You don't really want to be predicting exactly what's going to happen to all of the planets in 10 years' time. What you really want to know is, are they still going around, and are they still going around the sun? But he also discovered what was wrong with everybody else's approach to the same problem. And to show you what Poincaré demonstrated, I need to volunteer. Could you come down? And your name is? Edmund. Edmund. Could you stand there, please, Edmund? Just stand over here against the desk, face over there. Now, Edmund, we've both got pendulums here. So what I want you to do is come a little bit closer, left hand, just hold that pendulum above that red dot. We've got exactly the same pendulums, and we're going to put them over the same position of this card. I'm going to count down from three and say now. I'm going to say now, just release the pendulum. Okay? Three, two, one, now. Okay, so we both set off our pendulums at the same time, and they're going in the same direction. Same pendulums. But I think you can clearly see that they're certainly not doing the same thing now, are they, Edmund? No, they're not. Thank you very much, Edmund. So what Edmund helped me to show is what Juan Carre said, is that even though you think you've got exactly the same starting conditions for these two pendulums, they rapidly diverge, they rapidly differ in what they actually do. And the important consequence for the calculation of the planets in the solar system is that you can never exactly know the position of the planets. And so any small error will build up over time, and quickly your predictions will become inaccurate. You may actually have heard of this kind of effect. It's called a butterfly effect. Actually, that's another name just for chaos theory. It's the idea that very small changes can cause dramatic consequences in the future. Very much like a butterfly, say flapping its wings in Singapore, will affect the weather on New Year's Day for the new millennium here in Britain. I hope we don't get any of that. So is that it? We should just end the lecture. Things become unpredictable when there are more parts to them, or when there's some kind of outside influence, like the magnetic pendulums. We can never hope to predict anything. Chaos theory rules. Things are either very regular, like a pendulum, or completely irregular and unpredictable. Well, that can't be right. After all, we're sitting here in a reasonably ordered way. Our lives are reasonably ordered. There's life on Earth. That's something reasonably ordered. So it can't be that nature just lives in a completely regular or completely irregular state. So that's what we've got to investigate. How can order arise? Where does nature actually live with respect to this order and disorder, this predictability and complete unpredictability? For this I need a volunteer. Come down. Your name is? Danny. Danny, just stand here please, Danny. We're going to do some balancing. What I'd like you to do is just try and make this stick stand up on the desk. Oops. It's a bit unfair on you, because I've never been able to do it. In fact, I don't think it's possible. Okay, just stand there. Now what I'd like you to do, instead of standing it up on the desk, where it could have fallen all over the place and it was really hard to actually know what would happen to it, I want you to try and support it with your hand and see if you can now make it stand up. Well, let's have another go. Yes, that's better. Yes, well done. Okay, well done. You were so good at that. I'll make you have a go with two, Danny. So just try and hold this up. I'll try and help you. Doesn't look like it's going to work, does it? So I guess three is out of the question. Okay, well thanks very much, Danny. So three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. That's out of the question. There's no way you could expect to make these stand up, to put some order into these rods. In fact, let's just imagine that I haven't got more than three rods here. Let's imagine I had a whole bunch and they're really quite small and I connected them together. It seems impossible that I should be able to make them stand up in my hand. In fact, here we've got a little bit of curtain wire, which is, you can think of, as very many rods connected all together. And I don't think there's any way I'll be able to do it. Well, maybe I'm just not supplying energy in the right way. Maybe I'm not affecting the system in the right way. So instead of having my hand ache while I try to make this stand up, what we have over here is actually a motor. We'll do the same job as my hand. Actually supply energy and it actually vibrates up and down. So now let's see what happens with this. It works. Take the energy out and down it goes. Now, somehow there was order being created because of the supply of energy from the outside. So we need to understand something about this order, how it's created in time, what kind of patterns and order can emerge when energy is supplied. Turns out that the person who started these Christmas lectures, Michael Faraday, was actually the first person to investigate the patterns that emerged when a system was held out of equilibrium. In other words, when energy was supplied to it. He was more interested in motors, electric motors. But here we have a piece of equipment which will demonstrate what he found. Instead of using a motor, I'm actually going to bow this plate which has sand on it. And we'll see what happens. So again, I'm supplying energy and we'll see what happens. You can see a pattern emerges. So nobody told these grains of sand what to do, but they formed a pattern. Now, such patterns are not unfamiliar to us, particularly in sand. For example, if we think of a flat beach without any wind, well, we wouldn't expect to see much other than a flat beach. But in the desert where there's a lot of wind on a windy day on a beach, we know that patterns form in sand. Now, the wind is blowing all over the place, but it creates patterns. Somehow the sand organises itself, order emerges out of apparent chaos. So we need to understand better how these patterns form in time. Now over here we've got a drum. It's got two types of grains in it. And the moment it looks very disorganised, there's no particular pattern we can see. Now I'm going to turn on a motor. It's actually going to rotate this drum. And as it turns, just like the grains of sand, the grains will fall. In fact, you can actually almost see a pattern start to emerge. Well, we'll come back to this. We'll give it time to organise itself. But while we're doing that, we're going to look a bit closer at sand itself. And I need to volunteer. And your name is? Emilia. Emilia. Any good at construction, Emilia? We're doing resistance material. That's good enough. That's fine. Well, what we've got here is a dumper truck containing sand. And what I want you to do is just turn this handle slowly. I'm going to see what happens to the sand. Obviously at the moment, as you turn it, that's fine. Keep going, Emilia. The sand's all on the back of the dumper truck. Nothing's moving. It's kind of dead. There are no patterns. Nothing. Obviously, if Emilia turned it very high, all the sand would fall off. But what we're interested in is what happens in between. Keep going a little bit faster. So we're now getting towards the moment when we expect a little bit of movement in the sand. You can see a few grains starting to move. That's it. Keep going. Now a bit slower now. That's it. So keep going. Because what Emilia's got to do now, of course, is keep increasing the slope. Whoops, that's it. It's slower. It's slower. It's slower. That's it. That's it. Slower. Slower. That's it. And what you can see now, just stop for a moment, just stop for a moment, is that there are movements of all sizes, actually avalanches of all sizes. We're in this kind of critical moment between no moment and having all the sand just drop down here. Could you keep turning just very slowly? And you can see little rivers form. There are tiny movements and large movements. But actually nothing's actually causing the large movements. Somehow the whole thing's connected. It all kind of feeds back on itself. And these patterns just fall. That's great. Thanks very much, Emilia. And in fact, there was no typical time. If we'd been looking for a particular avalanche and asking the question, when's an avalanche of a certain size going to happen? There's actually no particular time. It's not like a bus that a certain avalanche is due. Let's look at our mixed grains and see how they're getting on. And you see they're now forming a nice pattern. Now nobody told these grains what patterns are for. They're just doing it. And it's by studying sand and granular material like this that scientists have actually had some clues and insights into what this critical state is. And one of the first people to do this was actually this man, Pierre Degène. Now Pierre Degène got interested in sand because he was in the French Navy. But actually he was in the French Navy but they posted him in the desert and that's where he first noticed these patterns forming in sand. Very much like these. So nature forms patterns. For some reason, it likes to. So if nature forms patterns in sand and it forms it in these grains and we could form order and some kind of structure in this rod, maybe the same thing happens in us. And that's what we're going to investigate. We have a machine here that detects heartbeats. Now we think of the heart as the most regular thing in us. It's like a regular clock. It's a regular heartbeat and that's what you have when you're healthy. Now we have a volunteer over here who's already wired up and has agreed to have his heart monitored on this machine. Take a seat. Your name is? William. William. So William, we're just plugging you in. What I'm going to do is just start to record William's heartbeat. Looks fairly regular to me. Very good. Okay. Now William. I want you to help me analyse your own heartbeat. So what we're going to do, I'm going to rip this off. If you could just unplug yourself and come around the other side of the desk. Right, come around here. Come around here William. What we're going to do is we're just going to measure the time interval between William's heartbeat. We're actually going to measure it at a distance on here because that's what the trace gives us. So William, could you just read off the interval between your heartbeat here? This first one, we're going from peak to peak. What's it? About 20? Two. Two and eight. 28 millimeters. Right, 28 millimeters along here. Next one. Two and eight. Right, next one. Oh, yeah. 27. 27 now. This one. 27. 27. This one. About 29. 29. This one. 27. 27. Okay, thanks very much William. Thanks for volunteering. So they're all around 27, 28, 29. That's what we'd expect. But that's the exciting thing that scientists have just found out. That actually there's an irregularity in the heart, in the healthy heart. So William shouldn't be worried at all. This is very good. 27, 28, 29, 27. These irregularities that actually characterize a healthy heart. In fact, scientists have found out that it's when the heart gets too regular that there are actually possible problems. And it's not just with the heart. It seems that, for example, in the brain rhythms, in a healthy sleeping patient, they have an irregularity that goes away for a coma victim. But why would the heart want to do that? What's the advantage? Because it does it itself. Unlike we had to drive this motor at a certain frequency, we had to rotate this at a certain rate, the heart kind of finds itself in this position itself. Nature likes it between complete order, complete chaos. Well, first of all, how does it get there? Well, with the heart, there are many body clocks. There are regular contractions of muscles. There are physiological chemical clocks. And all of these are working together or competing at the same time. Now, they feed off each other. There's a kind of feedback between them. But the body, by not relying on any one particular clock, it seems scientists think at the moment that actually this is an advantage because it makes the heart more adaptable. It kind of self-organizes itself and kind of controls itself.  and controls itself without any outside overall clock determining the rate of beating. So there's a kind of advantage in not being too regular and being slightly unpredictable. Actually, this is interesting because we think of health as order and illness as disorder. And so it's beginning to open questions about exactly what we mean by order and disorder in terms of health. It's not just in the body as well. It also seems that in things that we like in the arts, we like things that are slightly irregular. Take, for example, music. Turns out that if you look at, for example, a piece of Bach, and you look at the patterns in time in the music, that they follow very similar mathematics to the mathematics that describes, for example, the sand, the avalanches in the sand, or the irregularities in the heart. Seems that we almost like music that kind of reflects nature. The kind of maths that's in nature we seem to kind of like that. And it actually makes sense because if music's too ordered, of course, it's boring. If it's too disordered, we somehow can't connect to it. And it's this middle ground, this kind of edge of predictability that we find interesting. So it's also true in our daily behavior. I mean, if you go out and get the bus at 8 o'clock every morning, you know that you've got to be slightly adaptable. You don't just step out into the road at 8 o'clock every morning, hoping that there's a bus there. You know you have to adapt. So that's in terms of us as individuals. What about us as a group? This is an exciting new area of science, which is looking at the collective action of a group, of people. Well, one of the things that I mentioned at the beginning of the lecture is a problem of traffic. Now, if you think about it, traffic and the flow of traffic along the road, it's actually very similar to the flow of sand. Sand's made up of grains and they flow in a given direction. So is there any similarity between the two? Well, to investigate this, we need to look at some traffic and I need a volunteer to help me. Could you come down? Your name is? Dean. Dean, just stand there. You're controlling the front end of a traffic jam, Dean. So we're going to set up our traffic jam here. What I want you to do is, when a car arrives at the back, just pull off a car at the front and pull it along the road. Okay, so first car coming in. Second car. Carry on. What you can see is the traffic is very similar to what you can see is the traffic jam moves backwards along the road. That's it. Okay, thanks very much, Dean. APPLAUSE So traffic jams move backwards along the road. Now, we actually have some real traffic data here. Take it from a section of the M25. Now, here we have the section between junction 10, junction 15, cars flow in this direction along the road. And then we have the section between junction 10 and junction 15. The car's flow in this direction along the road. And this is a snapshot of the traffic. Now, the dark regions are where the traffic is moving very slowly. So you can think of it as a traffic jam. And the light regions are where the traffic's moving reasonably quickly. So there's no traffic jam there. And this was taken at 8 o'clock in the morning. Now, as time moves on, of course, we just saw traffic jams move on. And so if I slide this along, you can actually see let's just take one traffic jam. It's black in the centre here. You can actually see it move backwards along the road. Now, of course, no one driver has knowledge of what's happening on the whole road. But if we look at the pattern that's formed along the road for all time, we begin to see something that does indeed resemble some kind of pattern. Not completely dissimilar from the patterns the lines we're getting on these mixed grains that are rotating around there. And this pattern isn't completely regular. But it isn't completely irregular. If it was disordered, then the black and the white will be smeared out all over the place. They'd just be completely disorganised. But we can see some kind of ordering there. And it's understanding these kind of patterns and the realisation that the patterns that occur in things like traffic are very similar to the patterns that occur in, for example, in sand and in many other things in nature that's giving scientists an understanding about what happens in time in these systems. And that's the key then to giving some level of predictability about the future. But of course we're humans. We don't always behave rationally. We drive along. We don't necessarily make the most of the situation that arises. We carry on on the road. We have limited information about what all the other drivers are doing. And we have choices choices. And it's these choices that I now want to look at. How do we make choices? I need four volunteers. Could I have you four here? Yeah. No. No, you. And one more. You come down. Your name is? Emma. Come stand over here, please, Emma. Your name is? Peter. Fraser. Peter and Fraser over here, please. Peter, come around here, please. Your name is? Louise. Louise, if you stand there. Now, take up positions for arm wrestling. Now, I want to listen carefully. The rules of this game, for which there is a reward, are the following. The winners of this game will be the ones that manage to touch the desk six times in the next, say, 20 seconds. That should be enough. Ready? Go. Oh, I can hear some cracking of bones. OK, carry on. Time's running out. Very good. He's still smiling. OK. OK, that's it. That's it. Well done. Well done. You can go back to your seats. Well, unfortunately, nobody made it up to six. But you could have done. It's actually quite easy. All I said was that the winners will be the ones that touch the desk six times. There's nothing to stop you all winning. So you see, when faced with limited information, in this case about our opponent, we don't always make the best choice. We tend to compete rather than cooperate. So if that's for two of us, in a one-on-one situation, what do we do as a group? I want to imagine you're going home every night, safe from school, and you have a choice between two roads. Now, let's imagine you want to get home quickly from school. So you want to take the road that has less cars or bicycles on it, and you want to get on a less crowded road. So you're doing this every night and so is everyone else. So you've got to try and second guess what everyone else is trying to do. Because if you make the same decision as everyone else, that will be the worst possible decision. In fact, there's no best strategy for forming a decision. Because if everybody used it, they'd all make the same decision. So in this situation, we try and learn from the past. We try not to make the same mistakes as in the past. Did we win last night or the night before? What did we do? Well, maybe things have changed now. We all have different ways of processing exactly the same information. And we tend to look for patterns in what's happened before. Just as when we look at the moon, we tend to see a face, even though there's no face there. We like to make sense of information, to try and see some kind of pattern in it. Now, it's not just the case for traveling home that you want to try and be in the minority, say. Also in the case financial markets, there's another minority game. See all these people are getting quite excited about the information they're receiving and making decisions. And they're not all making the same decision. But in this case, as in the case with the road, it pays to be in a minority. Because it pays to be a buyer if everyone else is selling or a seller if everyone else is buying. So in both of these cases, in the traffic and in the case of the financial market, you want to be in a minority. But it's not always that way. Let's think about going to a party. In that case, tends to be that we like to go to the party with the most people at it. We want to go with the majority. And even though there are two equally good parties, somebody always seems to lose out. And one party seems to dominate. Now, what I'm really interested in looking at is what happens if we make that decision over and over again. And we look at patterns in time of what have happened in the past and our experience of the past. And we try and predict the future. So let's just see what exactly we do. If I'd like seven volunteers, please. Maybe one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. If you could just come down, seven of you. There, this region. One, two, three. As long as there are seven of you, it's okay. Need another one. Would you like to come down? So let's stand you. Your name is? Vanessa. Vanessa, stand over here on this line, yellow line facing inwards. Your name is? Harriet. Harriet, come over here, please, next to Vanessa. Your name is? Louis. Louis, come over here, please, Louis. Harriet, I'm just going to move you out and put Louis in between. Your name is? Louis. Your name is? Daniel. Daniel, come stand here. The other three, just stand on the end there. On the white line facing towards the desk, please. We're going to play a game. The game we're going to play is the following. You have to make a decision. You have to make a choice between two colors. In front of you, there's a line that's red. Behind you, there's a line that's blue. When you hear this sound, BAM! You have to jump. You have to jump to the line where the least number of people are. You're trying to get away from everyone else. Okay? You don't want to jump where everyone else is. Everybody happy? Yes. You're trying to get away from everyone else. Okay? Everybody happy? There are prizes. LAUGHTER So, let's just pretend that we've run it once and say one, two, three, four, five people jumped to the red line and two people jumped to the blue line. So the blue ones, one. Okay? Everybody ready? BAM! Okay, let's see what we have. Three on blue, four on red. So blue wins. Back to the white line, please. Three on blue, four on red. Sweets. Who won? Here we go again. Ready? BAM! Okay, three on red, four on blue. WHISPERING Remember, this is the pattern from the past. So the three reds win. Yay. Back to the white line, please. BAM! Okay, three on red, four on blue again. Prize to the reds. White line. BAM! Four reds. Five reds. Two blues. I saw that. Where were the blues? Back to the white line. BAM! Four reds. Three blues. Reds. Blues. Sorry, blues. Back to the white line. BAM! Yeah. Red. Back to the white line. BAM! Okay, two reds. Five blues. Is it once more? Two reds. White line. BAM! Two blues. Five reds. Okay, just go back to the white line and stand there for a moment. What we see is in this minority game, very much like the traffic choosing between two routes, or the traders choosing to buy or sell, what we see is a progression in time, a pattern in time that doesn't really settle down. But it does kind of organize itself around this midpoint. So you're kind of organizing yourselves. Now we're going to play another game. In this case, you've got to be in the majority. You've got to go with the crowd, okay? And you're only going to win suites if you all do the same thing. So, let's get you going. Let's imagine that last time, blue was the majority. So blue was the winning decision. So, you ready? Majority, right? Go with the crowd. BAM! Oh! Back to the white line. Hi, are you all suites? Remember that. Back to the white line. Do we see a pattern emerging here? White line. White line. Okay, thanks very much. Go back to your seats. Yes, I am a suite. Thank you. So this pattern doesn't look anything like the last one. And most importantly, neither of these two patterns look like what would happen if we tossed the coin. In fact, if everybody had a coin and they were tossing it to decide whether to jump to red, say if it was heads, and blue say if it was tails, the pattern would have been quite different. What we're seeing here is a crowd effect. People are moving as a crowd. On the other hand, the coin, you see, has no memory. The crowd has a memory. That's why it locks into one result. Both red and blue are equally good. There's nothing wrong with either line. But one emerges as the winner for no real reason. Because there's memory in the system. That's the only reason. And we each have memory, and there's feedback between all of us. And somehow we act together. Unlike the coin that doesn't have any memory. Can't remember the last heads or tails. And it acts independently every time you toss it. It's this understanding of how crowds behave. That's actually important. Because everybody's acting individually with their own rules. Nobody's controlling the crowd. But for example, here, everybody managed to get across the bridge. Nobody tells them what speed to go at. But it's quite efficient the way in which everybody gets across. That's what people do. Animals have been doing this for a long time. In fact, ants are really good at doing this. Over here, we have some food for these ants. The ants' house is over here. And they've got a couple of roots. And although there are some ants on this route, actually the crowd have actually found this route for some reason. Maybe because it's wider, but it is a bit longer. But that doesn't matter. Ants, although they've got no walkie-talkies, there's no super ant telling them what to do. I'm going to do radio broadcasts. They find a solution to the problem of getting food and taking it back to the nest. It may not be the best solution, but it is a solution and they found it reasonably quickly. And this idea of how to organize and how organization itself emerges in a population, almost like a kind of collective intelligence in a population, it's turning out to have great importance, not only for organizing humans and understanding how ants work, but also even in arranging telephone networks. Telephone networks are very complicated. To have one computer that's controlling all of the data is really difficult. And if one part of the network goes down, the computer that controls it would have to contact all of the other data packets to tell them what to do. Far better to send each of these packets off like people or like ants with their own rules for deciding what to do. And let the system decide. The system self-organizes. In fact, not only with data packets, but also with organizations, organizations of people. Left alone, they do quite well at organizing. Maybe some of you feel that that would be the best way to run your school. I'll leave that to you. So what we've seen is that nature likes it on the knife edge between order and chaos. And so do we. We actually thrive there. But on that knife edge, there are no typical timescales. There's no sense in which something is due, like the bus. So maybe we might even speculate that this lack of a certain period or a certain time that events are due in, given that we live our lives by a clock, is why we actually sometimes seem to kind of have conflict with such rigid timetables and structures and structuring of time itself. But of course the only way to understand really about the future is to travel into it. And that we'll be talking about in the next lecture. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Quantum physics and the gateway to a new reality - with Vlatko Vedral [TKBqNHEHgj0].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to No, and this actually will be a very gentle discussion regarding the experiments that I think we are more or less able to do at present, and which I think could lead us to some new physics. So before I do that, of course, I have to tell you a little bit about our two most successful theories that we have quantum physics and general relativity. And merging these two theories has been an open problem for a long time. The second point I'm making is an extremely important one, and I know it surprises quite a few people, that we are able to do this simply because of an exponentially rapid development of quantum technologies in the last 20 years. So year 2000 onwards, I think people started to realize that maybe making a full-scale, large quantum computer is not just a thought experiment, it's not just a dream, it's not just an idea, but actually this could be executed. And now, probably most of you know that at present we have many heavy industries engaged in this, and there is really a rapid progress, so we are improving the sensitivity of our measurements, how deep we can go and test all of these ideas. So we really owe it to that. Incidentally, historically, I think the Industrial Revolution was physics that came out of it, it was triggered in a very similar way by engineers getting there first, making all of these things, and then physicists starting to ask questions, what are the limitations of this? How much work can I really get out of these systems? Is energy conserved and so on? So I think we are going through a very similar period now as far as quantum technologies are concerned. So I want to give you to zoom out a little bit. This is this famous physics cube, and it contains the three fundamental constants, and that's really what I want to tell you about, how to test the domain where all of these things matter. So you have Newton's constant G, this upper axis here, and the larger G, you're almost imagining that you can switch G off. Obviously, G is a constant, but you could be in a regime where G doesn't really matter that much. This axis is Planck's constant. We are talking about quantum mechanics being more and more relevant as you go in this direction. Here is the domain of Newtonian classical mechanics. So we are quite confident about that. We understand that and we understand where that collapses really. And in this third direction, we have the speed of light. I put it down as one over the speed of light. The reason being that you recover the usual non-relativistic thing when the speed of light is assumed to be really large. You take C going to infinity, which gets you back to classical mechanics. So we've tested lots of these things, but we haven't tested this side of the cube very much at all. So we've done things in quantum field theory, but we haven't tested, and this is the area where somehow quantum mechanics and gravity both matter. And I'm using an awful lot of jargon here that I think will be clear to you as we go along. But here we have even theories that are arguing that gravity should remain classical and somehow it could still be combined with quantum mechanics. I'm very much against this idea, and the field is very exciting precisely because we have all of these views competing. And then the final vertex here, the closest one to us would be what some people call theory of everything. But that doesn't really matter to us tonight because we don't really know. None of this depends on whether there is even a theory of everything. We don't know that. No one knows anything about that. But it would be nice if we had a theory that encapsulates at least all of the stuff that we've had so far. So the philosophy I followed in my book, I think it's the usual philosophy that leads us to new physics and not just new physics. It leads us to new science, I would say, almost always. I don't think I can think of a single exception to this. So basically, it would be something that John Wheeler, the famous American physicist who inspired a whole generation of people in the 50s and 60s and 70s to work on these and related problems, he called it radical conservatism. So don't worry, it's not a political doctrine. It's basically an attitude where you are conservative as far as the fundamental principles of your best theories are. So we're going to assume that the principles of quantum mechanics and the principles of general relativity are both correct. And the radical part of this is that we're going to push them so far into a domain where they start to possibly feel uncomfortable. We haven't tested them there. And these are domains where both gravity and quantum mechanics matter. And I think every revolution, if you think about relativity, if you think about quantum mechanics, how that came about, it was exactly asking the same questions. Which principles from classical physics can we take over into the new theory and what do we really have to discard given our experimental results? So that's the attitude that I'm advocating. So let me give you one slide. I'm afraid that this is going to be a crash course on quantum mechanics and a crash course on relativity. But you'll see as we go along and as I take you through these five experiments that I have in mind, you will see exactly I think what's at stake and why I think they're interesting. So in quantum mechanics, the only thing you really have to understand, Richard Feynman, John Willard's student said this is the only mystery in quantum mechanics. He called it the only mystery. By the way, you can see that even physicists, big physicists disagree on what is the only mystery. But he called the superposition principle. That's one of those principles that I want to be conservative about. I want to keep it, actually. And I want to see how far it takes us. So the simplest experiment, and we've done this with all sorts of systems. I'm using a photon here, a particle of light, because that's the easiest thing to do. But we've done this with atoms. We've done this with subatomic particles. We've done this with molecules. And people are now going towards living systems and want to put a virus and a bacterium in a superposition of different states. So the reason why I'm saying this is that that's why I'm so confident that this principle should probably, will probably survive ultimately. So I don't want to give it up now and start altering it. So how do we know that, actually? The simplest experiment that we do here, and that's the interesting thing, is that if you sent a photon through a single beam splitter, so this is simply a piece of glass, you can do it in a fancier way, but think of it as a piece of glass, just like your sunglasses, if you like. And it has a certain probability to let the photon go through and a certain probability to bounce the photon and get it detected by detector one. And if you make this half transparent, the beam splitter, as you repeat this experiment, you will see that half of the photons end up in the detector two and the other half end up in the detector one. It's always 50-50. But the feature of quantum mechanics that Einstein always complained about, you know, God doesn't play dice, quantum mechanics does not allow us to tell what's going to happen in each individual run of this experiment. So it really is as random as anything we've seen in physics. You can prepare the photon exactly the same way. Everything can be controlled in the same way, and you will never really be able to tell which way the photon will go. It becomes deterministic only as you repeat this many times and you get the 50-50 statistics. Then you can bet that it will come out that way. Now the other complaint, you can almost learn quantum mechanics by going through the complaints of Einstein's, by the way. They're almost like the axioms of quantum mechanics. Just negate them. So the first one, God really does play dice, as far as we know. The second one was the famous spooky action at the distance. And it comes about because of this. Imagine you don't detect your photon, but you put two mirrors instead of two detectors and you recombine the two parts of the photon and you introduce another beam splitter. So this piece of apparatus is exactly the same as that. Imagine it's A-50-50 beam splitter. And so now what happens, and that's really the main surprise here, is that as you run this experiment, you only get detector one to click and never detector two. And that's really weird because I spent about two minutes trying to convince you that this is as random as it gets. Now I introduce another random element and it suddenly becomes deterministic. And the reason why Einstein didn't like it is because you had to acknowledge, and every interpretation, I promise to you, every interpretation of quantum mechanics does have to acknowledge this in one shape or form, that the photon really goes down both of these arms of the interferometer simultaneously. It really splits itself at the beam splitter. And then it gets recombined. Both of these parts get recombined. And because it behaves still like a wave, this is this famous wave and particle duality in quantum mechanics, the waves in this direction cancel each other out. They're exactly out of phase so that the maximum of one wave are the minimum of the other one. So they give you zero signal, if you like, zero probability here, whereas they enhance each other when they go in this direction. But the spooky thing what Einstein didn't like, and this is one of the consequences of this, and we've tested it, people have Nobel prices now when they tested all of these things, it's really beyond doubt at this level that we are discussing. Imagine you put the detector here. These arms of the interferometer could be as large as you like. You could actually imagine a cosmic interferometer where you have a star sending photons to us, but they're really going around the massive object which curves these parts, the gravitational lensing when they come to us. It's like a cosmic interferometer. And Einstein's complaint was the following one. Then I put the detector here and I don't get a click. With half a probability I'm not going to get a photon detected by the detector. Suddenly what quantum mechanics tells us is that there is a photon in the other arm of the interferometer. So I put the detector on one side of a black hole, I don't get a click, and suddenly I know there is a photon miles away on the other side. That's kind of what he was complaining about. And nature really is like that. And the funny thing is that it's perfectly fine with relativity at this level. It really doesn't allow us to do anything faster than the speed of light. So he was needlessly worried about it because quantum mechanics beautifully complies with relativity as well. So that's somehow, if you ask which path does the photon take, you really have to acknowledge at some point that there is something going down both of these paths. Because if you assume that it only takes one of these paths, then it's simply going to come out randomly at the next beam splitter and you're not going to be able to explain the perfect interference that you get here. So now special relativity. Like I said, it's a crash course on quantum. This was all I had to say on quantum mechanics. And now relativity is equally, I would say, counterintuitive, but possibly in a different way. Although the two theories do have a lot of similarities. And what I try to explain a bit more in my book is that actually they're not as different if you think about them a bit harder as maybe some people would suggest. So the famous twin paradox in special relativity, the one that says that time is relative to how fast you are moving. And I think most of you know about this, that you have two twins on Earth. Let's say one of them goes on a journey, travels somewhere and comes back and suddenly the traveling twin ends up being younger than the twin that remains on Earth. And that sounds really paradoxical. It's just that people have done these experiments, of course, not with twins, but they've done it with atomic clocks. They've taken atomic clocks on flights, Australia and back and low and behold really when the atomic clock comes back, it's actually younger than the one that stayed stationary here. So we have lots of even indirect, not even as direct as this evidence that this is true. It's all because of the simultaneity. And that's what Einstein actually, that was his biggest contribution, that what I think takes place at the same time in my own frame, if I'm standing still, someone who is traveling by on a train, I think that was the example that Einstein used, in fact would see one of these events happen before the other one. So we can never have an absolute agreement on things that happen at the same time and that's amazing. I drew a different picture here which is an even more stunning example. Some people would call it a paradox. Every time you see a paradox in quantum and in relativity, they're not paradoxes. We really don't have any paradoxes. The two theories are ridiculously successful. And that's precisely why I want to push them into a domain where we may get something genuinely different. The Andromeda paradox says the following. You have two people who are walking past one another, just like in my drawing there. And there is a distant galaxy. I want something distant so that it takes a long time to get there so that the effect becomes as large as possible. Now generals on this Andromeda, on one of the planets in this galaxy, generals are sitting in their war room and they're about to decide whether they want to invade Earth. They're sitting and they're voting on the invasion. Now the person walking away from Andromeda will have a different notion of simultaneity. The general sitting down is simultaneous with what, as far as he is concerned, to the person walking towards Andromeda. And now if you do the calculation and it does sound amazing, it just does. But that's that special relativity for you. As far as she's concerned, the generals have already decided. The vote has been cast and they know whether they're invading the Earth or not. For this guy, his simultaneity tells him that the generals haven't yet sat down to make their decision. And this all comes about because they're moving in different directions. They could even go at the same slow walking speed. It's not about speeds. That's why I chose a large distance. But the person walking away will say, well, we don't know yet. It's uncertain. We don't know whether they will decide on that. Whereas the lady here knows that the outcome is already certain. That sounds amazing to me. How can that be? But it can be. I mean, that's the way relativity is. So the question is, does this principle sit well with the superposition principle? And those are all of these interesting things to explore. So here is my first thought experiment that I want to run by you. Sorry, this is from, this is almost, I think this is a biographical book of Peter Cooks. Peter Cook is one of the famous comedians. I like him a lot actually. And I think he entitled it tragically, I was an only twin. It's one of his one liners. And it's super appropriate here because what I would like to test is whether you can do Einstein's twins, but with only one particle. Can we do that with just a single atomic clock? So what do I have in mind? Imagine you can make a superposition of this clock being in two different places at the same time, just like the photon. And when the clock is in one of these places, you take the clock on a journey and then return it back. That's all this slide is really showing you. It makes the superposition, then takes it on this round trip and merges these two together. So now look how funny this actually sounds. You have one in the same system sitting in the same location, but with one probability you have a younger version of that system and with another quantum mechanical probability if you like, you have an older version. So now it's not that I have two twins. I have one object which is in a superposition of being younger and older. And now I'm going to say at the same time, and you can see how our language is not even sophisticated. What do I mean at the same time? How can it be younger and older at the same time? Whose time are you talking about now? And the interesting thing, and that's where quantum mechanics is similar in many ways to relativity, is that quantum mechanics also has multiple perspectives. So there is a perspective of the younger clock, there is a perspective of the older clock, there's advanced more, and there is also the perspective of the person doing the experiment that I just described. And that person has yet another clock timing the whole experiment. So believe it or not, we haven't tested this, but our two theories are telling us that we should actually take this seriously. So if you really want to know what time it is for that object, you have to perform a measurement and then you've got the usual God place dice. With half a probability you're going to get the younger version less time and with the other half probability you'll get more time. And this to me sounds really fantastic. No one has done this experiment. Now gravity, so I'm going to, lots of these experiments are with time and ultimately I will take us to the domain where I'm testing the quantum nature of gravity and that's going to be really the last thing that I want to show you. But continuing with this theme of time, simply because time is another one of these concepts that we argue in physics a lot about, is time a fundamental concept? Is it something that really is emergent? Is there an error of time? Why does time seem to flow, so to speak, in one direction? And why is it so difficult to reverse things and go backwards in time? So that's the kind of the spirit of lots of these things. But before we get there, I'm saying that the similar effect exists in general relativity. So the previous experiment was all about special relativity. But if you include gravity, you now have the famous effect that I think you've all seen in movies like Interstellar, where an object that's closer to the center of gravity, let's say closer to Earth, will age less than an object that's higher up. I think in Interstellar that was a neutron star and the difference was really huge between the two times. But because our atomic clocks are so accurate, you can actually tell the difference in gravity. If you elevate your atomic clock by 10 centimeters, by half a meter, you will already see the last two or three digits change because of the gravitational time dilation. And that's always been amazing to me, actually. So my feet and your feet as well are actually aging slower than my head. I mean, admittedly, it's a tiny difference. It's 10 to minus 16 seconds. So even if you add that up over the whole lifetime, you're not going to be able to detect that difference. Certainly it doesn't make any difference, biologically speaking. But it's kind of interesting there is a gradient of that kind. So the second experiment I would like to do, and again, we are very close to being able to do that because we know better and better how to manipulate quantum superpositions. And we have better and better time keepers as well. So all of these things are now conspiring positively, if you like, for us to be able to do these things. So what you need to do is exactly the interference experiment I showed you before. What you need to send one branch of the system to some higher gravitational field or lower, in this case, gravitational field. The other one goes to a different gravitational field. And what you're really measuring is the difference between these two. And the way you measure them is that you recombine these two possibilities and then you detect them. And the detection probability really tells you how big the difference between the two arms is. So it's very interesting. So it's a quantum superposition directly affected by gravity. And it doesn't matter. I don't want to bore you too much with the mathematics, but there is a contribution that some of you will recognize as the Newtonian contribution. So had Newton known quantum mechanics, he would have probably predicted that there is a difference between these two simply that goes as m times g, the gravitational constant, times the height difference, mgh, what you call potential energy, gravitational potential energy. But the second term here is the one that's interesting for us to test, because that's a genuine gravitational, that's a gr, general relativistic correction to that. So we already know that this exists here. And experiments have confirmed it, but the question is really to go beyond that. And no one knows. It could be that something goes wrong when you have a quantum mechanical superposition. We've never really tested general relativity in the proximity, if you like, of quantum superpositions. So let me spend a few slides before I tell you about another experiment with time. I'm going to go quickly through this. But the key thing, and maybe this gives you a good intuition as to why it's so difficult to make quantum computers. This is all at the root of that. The reason why these experiments are difficult is very closely related to why we don't have a full universal quantum computer yet. And the difficulty is simply in performing interference. So you have to be able to make a superposition, but that's only half of the experiment. You then have to bring these two elements of the superposition back to the same place. And that sounds awfully like reversing the arrow of time. And actually, it really is. And we know we can do this with simple systems, but there is then a fundamental question. How large can an object be to still allow us to make these kind of interference experiments? So make a superposition and then undo it and see what happens. And that's how we test all quantum interference, really. And there is a long, long history that I don't want to bore you too much with. But Boltzmann was really the first person to seriously attack this problem. To ask, how do I get anything irreversible? He was thinking not about quantum mechanics, but about Newtonian mechanics. But Newtonian mechanics is equally reversible, if you like. It's the same issue there. And Boltzmann was struggling to explain why do we see that disorder increases when everything ultimately can go in both directions in time? Why doesn't it just come back to the original initial situation? And I think he introduced something that's called the assumption of molecular chaos. So what Boltzmann, and this is relevant to us now because I want to test this within the quantum domain. And it will give us something that seems absurd as well, but it seems to me it's a genuine possibility. So he thought we have all of these atomic collisions in a gas, molecular collisions. And then he said, yes, it's reversible if I can follow each of these collisions, keep track of all of them, then I can probably reverse it. But actually, it's enough to confuse the following thing. When two atoms collide, let's call them A and B, whether A goes in the upward direction or downward direction is something that Boltzmann imagines we forget. We simply don't know which atom goes which way or which molecule goes which way after the collision. And Boltzmann says very quickly after having gazillions of these collisions in a typical gas, you're going to end up in a situation where you won't know what the initial state was. It's a very simple illustration here. Imagine you take all the molecules in this room and you put them in one corner of this room. It wouldn't be good for the rest of us, but I think it's just a thought experiment. And imagine you have another scenario where you put all of these molecules into another corner. They're perfectly distinguishable. They're completely different initial configurations. But Boltzmann says let them evolve and let them evolve in a careless way that you don't really keep track of what they're doing in each individual collision. Ultimately, you're going to get something that looks like that. And good luck telling whether that comes from this situation or that situation. So he somehow acknowledged that yes, it's reversible, but in fact, practically, if you just even forget a little bit of information, you're going to get something that's irreversible. And this is, by the way, the only way we still are present.  understand why there is an arrow of time. It's kind of because of the extra statistical assumption that I made there. So needless to say, there were many people who complained to him about this kind of logic. Lachschmidt was, there were all his colleagues in Vienna. I think he had a really hard time defending all of his views. Some of them didn't even believe in the existence of atoms at that time, by the way. So Lachschmidt said, why don't you just take each of these atoms, reverse each of the velocities in the opposite direction, and surely they should go back, and you will know exactly where they go back to, because it's reversible. Boltzmann was very humorous. He sent him a postcard which said, go ahead and reverse them. And that's again saying the complexity of this situation is such that this is very hard to imagine to do with a very common. We can do it with a handful of atoms, and actually that's exactly what quantum interference is about. But we don't know how to do this with larger systems. The other one was the mellow, was another famous objection. He said, Lachschmidt, forget about reversing them. You don't even have to do that. All you need to do is wait for long enough, and if the dynamics is reversible, it's going to come back spontaneously to the original configuration. That's something that's known as the Poincarevry currents, and quantum mechanics has it as well. And probably you are guessing what Boltzmann's answer for that was, it was go ahead and wait. And of course the wait is much longer than the age of the universe. Yes, if you have infinite time, it will do that infinitely many times, but actually that's not the universe that we happen to live in. So here is the experiment number three. What can quantum mechanics add to this? Quantum mechanics can really make this even more bizarre. And again, it's to do with the superposition principle, which like I said, I'm taking seriously. I don't think it's going to collapse at this level, but that's exactly what we are testing. Is it going to be like this? So you take a complicated system, put it in a superposition, think again of two different locations, and then imagine that in one of these locations, you run a forward direction dynamics, and in the other one, this minus one simply means you are going backwards in time. So what is amazing with this is that we have a system in a superposition of going forward as far as time is concerned and backwards. And this surely sounds paradoxical. Many of my colleagues would say, no, you're never going to be able to do that with a complex system. But that's the interesting thing here, because it really shows you that somehow quantum mechanics is able to maybe handle any of these arrows of time, and not just that, it can even make a superposition of these arrows of time. And again, you can do this easily with a single particle. People have done some of these simple experiments, but the real question is how complicated can this system be and still be in a quantum superposition of two different arrows of time? So that's certainly something worth testing. So we are getting now closer to gravity, and quantizing gravity is really the biggest outstanding question in physics at present. We don't know how to do that, again, in my view, for the simple reason that we have zero experimental evidence in which direction to go. So you will have something like five, broadly, five different classes of theories competing, and each of them claiming that they are a way to quantize gravity, or to merge, not necessarily even to quantize gravity, but to bring the principles of quantum mechanics together with the principles of general relativity. And we don't know, any of them could ultimately be correct, they could all be wrong as well, there could be something else that we are missing. But what's really missing is any experimental clue from this domain. So the radical part here is absent, we just don't know which direction to take. And so I want to tell you something that I've done with Chiara Maletto. So the main, this is one of those principles that I think most of us physicists would not like to give up, and it's called the equivalence principle. Einstein called it the happiest thought of his life. Okay, so this is a guy, imagine, who went through how many world wars, how many marriages, how many kids and all of that, and the happiest thought of his life is coming up with the equivalence principle. You know, that's the passion that you need for fundamental physics. So what's the happiest thought that he had? He imagined himself falling in a lift, in a closed box so that you cannot look outside. If you can look outside, then you can figure out what's going on. But he thought if I'm falling in a lift and gravity makes everything fall at the same rate, independently, Galileo already knew that, independently of the mass, then the objects next to me, if I drop them as well, will just appear to be completely stationary with respect to me. So actually, by falling in gravity, I'm effectively in an inertial frame, which means I switched gravity off. That's the profound idea. Once you understood this, you can actually do the whole general relativity. You can derive most of the key results in general relativity by just understanding this principle. So how did... There is a very simple way of illustrating this. And apparently, this was one of the favorite toys of Einstein as well. He got it for one of his birthdays. So you've got a cup. You can make it at home. It's very easy. You've got a plaque. I should have probably brought it here myself. I'm just too lazy. So you have a cup and you have a rubber band. And the table tennis ball, ping-pong ball is here. And under normal circumstances, the force that's pulling the ball into the cup and gravitational force here balance each other out. So as you hold it like this, the ball is just dangling outside of this cup. And now you drop it. That's your Einstein's lift. And Einstein says, as you drop it, gravity switches off. This guy doesn't feel gravity. And lo and behold, the ball goes inside. You can do this experiment. It's the simplest one. And that's the simplest confirmation of the equivalence principle. It's a genius idea, actually, very far-reaching. So that's Einstein's toy. Now, what's the... You can probably anticipate what a quantum mechanic like myself is going to ask. What happens if I'm falling and not falling at the same time in gravity? Let's put quantum superpositions here. Let's take this idea seriously. And let's put it in an object that really exists in two different states of motion at the same time. All hell breaks loose. I have a recent paper. I think there were six of us on the theoretical side. And I think no two people agreed with one another. The paper is still unpublished. We're still discussing what's going on. But the idea is, literally, I'm drawing it in a kind of Galilean style. You literally launch an object in a superposition of, let's say, taking a ballistic trajectory in the gravitational field, just as a cannonball would. And you put the other object to go at a constant. Maybe you put some supporting table here so that this guy just rolls at constant velocity. And then you ask yourself, what happens to the equivalence principle now? And if you take these two seriously, and that's what I think will happen, and that's exactly what this experiment was aimed to test, is that you think that along this trajectory, you will obey the equivalence principle, and the same along this trajectory. So one way to merge these two principles, the superposition and the equivalence, is to simply acknowledge that Einstein is right in every element of the superposition. That's what I believe. And I think the experiment I'll show you shows that. My colleague Roger Penrose, for instance, believes that gravity will collapse quantum mechanics. He was wrong in this instance. But it is possible, and we're all open to this possibility, which is why this is an exciting question, that maybe something funny happens to either of these two principles. But it seems to me you can have them at the same time. This is my colleague Ron Folman from Israel, who actually had a tiny microchip on which he mounted the Bose condensate. So this is this collection of atoms that really behaves... It's a large collection. You're talking millions of atoms, all behaving like one superatom. And he literally introduced a beam splitter. You can do that if you arrange your optical fields in the right way. He made a beam splitter to exactly implement this idea that one part of the condensate undergoes a ballistic motion, and the other one goes in a straight line. And then you ask yourself what happens when they meet here. And what happens is exactly the difference in the phase, as we call it in quantum mechanics, that they get. So you can detect that. But the interesting thing is that the superposition survives, and the equivalence principle, if understood in this branch by branch quantum way, also survives. So I think that's really interesting. So I would say both theories have passed this test. So let me take you through this last experiment that I wanted to show you, because I think this would be the most impactful one, really. And here, Sugato Bose at UCL here in London and his team came up with an idea at the same time as Kiaro Maletto and myself. So a few years back, we thought, could we actually not just test whether gravity survives or quantum mechanics survives, but could we really test whether gravity itself does have some quantum mechanical features? Is it capable of being in a superposition of different states? And I think this, if you ask me for what I think would be the most pressing experiment to do, it would be this one. And I think there is a race on now, maybe 10 different groups in the world are really trying to set this up. And as I said, quantum technologies are allowing us to do something. The challenge is that you really need an object that's massive enough so that gravity is really detectable, because as you know, that's the weakest force that we have. So this is a variant of everything I've showed you so far. And what you do is you take two different masses, you make each of them in a superposition of two different locations. So this zero just means the mass is in this branch. One means the mass is here. And likewise for this, and what you are now testing is whether gravity, so it also assumes that you are controlling all other sources of noises, all other forces you can account for. Ideally, you can eliminate them even. So if you make the objects neutral, hopefully you can eliminate any electromagnetic interaction between these objects, because you don't want anything to interfere with gravity. You really want to get the signal mainly from the gravitational field. And the question now is, and it's again very interesting, because the gravity here is still at the Newtonian level. But what you're asking is whether the gravitational force now acts between each element of the superposition at the same time. I wonder what Newton would have said about this, right? So Newton incidentally even doubted waves, and he thought that he had a particle-like explanation for waves as well. And this is of course all about the other way around, that even objects that we traditionally think of as particles actually do behave as waves. So that means there would be a gravitational interaction between this position and that position, this position and this position, these two positions and these two. So there are four different channels through which gravity would have to simultaneously act if it's quantum mechanical. And that's interesting. And what it leads us to, so what's the signature ultimately, it leads us to what Schrodinger, as you know, called entanglement. Schrodinger said, unlike Feynman, Schrodinger said entanglement is the characteristic trait. That's the thing that has absolutely no classical analog. So what does that mean? It means that the gravitational force between these two would make the final state so that if you make a measurement and you see this particle here, the corresponding one will be in this position. And if you detect the particle here, the corresponding one is in the other position. It's exactly the spooky action at the distance that Einstein wouldn't have liked. But like I said, it complies perfectly with relativity. In this case, in fact, it seems to comply with general relativity as well. So to me, it's very interesting because this would be like the basic experiment to even tell us which way to proceed with gravity. If you do get entanglement, it means gravity, at least at this level, must have some quantum mechanical degrees of freedom. It doesn't exactly tell us which degrees of freedom. All of these theories that are advocating quantization of gravity would pass something like this. So that's the slide here that I'm saying. But what I want to show you, in fact, is the numbers, just to give you an intuition of how difficult this is. So the mass of each of these two masses would have to be something like a nanogram, 10 to minus 12 kilograms. And this is a pretty large object. Like I said, we've never put anything as massive as that in a superposition of two different places. So that's a challenge number one. Even if you do half of this experiment, you're going to get front cover nature paper, I think. So that's just a challenge you want. And it could be a fantastic technological piece of metrology. If you want to really detect very sensitive vibrations, that's probably the way to go, even if you're not thinking about gravity. The distance is also challenging. You have to make these interferometers so close to one another to within roughly a micron, 10 to minus 6 meters. Probably hundreds of microns will do the job as well. And you also have to keep them in this entangled state, in this superposed state, for as long as a microsecond. Now, to you a microsecond, you know, it's a millionth of a second. It may sound like a very short time. But the problem is that in this quantum world, noise frequently acts on scales that are much faster than this. So you're going to get noise that's a million times, sometimes faster than that. And if you cannot control anything like this, any stray fields that you couldn't account for, any vibrations you didn't account for, could actually spoil this kind of entanglement. So it's a very challenging experiment, even in terms of engineering. But to me, it seems very much worth doing, not only because of all the applications that it has, and I think there are multitudes, but simply because it would tell us on the fundamental side of physics, what's going on with gravity. Should we really be thinking of gravity as quantum mechanical, or should we be doing something with quantum mechanics and distorting it in some way? Should we be limiting the superposition principle and acknowledging that the things are not like that? And we don't know, no one knows. So one of the experiments I wanted to show you, this is the famous group in Vienna. They already have one Nobel laureate and probably will have another two, is my guess in the not-so-distant future. So this is Markus Aspelmeyer. Anton Zalinger is the boss of that group, and he was the Nobel Prize winner in 2022 for confirming entanglement, actually, in all sorts of settings. But what Markus Aspelmeyer is imagining is that he has these two masses, which are basically vibrating very close to one another. And you can think of this vibration as really being in a quantum mechanical superposition of different locations. And each of these, now, the question, again, is when you have the gravitational force between the two, does it really act point by point simultaneously? Is every point here where the sphere could be going to couple gravitationally to every point on this side? You can see how this is in the spirit of the superposition principle. And again, if you do get that, you can verify that through entanglement. If you don't get any entanglement, and if you've really eliminated all possible sources of noise, then you know that gravity is not quantum mechanical. And that's very interesting. Then we're starting... So a person like me is betting that gravity will pass this test as a quantum mechanical field as well. But secretly, I'm hoping that it fails because then we really have no idea what to do. That somehow really means that something is deeply wrong with our understanding. And of course, no one knows which way this will go. So this is my last slide. The big picture really is that we are very close to testing quantum physics on genuinely macroscopic systems. So this year's Nobel Prize were people who actually showed that electrical circuits can also behave in a quantum mechanical way. They showed what we learned in high school that when a current comes to a junction, then part of the current goes one way and the other part of the current goes the other way. That's called the Kirchhoff rule, one of the two. That's actually completely wrong in the quantum world. And you've guessed it, current goes both ways at the same time. So they've actually made quantum bits out of superconductors which behave exactly in this quantum mechanical way. So that's kind of the closest we've come to being macroscopic. But these are tiny, people would call them mesoscopic, somewhere in between micro and macro. So I think what's exciting is that we are really now in the domain where we can test this and will it pass? And what does this mean for our understanding of the classical world? What I'm saying here, maybe point number two is important and I think that goes back to what I said that we wouldn't have a clue as to what to do, is that it's clear that no halfway picture will do the job because we simply don't know how to combine this with other principles that we believe and trust in physics. So if you have any conservation, conservation of energy, conservation of momentum, all of this goes out of the window if your system consists of something that's half quantum and half classical. We don't even know mathematically how to put them together to obey these very basic symmetries that we all trust and they've never been violated. And then the final point which as I said excites me the most is that we are probably within a decade maybe, maybe even faster from having first violation of Einstein's theory of general relativity and that would be great because like I said, if we showed that gravity has to be quantum mechanical, then certainly the equations that Einstein had have to be upgraded to take into account the superposition principle. At present they don't and we've never tested them in the domain where this has to be the case. That's all I have to say, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Shaping the future  - Neil Johnson's 1999 Christmas Lectures 5⧸5 [stO87OlFMyc].txt ===

 subjected to ser查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 Welcome to the last of this year's Christmas lectures on time. Excuse me young man. Well who are you? I'm your older self, just visiting from the year 2050. And I didn't want to miss a lecture. I remember it was rather good. So get on with it. Time travel, fiction or fact? Today we're going to look at exactly what it takes to make the impossible possible. Now journey is going to take us to the outer limits of what we currently understand about time. And again some of the hardest problems facing theoretical physics at the end of this century. So hold on to your seats. Now story starts with a duck pond. And with this man, Thomas Young. Because about 200 years ago he was sitting by a duck pond watching some ducks. And I have here a pair of ducks. We'll have a look at what Thomas Young saw. Just wind up my ducks. What he saw as the ducks swam around was a pattern appearing in the water which you can see down here. Now the pattern was caused by ripples on the water leaving the ducks and interfering with each other. You can see it in a more controlled way. Here we have a motor that's actually going to cause ripples. And it's going to pass through two slits. And these slits are going to produce ripples which go out into the water and actually interfere. Very much like with the two ducks. You can see a pattern emerging. You can see here along this line two ripples are adding up. So you're getting bright and dark lines. But here it doesn't look like anything's happening. That's because the ripples have actually cancelled each other out. Now this made him pretty happy. First of all because he liked ducks. But second of all because it reminded him of an experiment he'd done a couple of years earlier with light. I'm going to show you now what he saw with his light experiment. Here we have something very similar to the pond and the two ducks. Actually very similar to that tank with water and the two slits. Because here we have something that produces light. And the light passes through two slits actually very close together. Because light has a very short wavelength, a very small wave. So you can't actually see these two slits. But it's the same idea. And then the light passes on and hits this screen. You can actually see a pattern that's quite similar to what we saw on the tank with the water. And there are regions of bright and dark and bright and dark and bright and dark. So this said in thinking, well if I saw the same pattern as I saw on water and I know that waves travel on water, that must mean that light is a wave. After all, particles wouldn't do this. Let's have a look at what particles would do. For this I need a volunteer with a lot of puff. Could you come down? Your name is? J. J. Could you stand here? Now what you're going to do is you're going to blow through this tube and here is sand. Now sand consists of grains, particles, lots of them. And they're all packed in here. And as J blows, he's actually going to blow sand through this box, up against these two slits and the sand can pass through these two slits, very much like the two slits we had with light. And on the back here, we've got a screen which is going to collect the particles of sand as they go through the slits. So, huff and a puff and blow through the tube, J. Keep going. Great. You can do a little bit less. That's it. That's great. Thanks very much. Go back to sleep. I'm just going to show you what's on the screen. And this is it. It's not really a surprise. There are two stripes, very much like the two slits. Of course, sand consists of grains, like little particles, and they either go through one slit or they go through the other slit. And that's what you're seeing. These particles have gone through one slit, these have gone through the other slit. So this is what sand does and this is what particles do. They produce this pattern and it's unlike the pattern that you get with waves. Now we're going to try something a little different. We saw the pattern that light produced, nothing like the sand. But here, we've got essentially the same piece of equipment as before, but we're going to turn the brightness of the light down. Here we have the source of light over here. And it's passing through two slits, but we've had to cover this up because we don't want any light to get in. The light passes through the two slits, goes over to the other side. Instead of a screen over here, we've actually got a camera because this detects really low levels of light. I'm going to see what we see. Actually, up there on the screen, you can see what the camera is picking up. The first surprise is it's picking up dots, blips. This is light travelling through this, but it's arriving as blips, like the sand, as particles. So that's amazing. But have a look at this. If we collect up all these blips, collected over a time period, and have a look at what the pattern is, we see something quite remarkable. The pattern you see is the pattern that waves make. But the light arrives in blips, in packets, as small particles, which physicists call photons. So this is incredible because the light's travelling, making a pattern as though it were going through two slits. Because remember, to make that wave pattern, there have got to be two sources, two slits. The light's got to go through both slits, and yet it's arriving as a blip, as a particle, like the sand. This is the essence of the weirdness, of the spookiness in the quantum world. Now, physicists have been debating these aspects of quantum physics throughout this century. Back in 1927, actually there weren't that many physicists around, and here they all are. In a conference in Solray, there was a great debate about what exactly was going on in the quantum world. In particular, this man, Albert Einstein, won a Nobel Prize for showing that light was actually a particle, was actually made up of these photons. He didn't like this strangeness of quantum physics, the quantum world, whereby the particle somehow seemed to go through both slits at the same time. I mean, which one was it going through? Surely it goes through one and not the other, and somehow we've just got the interpretation of the experiment wrong. Well, he thought that the way out of this problem, of course one has to remember at that time, they couldn't do any of these experiments. These experiments have only become possible very recently because of developments in technology. But he went through a process of thought experiments, and he thought there was something missing in our picture of quantum particles. That somehow these particles of light knew themselves inside which slit they would go through. It's just that we somehow couldn't detect that, we couldn't pick that up. Now he knew it would be really difficult to take a particle of light and actually kind of look inside it. So he set up the following thought experiment. He imagined the following. Now just as nowadays psychologists, when they're trying to work out the character of somebody, they may take a pair of twins and actually separate them out and look at what one does and see if the other one does something similar. Well, that's the type of experiment that he imagined doing. He imagined taking a pair of quantum particles, created it exactly the same moment, and separate them off, and tickle one and see if the other one laughs. Well, let's investigate what precisely would be involved in that. Because it is now possible to actually produce pairs of quantum particles. Today wasn't then, but I need a volunteer to help me. Could you come down? Your name is? Max. Max, just down there. Max, any good at drawing? No. Okay, well now we'll test that. So what I want you to do, I'm going to hand you some paint. I just want you to just slap on the outline of that hand on there. That's it. You're an artist. Perfect. Keep going. Great. A couple more fingers. Brilliant. That's great, Max. Okay, just stand there. Now you're going to help me create a pair of quantum particles and twins. So let's place this on top. Place this, help me place this card on top. Now press down. Smash it down. Go on, all over. That's it. Now hold this up. Now we have a pair here, and we're actually going to separate them off. And Max, you're going to take one, and I'm going to take the other. That's it. Pull them apart. There you go. Sit up. Now, what we've created is a pair. Actually, it's like a pair of hands or a pair of gloves. And Max, I think you've got, well, let's say the right one. I've got the left one. Okay. Now what I want you to do, Max, since we're talking about gloves, I've got a pair of gloves behind my back. What I want you to do, Max, is just pick out one of these gloves. Don't show me. So I'm going to go off. Now, I realize I've lost a glove. Got two opportunities to find out which glove I've lost. I can either go over and interrogate Max. Or I can look at this glove. Because I know they came as a pair. Well, this one's a left one. So Max must have the right one. Max? Great. Okay. Thanks very much. Go and sit down. So I instantly knew something about a glove that was on the other side of the floor, in Max's hands. But that's not so much of a surprise, because after all, they come in pairs. And the gloves knew which was which. Just that I didn't know until I looked. But that's not how things work in the quantum world. And we're going to look at some quantum gloves. And I need to volunteer. Could you come down? Your name is? Emilia. Emilia. Emilia, I'm going to hand you a tray. It's got a box on it. And in this box is a glove. I want you to go and stand over there. That's it. Turn around. And I've got another box. And it's got the other glove in it. But I don't know whether this is a right or a left glove. All I know is, if this is right, then Emilia must have the left. If this is left, Emilia must have the right. But the point is, unlike real gloves, quantum gloves or quantum particles, when they're created as a pair, it's not that they know that they're right or left. Even they don't know whether they're right or left. Inside this box, the quantum glove is at the same time right and left. Now, it should be really clear. It's not momentarily right and then left and then right again. No, it lives a double life. Just like the particle of light that went through two slits at the same time, it's living a double life right and left at the same time. It's only when I look at this glove. It's only when I make a measurement here that Emilia's glove decides what it is. Because it knows it should be the opposite. Emilia, thank you very much. So that's what quantum particles do when they're produced as a pair. They are a pair, but they lead a double life until they're measured. Now, Richard Feynman, a very famous physicist from this century, was convinced that anyone who said that they understood quantum physics, what we've been seeing today, obviously hadn't thought about it enough. Because that's the point. It's so far from our understanding of everyday life that it just doesn't seem to make sense. This is what Einstein didn't like. He couldn't accept that somehow there were things that were undetermined in nature. Undetermined until you looked at them. But unfortunately, Einstein was wrong. Because very recently, 1980s, experiments were done that actually showed that that's the way the quantum world works, that objects live a double life, that two things can happen at the same time. Maybe this is quite useful. Maybe we could use this, this kind of telepathic link between quantum gloves, between quantum particles when they're separated, to do things. One of the first things that was looked at as an application of this spooky action of those distance, as Einstein called it, was actually the sending of secret messages. Now, if I want to send a secret message to somebody up there, what's your name? Danielle. Danielle. I want to send a secret message to Danielle. Well, I could walk over there and whisper it in her ear, but maybe I just can't, maybe we're a long way away. I've got to find some way of sending a secret message. So what I could do, I could take a message, I could stick it in a box, I could lock the box, I send the box to Danielle, and as long as she's got the key, she can open the box. And the secret is safe. So let's just try that. Who should we get to pass the key? Well, do you think Elio is trustworthy? Yeah. Okay, well, let's pass it to Elio and see if he can pass it to Danielle. So, Danielle, do you have the key? Here is the message. See if you could tell me what message I'm sending you. The message is hello. The message is hello, and you are right. And here is the key that we gave to Danielle. That's how she managed to decode the message. And probably no one else actually got that message. Elio got the message. How did he do that? Yes, he looked at the key, and this is the problem. Sure, you can send a secret message as long as nobody else has the key. It's like your front door. Front door is safe as long as nobody else has the key. And this is where the spookiness of quantum physics helps. Because now, instead of sending the key as it is, I'm actually going to send a quantum key. Now, that quantum key I'm going to create in the same way as we created the quantum gloves or the pair of particles. I'm actually going to create a pair of particles, stick one in the box, and put the other one in this box. Now, I don't know which of the two right or left is in each box, but I know that this one is the opposite of this one. And now, I'm going to hand this to Elio. Who is going to pass it on up to that? Oh, Danielle, have you got the key yet? Yeah. But have you opened the box? No, don't... Have you opened the box yet? No. My box is open. And that's it. Elio must have opened the box. Because Danielle hasn't, and my box is open. And that's what quantum physics gives you. Because of this spooky action at a distance. As soon as Elio tried to look at the key, it opened up my box. And he could try and be really sneaky and cover up his tracks and close the box, which he did, and pass it on to Danielle. But he can't close my box, and I know my box is open. Fiction? No, it's fact. It was done very recently with a pair of quantum particles, photons that you saw in that earlier experiment. And they were passed through an optic fiber cable alongside Lake Geneva. And they were sent off a couple of kilometers in either direction. And a secret key was shared between sender and receiver. So this is great, this quantum stuff. But there must be a drawback. And there is. It's actually hard to keep that link going. That link is really quite delicate. I need a volunteer to help me demonstrate how delicate this link can be. What's your name? Sam. Sam, could you come down please? Sam, here are our quantum particles. What I want you to do is set them spinning on the desk. There you go. Set one going. That's it. Push down. Hard. Now set this one going. And you've got to keep them both going at the same time. Doesn't that either one of them drop? OK, that's too easy. Get that one going again. Now pick this one up, because this is all too easy. I'm going to make you go and stand up there. And get it going on the top of those stairs next to the door. Come on, hurry up. You are the quantum link. Top of the stairs next to the door. That's it. Start it going. Come on. Now you better give it a good go, because you've got to get this one up to the top of those stairs. Come on, hurry up. Run, run, run. Come on, you can do it. You might be able to do it. Come on. Push. Now get going. I think that one's... It's kind of... And when you finish with that one, there's one over here that needs a bit of attention. Yeah, this is bad. OK, Sam, you've done very well. Well done. APPLAUSE Well, it's no surprise. Poor old Sam. It's hard to keep the link going for a long time. In fact, with the quantum particles, they're so small, so delicate, that anything, a bit of dust, an air molecule, can just upset them. It's almost like it can flip open the box. Now, our particles, in that case, were these spinning tops. But actually, the idea that something's spinning is really quite close to actually what goes on in an atom. Here we've got a model of an atom. Now just think of these blue rings around the outside. This is where the negative charge goes. This is where the electrons go. What I want to focus on is this red blob at the centre. This is the nucleus. This contains positive charge. And this does have a spin. And amazingly enough, there is a machine in existence, actually used in hospitals all the time, that measures the spin of atoms. It's the spin of the nucleus. And this is it. It's an MRI machine, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. And it really takes photos inside an object. Here's an object. It's an orange. I'm going to see what the inside of an orange looks like. Inside the machine. Come around here. And the machine acts like a camera. It's actually going to start to look inside the orange, because it's actually looking at the spins on the nucleus of the atoms in this orange. It actually picks up the atoms in water. In the orange. And now we see the image getting clearer and clearer, because you see the detail in the orange, without, of course, having to cut it open. That's the advantage of this type of machine, that level of detail, without ever making a cut. So while it's on the right road to looking at the spins, looking at these quantum links, it's not quite there yet. The scientists are now currently very actively looking at these types of machines to see exactly how they can look at the spin of one particle and the spin of another, and see how they relate to each other. See what's going on in these quantum link. What I want to do is just use our imagination for a moment. Because I want to imagine that we could keep these spins, these links going, this magical link between quantum particles, that when separated, still keeps them somehow talking to each other. Because there are some amazing things that one could do. One of the most amazing is teleportation. Now teleportation is exactly what you think it is. Teleportation would take me possibly from here to here, and back here again, without moving. Now I need someone to help me demonstrate teleportation. Could you come down? What's your name? Oliver. Could you stand there, please? Now, Oliver. You are in the transporter room in the Enterprise, and I'm here down on the planet with Captain Kirk. Now, this is a bit of a simple Captain Kirk. He's only got four bits in him. Now Captain Kirk actually has millions of atoms in him. But I just want to imagine there are four bits, four pieces. Now, to teleport Captain Kirk up to the transporter room, what I have to do is get these bits from here on the planet over to Oliver. But actually, it's not enough just to get the bits themselves, because we're all made of the same atoms. We've all got the same things in us. The way these atoms are put together that makes us us. So what we've got to do is we've not only got to transfer the four bits, we've got to transfer the information in these bits as well. So what we're going to do is we're actually going to use the quantum particles, the pair of quantum particles. What we're going to do is, exactly like with the gloves, we're going to separate them off, and I'm going to send one over to Oliver, and I'm going to have the other one. And what we're going to do is I'm going to replace this particle, this bit, on exactly the corresponding bit of Captain Kirk. So when my light goes out over on Oliver's, part of Captain Kirk appears. Because actually what's happened is this bit, this quantum particle, mixed with the corresponding bit of Captain Kirk. And it kind of sucked out the information, and because of this link, this link between these two particles, it transferred that information up to the transporter room. So three quarters of Captain Kirk's on the planet, and one quarter of him is in the transporter room. But we can keep this going. We now separate another quantum pair.  this on here. Now half of him's in the transporter room. There we go. Oh, nearly got. And there we have it. Captain Kirk has disappeared from the planet and reappeared on the Enterprise. Thank you, Oliver. Is that fiction? No, again, it's fact. It's been done, not with Captain Kirk, but with quantum particles. Particles have been teleported, or rather the information in them has been teleported from one point to another. But since all atoms are the same substance, they're the same, if you put the same information in the atom, and it's in another place, it's the same thing. And also notice that in creating Captain Kirk there, we destroyed the information about him here. We couldn't create a copy. So that's been done experimentally. And all this is very recent stuff. There's another possibility with this quantum, spooky action of the distance. And that relates to a computer. Now, we often think of computers doing lots of things at the same time. They're really fast. But inside any existing computer, if you look what's happening at one time in one small part of it, it's only processing a one or a zero. It's all it can do. It's all computers can do. And at any moment, in any one part of it, it's a zero or one. But in the quantum world, things live a double life. They can be a zero and a one, a left and a right. And so we have the possibility of a quantum computer. And again, that's been done in a very small scale, a computer that's been built that runs on this quantum weirdness. And it's extremely fast. In fact, it can do things. It could do calculations that no conventional computer can actually do. Just take the computer far too long. In fact, these ideas of these linkages in the quantum world and the idea of processing information, quantum information, so powerful, it's actually provoked some people to suggest that it has something to do with the brain. Now, we know that the brain can do lots of calculations. But it's surprising that there are no computers that really mimic the brain. We have very powerful computers. But none of them really show any kind of thought or consciousness. And some people have suggested that actually what's going on in the brain, inside the neurons in the brain, there are actually some quantum processes going on, something like a quantum computation. Now, this is highly speculative. But just to show you the power of this type of science. So we've seen that there's something really weird going on related to very small times. But we don't see it, particularly in our everyday world. As we saw, it's difficult to keep the spinning tops going. It's difficult to keep these linkages alive for a long time. And on our times, the times that affect us, minutes, hours, just doesn't happen. And that seems even further away from the kind of times that are involved in the universe. The universe is a really big object. And it's very old, 15 billion years old. But there is a connection, or rather there should be. And scientists are trying to find it. Because the universe is actually thought to be expanding. Now, if it's expanding as time moves on, that means that back in time, it must have come from something smaller. In fact, if we go way back to the beginning of the universe, it must have come from something very, very small. Now, this by now is a rather old idea, but we call it the Big Bang. Because it's thought that at the beginning of the universe, things start in a very quick, small area. In fact, the universe itself was very small, and it started very quickly. But very small and very quick. And it's the quantum world. So quantum physics must have been involved in the Big Bang. That is something scientists are now trying to look at. But it's still not solved. Now, something that does affect the universe and the long times and long distances involved in the universe relates to relativity, an Einstein's theory of relativity. Now, before we try and put together the very large scale effects of the universe of relativity, very small with quantum, I want to take a look at relativity. Because in the second lecture of this series, we actually set about testing Einstein's theory of relativity. Back in the second lecture, John Lavety, who's head of time at the National Physical Laboratory, put on two atomic clocks. When they started off, the two clocks were synchronized within four billionths of a second. And one of his colleagues, Setnam Sheema, actually took one on a flight to Shanghai in China. It's halfway around the world. There he is, just settling the clock down. And there's the clock relaxing. Strap safely in its seat. And here they are arriving at Shanghai. There's the Shanghai newspaper. Without actually taking off the plane, they just turned around and came back. You may have even followed this journey on our website. So let's have a look at these two clocks, which were synchronized to show exactly the same time, and which are super accurate clocks, and therefore shouldn't show any time difference. Let's see what actually occurred. Hello, John. Hi, nice to see you again. Thanks for coming back. John, which of the clocks traveled, and which of the clocks stay here? This is the one that actually you tried to Shanghai that you saw on the video clip there. Yes. And this is a reference clock that we've kept back here in London. It hasn't been anywhere. Right. And we've been monitoring it. So this one has flown. This one hasn't. Right. And presumably, we can now connect them together to see if there's some kind of time difference. You see the times agree on the front of the clocks, but you can't actually perceive the accuracy with which those seconds are taking over. So what we've got here, if you like, are electronic ticks coming out of these two clocks. I'm going to plug them in. I'll just grab this. And what we're connecting to is a special stopwatch. But instead of counting up in seconds or hundreds of seconds, this is counting up in billions of a second. And if you have a look on the computer over here, you can actually see what that difference is. So there it is. From four billionths of a second, the difference between the two clocks is now more than 60 billionths of a second. So this clock has actually experienced a distortion of time. Indeed. It's not jet lagged. It's a real distortion of time. It's a time warp. Yes. Tell us what that time warp's made up of. OK. Well, there's really two factors we have to consider. One is, if you like, the speed of the aircraft, the speed that this clock was traveling out compared to the one that was left behind. And what we calculate from that is that you'd see a difference of something like 25 billions of a second that this would be younger. In fact, what we're seeing, because it's a positive number, this clock is older. And the other factor to consider is gravity. And we do the calculations for the height of the aircraft and the reduced gravity environment there. And that would predict you'd see something like 85 nanoseconds aging for this clock. So the speed makes it younger. The gravity makes it older. And overall, gravity wins out. We're seeing a difference of something like 60 nanoseconds between the two clocks. And we can tie that down completely to relativity. So Einstein was right. And thank you, John. OK. Yeah. APPLAUSE So the clock experienced a time warp. And as John said, part of that time warp was due to the fact that the clock was actually moving through space. If you move through space, you distort time. Time and space are linked. We're not used to this. Normally, we walk around, go on a bus, whatever. And we expect the time to be unaffected. Time just ticks on whether you're sitting down on a bus. But that's not what Einstein said. He said they're linked. We can actually have a look at what the clock would have seen. Because if its time was distorted, if it had been able to look out the window, it would have seen a bit of space distorted. And here we have, first of all, an image of what this is a simulation based on the calculations resulting from Einstein's equations of relativity. This will be the flight in at normal jet airliner speeds. Coming into Shanghai. I hope it wasn't that close to the buildings. But now we're going to see what would have happened if the jet had been able to get closer to the speed of light. Because in this case, there's a distortion. There's a distortion of space. In fact, it's so dramatic that the backs of the buildings can be seen at the same time as the fronts of the buildings. So our clock traveled through time. But John mentioned something else. And that is that gravity has an effect on time. And in order for us to answer the problem of is time travel possible, we have to understand that effect. In fact, we have to understand a little bit more about spacetime itself. And that's what we're going to do. We're going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of spacetime itself. Now, normally we think of space and time as uncoupled. It doesn't matter how you move through space. It doesn't affect time. But what we could do is imagine where we are in space at different times. And for example, take a photo of it and build up photos at successive times. Over here, we've got a bit of apparatus that kind of does that. If we imagine that we start off from this point in space, and this is time coming up along this red line, then as we move around in space at successive times, time slices, we're at different points. Now, nothing can travel faster than the speed of light. So we have to understand how light moves through spacetime. So if we imagine now, instead of this light here being one of us, it's actually a source of light that's going to send out ripples, very much like the ripples on the water. These ripples are going to spread out in time. But instead of just watching a picture of them on the pond, we're actually going to take successive photos of them at later and later times and build up the picture. And this is what we can see here. You see the ripples actually spreading out as time moves on. This is a spacetime diagram. And in fact, what we have here, I think you could see, is the beginning of a cone shape. We've only shown a few times here. But if we took a lot of times and put the rings for the ripples going out and out, now you get a cone. Now, the important point is that none of us can travel fast and speed of light. Nothing can travel fast and speed of light. So any object starting off at the bottom here must stay within this cone. Over here, we've got the same object. It's just that the timeline has been taken to be a bit longer. We have the same cone here. Now remember, everything's got to stay inside the cone. Now, if I'm going to time travel, I need to go back to the same point in space, but in an earlier time. So I need to be able to go from this point in space, which is represented by the red line. It's all at the same point in space. At that time, sometime say two hours in advance in the future, but come back to an earlier moment in time, I need to do this. Looks innocent enough, but look what I've done. I've gone outside of this cone. So it seems like to travel through time, I need to go faster than the speed of light, and that can't happen. But Einstein told us about the effects of gravity as well on time, and that was the second effect that affected our clock, and that's what we want to look at now. Now, probably a lot of you have heard the story of Newton. Looking at the apple, saw it fall, came up with the idea of force of gravity. But what is gravity? What's the force of gravity? I mean, why should there be a force of gravity? Einstein turned around and reinterpreted that result. He said that actually what happens is any object, the sun, a planet, a black hole, you and I, distort space time around us. Now, here we have, just to keep things simple, a 2D sheet, two-dimensional sheet, which is meant to be just a bit of space. It's like a flat table. Now, what Einstein said to us is a mass, like a planet, like us, actually cause a distortion of space around us. But since space and time are linked, he's actually saying there's a distortion of space and time, of space time. How does that understand, help us understand, the falling apple? Well, that planet, if that mass wasn't there, an apple would just sit where it is in space. It wouldn't move around. But the apple grows on trees, on planets, on the earth. And what happens is when the apple sits in a bit of space near the earth, on the tree, and it falls off, it falls down towards the earth because of this distortion of space time. And so that is what Einstein said is gravity. But it's not just apples. Everything falls to a heavier object. In fact, even though light is quite a fast, which is the fastest thing in the universe, light will also be pulled towards a heavier object. This will be a light beam. Instead of going in a straight path, it's being bent towards this. So we can bend light with gravity. But to travel through time, that's what we need to do. We need to bend this light cone over so that this red line never actually leaves the cone. And so this is the key. You've got to use heavy objects, large masses, to be able to travel through time. Now, we don't exactly know what arrangement of masses, scientists are trying to work out what arrangement of masses would let you do exactly this. But I'm going to give you an idea of what could do it. I said masses could actually distort space and space time. In fact, the solutions of Einstein's equations actually come in pairs. They can come in pairs. And they cause two dents in space time. I'm just going to show you what that looks like. Now, this is space time. So if we want to go from one point in time back to another point in time, we actually have to get, say, from here over to here. Now, if I ask you what the shortest route is, well, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 units. Quite a long way. I'm going to show you that our notions of distances can be quite wrong when we deal with space time. Here's a map of the world. It's a flat sheet, two dimensional. If I ask you what the distance is between the United States and Russia, well, on this map, they're quite far apart. But the world is a globe. It's a sphere. And when we look on this globe, here's the United States. Here's Russia. But they're actually quite close. So the idea of a shortest distance for three dimensional object, like the world, cannot be seen from a two dimensional object like a flat map. It's exactly the same thing with space time. We've got no notion of what space time really looks like, because it involves the three dimensions of space that make all of us up, give us some volume. And it's got time. That's four dimensions. And funny things can happen. In fact, I could give you an idea of what can happen. In the following, if we can distort this dent here, more and more down in the third dimension, you can actually see that it's almost like they're beginning to be pulled together underneath the sheet. And this is it. This is the key. This may give us a sense of what's going on. This is the sheet. And this is it. This is the key. This may give us a shortcut in space time. Now, this is two dimensional. But just to give you an idea what that shortcut might look like, it would be something like this. You can imagine just under the sheet, there's a hole to enter and a hole to come out. Looks like only a worm could go through this. In fact, that's what it's called. It's called a wormhole. And there's nothing in the laws of physics that says wormholes can't exist. Just haven't found any. So time travel seems possible. Well, with the help of Ilya and the Royal Institution, anything's possible. And here, we have a wormhole. So let's see what happens when I go into it. I found myself. And that's the problem. That is the argument put up against time travel. It's possible according to the equations. But it's not possible because of logic. Because maybe I tell myself, well, don't study physics, study music. I don't give the Royal Institution Christmas lectures. So how could I have found the wormhole? So how could I have gone back and found myself? Quantum physics helps. Quantum physics helps. Because just as we saw, the particle can have two lives. It's a double life. So it's thought that quantum physics helps out of this paradox. Because when you go back, there are two possibilities. I meet myself, or I happen to miss myself in the corridor. And the history from which I went is the one where I happen to miss myself. Because the universe divides. Quantum world, there can be many universes. They're dividing all the time. Every time a decision has to be made at the quantum level. So run along you or me. Happy birthday, mommy. Um... But what about finding these wormholes? Well, that's where quantum physics helps again. Because although Einstein thought the spacetime was very smooth and flat, reasonably flat, like the sheet, the rubber sheet, quantum physics looks at the very small, the very tiny. And just like, if you imagine, looking down on the surface of the sea, which looks very smooth when you're a long way above. When you get down really into the surface, it's full of bubbles and froth and foam. It's hard to actually say where that surface is. It's not very well defined. And in the bubbles, there can be holes appear. And those holes may even be connected. And they give you natural wormholes. In fact, there may be natural wormholes filling this room, which you don't know. Well, we started off these lectures with a definition for time. We said that time is the period in which events happen. But we've seen that this is actually quite complicated. Because there are events in the quantum world. Which we can't really tell where they are and when they are. There's a kind of undetermined part of nature. And as to when things happen, well, we've seen on the large scale world of the universe, and Einstein's dear relativity, that when something happens, depends on what you're doing, whether you're moving or not, like our clock. And then we've also seen that in our own world, in our own time, that actually we're the ones that perceive some kind of direction of time. And so somehow the process by which we perceive that is also important. Now, quite how all these connect together. We just don't know. That's for the future. In fact, that's for all of you. Thank you. you you you

=== FILE: The Quantum Leap - Neil Johnson's 1999 Christmas Lectures 3⧸5 [I40C4YKTkMA].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Well, I've just clocked in for the third of this year's Christmas lectures on time. Now, time is something that we never seem to have enough of. And part of the reason is because of these things, computers, microprocessors and everything, mobile phones, all these types of gadgets, fast communications. But how fast can all this stuff get? When it turns out to answer that question, we have to look into the bizarre, slightly strange world of quantum physics. Because of the understanding of quantum physics, that we've actually been able to develop all this stuff. It also turns out that it's through quantum physics that we've been able to develop the most accurate clocks that are currently available, atomic clocks giving us atomic time. And it's probably because of our understanding of quantum physics that we may eventually be able to pin down what time itself actually means. So how fast is this quantum world? A volunteer, please. Would you like to come down? Your name is? Laura. Sorry? Laura. Laura. Stand here. Laura. Stand there, please. Stand here. A gearbox. And Laura, I'd like you to turn this gearbox roughly once a second. Just turn the handle of the gearbox. Now there's a pointer on the back of this gearbox. And as Laura turns it roughly once a second, this pointer goes round once a minute. Okay. Thanks very much, Laura. I'm going to stay there. I'm just going to connect a second gearbox, exactly the same as this first one, on the back. Now what's going to happen? Laura, would you keep turning this way? Now that Laura's turning it, this pointer's turning round once a minute. And this second pointer is actually going to be turning round once an hour. We're multiplying up time. Now what would happen if we connected, we carried on connecting gearboxes? Well that's what we're going to do. Actually going to bring on another eight gearboxes. Connect them to these two and see what happens. Laura, would you come and stand here? I'm going to connect up the boxes. Now Laura, carry on turning. You're doing a great job. So as Laura turns this once a second, this first pointer turns round once a minute. And the second pointer turns round once an hour. Now I have a question for all of you. Because all these gearboxes are connected, they're all multiplying up time in exactly the same way. How long has poor Laura got to turn the handle at that end such that the pointer at this end goes round once? So I have some suggestions please. 24 hours. 24 hours? Okay. Any advances? 24 hours? Any more? 32 hours. 32 hours? A month? A month? Six hours. Okay. 10 hours. Okay. Okay. Who said a year? You're the closest. But you're actually still a long way off. Because wait a minute, wait, wait. The answer, I don't think you're going to get it. Because the answer turns out to be 19 billion years. And that is longer than the age of the universe. You could say that it's longer than the age of time itself. So I don't think we'll make poor Laura try and turn it round. Thank you very much, Laura. Now, if you don't believe me, no reason you should, we have here the times. Laura was starting off with one second, goes through a minute, an hour, and then it starts to scale up 150 days, 25 years, and eventually you reach 19 billion years. Okay. Now we're going to run this in reverse. What I want you to imagine is that this pointer at the end down here is now actually turning once every second. So we're going to make it turn once a second. So how quickly is this handle that Laura was turning here? How long is it going to take for this handle to actually go around? Well actually the time is 1,600 million billionths of a second. And this is the quantum world. These are the types of times and the time scales that we talk about in the quantum world. Pretty short, right? In fact, this is far shorter than anything we could possibly imagine. So how is it, first of all, that scientists, the early on in this century, actually hit upon the quantum world? Why do we need the quantum world at all? And that's what we're going to start to investigate. In fact, the story of quantum physics started with an oven, a pizza oven, any oven, just any hot object emitting energy. This is for those kind of individual pizzas here. Got to put on the protective goggles and the gloves. Because when I open this oven up, you're going to see the oven itself is glowing red hot. The light and the heat that's being emitted is actually just waves. They're all part of the electromagnetic spectrum. That's really hot. We know that and we can feel the heat. Some of you in the front might actually be able to have felt that heat coming off. But that's precisely what troubles scientists. If they added up the amount of energy coming off in the electromagnetic waves, and that could be heat or light, the whole range, the amount that they calculated was far greater than the amount that was actually coming out of the oven. In other words, the amount of energy calculated using the wave theory of light that was around the beginning of the century and worked perfectly well for everything else didn't seem to fit the experiment. Now, to show you what's going on here, and to actually show you the experiment that led to the understanding of the energy carried by light, we need to do an experiment involving electric charges. You've seen the machine, now I need the volunteer. Would you like to come up, please? Your name is? Philip. Philip. Now, Philip. This experiment holds you being a king for a day. If you'd like to put on a crown, if you'd like to stand on that, stall. Now what this does, this generates electric charges, and these electric charges are what we need to carry out our experiment on the energy of light waves. So first of all, just show you how it works. I pass this belt around, it generates charges, it passes the charges to the top of this generator. So Philip, would you like to put your hand on top of the generator? OK. Right. So, what I'm going to do now is I'm going to generate charges on the top of the van der Graaf generator, and these charges, because they're all the same charge, are going to try and get away from each other. So they're going to pass on to Philip, and they're going to go to his head. In fact, they're going to pass on to his crown, and the paper on the crown is actually going to rise up. That's great. Well, I think it looks rather good. So what's happened is the charges, because they're trying to get away from each other, they've actually passed on to these pieces of paper, and the paper's flown up in the air to try and separate the charges. OK. Since Philip's still isolated, the charges stay there. If I ask Philip to step down, then it'll all discharge. OK. That's great. Thanks very much, Philip. You're welcome to sit down. So we know how to generate charges, and these charges we're going to now use to investigate the energy given off by light. So here we're going to bring on something that actually involves something like the Van der Graaf generator. In fact, over here we have the equivalent of the Van der Graaf generator, and this plate on top is Philip. Well, Philip's crown. Because what we have here is a gold leaf, two gold leaves that are actually together at the moment, and they're connected to a metal rod, and on top is this metal plate. And it's all part of the same thing. It's all isolated. So I can actually take some charges, and here they're just connected to a, we've just connected this crocodile clip to a circuit. So I can actually place some charges on here, and you can see that just like Philip's crown, the leaves fly apart. But I can discharge it to show how the charges can leave. But I'm interested, not in discharging it with my finger, but I'm interested in trying to discharge this with light. In other words, I'm interested in how much energy I need to actually knock the charges off of this plate, and therefore discharge these leaves. So these leaves are detecting the presence of charges. Now if I come over here where we have the lamp, here I have a control for the brightness, and at the moment we have it set up so that the color of the light being produced by the lamp is actually red. You can see that the leaves are still separated, so there's charge still on the leaves. Now if I increase the brightness of the light, just about see it being increased, the leaves are still separated, so the charge remains on these leaves. Now I'm going to take it down to its dimmest level, and instead of changing the brightness of the light, I'm actually going to change the color. What I'm going to do to change the color is actually go up in frequency. By going up in frequency, I pass from red through to green. You can just about see the green appearing now. When I pass through to blue, there's the blue, leaves still separated, so there's still charge on this thing. Now I pass out of the visible spectrum, and we're going into the ultraviolet. Now you can just about see that we're in the ultraviolet, and these leaves are just about beginning to come together. The color made the charges leave. The color determined whether the charges leave, not the brightness. This was the start of the quantum revolution, because this interpretation, or this experiment to interpret it, if you try to use what scientists knew at the time about energy in waves, it doesn't work. I guess the waves that we're most familiar with, ones at the beach. Imagine we're at the beach. We're going to think about how much energy it would need to move some of the pebbles at the edge of the beach. When it's a calm day, when the waves aren't very big, we wouldn't expect many of these pebbles to actually be moved. But if it was a really kind of rough day, you expect when waves are big, they've got lots of energy in them, they'll do things, they'll kick things, they'll kick the pebbles. The light waves will kick the charges out of that plate. That's not what we saw. Didn't matter how bright the light was. It was the color that determined whether the charges left. It's basically the same problem as with the oven. Somehow the calculation for the energy in a light wave is not giving the right answers, not predicting the right things. It's not agreeing with what's observed experimentally. It's actually Einstein at the beginning of this century who managed to make a breakthrough with this problem. He was particularly interested in the one that we saw with the electroscope. He couldn't understand it. What was wrong with this wave theory of light? So he thought about it and he thought, wait a minute, these charges have got to leave the plate. They must be kind of hit by something. They've got to be hit by something in order to leave. With thinking of light as a wave, can't we think of it as a particle? In fact, that's what he said. That light should be thought of as a stream of particles. I'll take these two snookables. Here's a particle, red. What Einstein was saying was that a red particle of light has less energy than a blue particle of light. What he was saying was that the energy of this particle depended on its color, depended on its frequency. There was a packet of energy and he called it the photon and it was a quantum of energy. That was the birth of quantum physics. We're going to test that out. We're going to see if Einstein can actually explain the experiment we saw. The Einstein's theory works. I need a volunteer for this. A volunteer who's recently been to a fairground. No, can be anyone. Would you like to come up? What's your name? Daniel. Daniel. Any good at coconut shies? Sometimes. Okay, let's see if today is one of those times. So Daniel, what I want to do is first of all, I'm going to pass you these red balls. See if you can knock off one of those coconuts. Aim more than strength. Ah, right, okay. All right, okay, well you've had two hits and nothing's yet come off. Nothing wrong with your aim there. Maybe it's something wrong with the balls. They're soft and they're light. Blue balls? Let's try blue balls. Now these are heavier. Let's see what happens. Oh, you've done this before. Yes. Wonderful, you did it. That's it. Thank you very much. What we just saw is exactly what Einstein was saying. It doesn't matter how many of these red balls you throw, you're not going to dislodge one of these coconuts, which is one of the electrons on the plate. Throw a blue ball and you can do it. The actual energy in the photons is determined by their frequency, by their color. And that's why in the experiment that we just saw, it was the color that was determining when the charges would actually leave the plate. So Einstein was right. In fact, it set off the whole quantum revolution because it turns out that this kind of double secret life of light, the light being a wave, the light being a particle, was actually true for electrons. Now electrons are charges, such as the charges we generated in the Van der Graaf generator. Electrons live inside atoms. But it was J.J. Thompson that discovered the electron. He was interested in these negative charges and he found that he could explain what was going on by saying that there was something called an electron that had a negative charge and it was a particle. But things got a bit complicated in the Thompson household because 30 years later, after his father had been awarded the Nobel Prize for the discovery that electron was a particle, his son George got the Nobel Prize saying electron was a wave. They can imagine what Sunday lunches in the Thompson household must have been like. Slightly complicated. Who was right? Father or son? Electrons are particle, electrons are wave. Well they were both right. It depends on the type of experiment you're doing at the time. That's what determines whether the electron behaves like a wave or a particle. A crueler way of saying it is neither a right because actually the electron is somehow in between the two. Sometimes it just behaves like a wave, sometimes it just behaves like a particle. It's not just photons, quanta of light, it's not just electrons, it's also atoms. Electrons can behave like waves or particles. Well we've got atoms in us, in fact that's all we're made of. So in some sense we also can behave like waves, just that we never see that effect in our everyday lives. Now these ideas of waves and particles and things you'd like to think of as particles also behaving like waves and particularly the electron, change then the vision of what an atom actually is. Now J.J. Thompson, he knew that in an atom there are an equal number of positive charges and negative charges, electrons. He just didn't know where they were. So it being around Christmas he came up with a Christmas pudding model. In fact his model of the atom was precisely negative charges and positive charges, negative charges like the current, positive charges like the nuts. Actually turned out not quite right. This is a student Ernest Rutherford who actually discovered that the positive charges weren't all spread out like the Christmas pudding model, they're actually concentrated in the centre. And so he thought quite understandably. If I've got positive charges in the centre and these negative charges are doing something around then it must be something like the solar system, right? Like the sun at the centre and then all the planets go around. That's what he came up with, so called planetary model. Central, positive charge, negative charges going around. But wait a minute, George Thompson had discovered waves, electrons being waves. The electrons can behave like waves. So where does that put the model of the atom? Well it took Niels Bohr, Danish physicist, who actually came over to study with Rutherford and with Thompson at the beginning of the century. Actually arrived in England from Denmark, couldn't speak any English, he bought the entire works of Charles Dickens with him to learn English. He seemed to do quite well because he read them, worked out how to speak English and then later proposed a model for the atom that actually in a slightly modified form actually survives with us today. That model is over here and we presently understand the model of the atom thanks to Bohr in the following way. The positive charges, yes, are at the centre but the negative charges, the electrons, actually are like waves around it. But how can we understand what this model is telling us? How can we understand what energies the electrons have? So for this I need two volunteers. You two, could you come up here please? Now your name is? Carly. Carly. Carly. Can you stand there? Your name is? Daniel. Daniel, you stand over here. Now what I'd like you to do Daniel, is just turn this skipping rope, just gently, that's it, set it up, steady enough so that it's actually going round. Right, okay. Keep going, keep going, don't stop. So what Daniel and Carly have actually set up is, what a fairly simple wave. It's quite smooth, it's only got one curve in it. So Daniel, it looks too easy. Try and set up the second wave. So that's it, bit faster, bit faster. Yes, well done. Now see what Daniel had to do, he actually had to increase the frequency of his hand. Actually he had to put more energy into this rope. And the net result is of course we've got a wave that's actually got two curves in it. So this wave has more energy. Daniel, you think you can go for three? I'll go for it. Go for it. Okay, come on Daniel. Keep going, yes, yes, yes, you've got three. Yes, well done. What about four? No, I don't. You didn't go up for that much. Okay, right, don't worry. That's great. Okay, thanks very much. So we just saw that the waves that can live on this skipping rope, very much like the waves that can live in this atom, had to have definite frequencies. There was a definite rate at which Daniel actually had to turn that skipping rope to get the waves set up. So it's a definite frequency, definite energy. That's key to understanding the energy of electrons in the atom. And that's eventually going to link in with our measurement of time. But first I just want to show you what happens when electrons get fed up in one orbital, fed up at one frequency, fed up at one energy and they want to change. Well, they can do. It's very much like us in a house. We could spend a lot of time on the ground floor, or we can go up to the first floor. Well, if you want to go up to the first floor, you've got to run up the stairs, have a chocolate bar, gives you a bit of energy, up the stairs you go. You can also come down. But you spend most of the time on one of the two floors. But when you come down from the first floor to the ground floor, you actually give out some energy. Going from a high energy to low energy. What happens, since these are now definite energies, like the definite energies in the skipping rope, well, it's almost the reverse of that experiment we saw with the light in the electroscope. The electron is now going to give out energy, and it gives it out as a quantum of energy, as light. But since it's a definite energy and a definite frequency, it's a definite color. So a photon of light is emitted when an electron passes from the high level down to the low level. Now, in everyday life, we don't necessarily always see the electrons at higher levels. They tend to want to live at low levels. I haven't got enough energy. But everything, I said everything in us is made of atoms, everything in the world around is made of atoms. So all atoms can do these types of transitions. In fact, atoms in, well, this desk in me, oh, in pickles, let's have a look at the quantum physics of the pickle. As I said, we have to supply energy to get the electrons up to the higher levels. But once they're up there, they can jump back down, liberate the energy, goes off as a packet of energy, goes off as a photon. We should see some kind of light come off. Electricity, please. Elia? Whoa. That's like a street lamp. In fact, it's exactly the same principle as a street lamp. Thank you, Elia. So the pickle, this dull, green thing, actually glows orangey. It's an orangey color. That's because the electrons have made the transitions. Okay, well, I hope none of you have actually tried that, and you shouldn't try that. But maybe you've seen the effect in something a little bit more familiar. And for this, I actually have to slip on something a bit more comfortable. Gloves. And my shades. I can't go anywhere without these. Oh, that felt good. That was a quantum effect. It was an ultraviolet light source, very much like in the electroscope experiment. Lots of energy shone down onto the jacket. Molecule is in the jacket. Well, just emitted light. It got excited up to the higher level.  amythid-level, emitted light, in the visible. That's what makes your clothes look white when they come out of the washing machine, when you put the washing powder in. So this is quite useful, these kind of transitions between levels in an atom. For one atom, you can go from the second first level down to the ground and emit light. Now you can imagine, if you had a material where all these atoms were doing the same thing, they're all emitting, but kind of haphazardly, well, you get some kind of light out of it, and it will be reasonably bright. But what happens if you could get them to do it all at the same time, if all the atoms could make a transition down from the first level down to the ground at the same time? Well, we're just going to demonstrate what might happen. Now I don't go around looking for applause, but I'd just like you to just clap. Okay, that's great. But now I want you to think of me as the lead atom, and you're all going to follow in time, do exactly what I do the same time. And now let's see what that sounds like. Okay, great. What you could see is it's much louder when we all do it in unison. So we'd expect far brighter light if all the atoms could be made to make the transitions in unison, and that's exactly the principle behind a laser. Over here, he has the laser source. It produces a very fine beam just passing down the tube, and we've got a balloon at the end. This is a laser-detecting balloon. And we're going to see exactly what happens when we turn up the energy in the laser beam. So he just turned it up, laser beams traveling down onto the end of this balloon could just about see the laser beam. So the balloon is now absorbing the energy of the laser beam. Oh, whoa! Great, thank you very much, Elia. So there's a lot of energy in a laser beam. That was just light. When you shine a torch on a balloon, it doesn't explode. That was a laser beam, and it has a lot of energy in it. By making an atom, or making the electrons in the atom, make transitions between outer levels and inner levels, we get off a definite frequency of light. A definite frequency means a definite number of oscillations per second, an enormous number. And if we were to count those up, we could use that to define the second and to measure the passing of the second. And that's the principle behind the atomic clock. But it's also the principle behind all of this stuff. Because it's our understanding of quantum physics that's enabled us to develop the computers, communications equipment, mobile phones, all the gadgets that we use every day. So I started off asking you how fast can all this stuff get? Well, to see how fast all this stuff can get, we need to understand just a little bit about how all this works. The computers, while it looks complicated, it's actually quite easy how it works. This is one of the first computers. It's obviously hand operated. It's an abacus. If I want to add together, here we have 1s, 10s, 100s, 1000s. If I want to add together, for example, 6 and 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and then I add another 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, that makes 10. That registers a 10. But of course, it's got to be fairly skillful to do this quickly. And it'll be nice to have a mechanical device that did it. And it was actually this man, Charles Babbage, who gave us the designs that actually formed the basis of our present day computers. Now, Charles Babbage was actually motivated for this by a very real need. There were a lot of ships being lost at sea. They were using these navigation tables that were around at the time, with calculations made by hand. And a lot of the errors in there, he thought, could be avoided if it would only have a machine that could actually carry out these calculations and check the tables. So he came up with an invention for such a machine. In fact, he was interested in all machines that kind of add and subtract and keep track of data in a kind of ordered way. He even developed a clocking in clock for a factory, which he used at the beginning of the lecture. So his first machines were very much like clocks. They had cogs in them, had spindles and cogs, and they worked in a very automatic, sequential type of way, very much like a clockwork of a clock. In fact, around the same time, a company that we now know as Making Computers, IBM, used to be called the International Time Recording Company because there's such a similarity in the technology for building clocks and building computers. Of course, nowadays, we don't have any of that stuff, any of that mechanical stuff. It's all replaced by electronics. Computers like this use special kind of maths. So in order to understand how fast they can get, we ought to check out what that maths is. And over here, we've got part of the audience who volunteered to be a computer. So could you just hold up your numbers, please? Now, what we've got here is at the back, we've got the numbers 1, 2, 4, 8, which are actually powers of 2 because that's how a computer works. It works with zeros and ones. It adds up to two. So it works with zeros and ones, which are called bits, binary digits. So these are the, what we're going to see, these are the numbers of 1, 2, 4 and 8 that we're actually holding up. They're just the register at the back. These are the guys who are actually going to do the storing of the numbers. And at the moment, we see we have no ones, no 2s, no 4s and no 8s. So we're registering the number zero. So I think we'll add 1 to this computer. So just turn your number over. No, no, no, you not, no, that's it. It's a fast computer, but it's not that fast. Okay, so we're registering 1. Let's add another one to it. So that makes 2. So you turn yours over, you turn yours back. So now we're registering the number 2. Add 1 to it, makes 3, turn yours over. Now we're onto 4. Now you turn yours around and you two turn yours back to zero. We're up to 4. 5, 6, 7. You have to work the hardest. 8 is now 1 on the end and all of you back to zero. No, you keep yours as a 1 and all you zero. That's it, that's 8. Thank you very much the computer. APPLAUSE So that's what computers do. They actually process ones and zeroes. But how do they do it? Computers are physical things. They're physical machines. They need to be made of something. So we need to understand that. This is what they're made of. This is actually a block of silicon. So you don't need the whole block. All you need to do is just shave off a slice of it. And this is what I've got here, a silicon wafer. In fact, it's already had printed on it a number of circuits, I believe around 50 on here. So the silicon wafer is actually cut up. A bit of it is placed in this, which is a microprocessor. It's a bit difficult to see what's going on. So we're going to bring on a microscope. I'll hand it over to Elia, who's going to have a look. So Elia, if you could just line that up for us please. Now what you can see, we just caught the edge of one of the leads on that silicon chip. So Elia, if you move across and let's have a look at the transistors, and actually so small of course, you can hardly see them. This is really incredible the way that they get all of these detail onto this silicon chip. Thanks very much Elia. Now there's a reason that it has to be so small. The reason is quite simply, that if you want to make something very fast, you don't want to spend a lot of time shuffling the data across the chip. So that's why the drive for computers is to make them smaller. It's not just so that they fit in the pocket, so that they're faster. And here we can see a chip in action. And what we're actually seeing, every time the lights come on, we're actually seeing which bits of this chip are actually processing the data. It's almost like looking at a flow of traffic through a city. We're seeing which of the roads are actually carrying cars at any particular moment. But all that's just technology. What does physics say about the ultimate limits of data processing? How fast are our lives going to get using these high-tech devices? That's what we're going to start to look at now. First of all, we have to see not only how fast the computer is, how fast is a communications network in general? Well here, I've got set up a program that will actually just send a message somewhere in the world. It's actually sending it to Minneapolis, sending it to Minnesota in the United States. So if I press return on this, so what's happening is that this machine is actually sending out a message, actually four times, and timing the flight of the message to the United States and back. And here's the average down here, 116 milliseconds. That's quite fast. Go all the way to Minneapolis and back. But if we work out how long it would have taken light to travel that same distance, it actually works out to be 30 milliseconds, which is .03 seconds. So the message actually only traveled about a quarter of the speed of light. So while it's fast, it's not quite fast enough. There's plenty of room for improvement. But why can't we send messages at the speed of light? Well let's have a look at what happens when you try to send messages quickly. For this, I need your help. In fact, I need the help of two rows in the audience up here. Now, you two rows, what I'd like you to do is I'm going to show you two on the end a message. I want your neighbors to turn away. Just have a look, memorize it, pass it back. Right. Now I'm going to come down to the front. Now you two rows are two communications links. And when I say go, I want you to whisper the message to your neighbor and pass it on. When it gets to the end, put your hand up. Okay? You two at the end. So ready? Are you ready? Put your hand up if you're ready. Great, part of the network's ready. Okay? One, two, three, go. And now it's a race because we're all trying to decide which network to subscribe to. So come on. Get that message down. Oh, I think this row one. Okay. Now, could you tell me what the message was? ABCDE. ABCDE. ABCDE. You're both wrong. Not by much. It's A, B, D, C, E. So you can see what happens when you try to send messages quickly. Errors creep in. That's why taxes and other people who use mobile communications often say things like alpha, foxtrot, Romeo. They make the message longer if they're trying to say A, F, R. They make the message longer to try and correct any errors to at least reduce the possibility of introducing errors. So we can see that there's some kind of limit on the actual transmission of the data. But when we send a message from London to Minneapolis, we're not only passing through optic fibres and through satellite links, we're passing through some machinery, some computers that are actually going to route this data. So how can we make the machines faster? Well, the machines are made of silicon, or at least the active bits of them are. And silicon is nothing other than sand. So scientists are currently looking at other materials that might actually have faster transitions for their electrons between levels, that might actually make faster transistors for computers. And here are some of the things they come up with. It's a lump of coal. It's actually the carbon in this. It has some very interesting and possibly useful electronic properties. Kling film. Actually, this is made up of polymers. And these are very long molecules. These can act like wires in a circuit. And here's a bit of spinach. Personally, I don't like spinach, but I wouldn't mind it in a computer if it made the computer faster. It turns out that the molecules that make spinach, spinach, actually have some very fast electronic processes in them. And that could be very useful for future computer technology. So that's one thing you could do. You look for new materials. There's another thing you could do. You could try and get these electrons to behave properly. Now, each of these chips contains lots of electrons doing lots of things. If you could get the electrons to all behave together as a crowd, a group together, not only might that be good for storing data, you actually might be able to pass on data throughout the computer quickly without introducing the kind of errors we saw up there. And this is where scientists are turning to quantum physics to look for possible ideas. I'm going to show you an effect of quantum physics, which is currently being investigated to actually include in computers. Now, what Ilya is bringing on is a tray containing something called a high-temperature superconductor. That's that gray blob in the middle. But the high-temperature superconductor only behaves as a superconductor at very low temperatures. That's why he's poured in liquid nitrogen into this. Because what happens is, as you lower the temperature of this superconductor, the electrons in the material get a chance to actually act as a crowd. Usually they're kind of being buffeted around by the other atoms in the material. But when you lower things down in temperature, they can act as a crowd. In fact, what they do, and hence the word superconductor, is that this crowd is so strong that it can kind of march through the material without any resistance. In fact, that's the key. It's no resistance. It's a superconductor. And we're going to see what the effect of that is. Because if there are electrons marching around as a group, that's actually like a current. And the current gives rise to a magnetic field. So I'm going to put on these goggles. And we're actually going to check out what magnetic field and whether there's a magnetic field coming out of this material. And therefore, if it's acting as a superconductor. What I'm taking here is a tiny magnet that I'm actually going to place on top of the superconductor. Oh, although I tried to place it on top and it's actually floating. So this is bizarre, but that's what you get in the quantum world. So that's where things are at. That's what scientists are trying to do to speed up electronics communications. What does nature say would be the ultimate limit? Now, if we think back to our atom here, and we think about our computer, remembering that the computer actually acts basically like a clock. A lot of these chips here are adding up numbers, but a lot of them are actually acting as a clock to regulate the traffic on the chip. Now, how fast could that clock get? Well, this thing runs at about 300 megahertz. That's 300 million cycles per second, 300 million oscillations per second, 300 million times per second, that this chip sends out an instruction to the rest of the machine. But if we look at the atom and we ask, well, what's the frequency associated with a transition between this outer level and the inner level? Or what's the frequency associated going from the first floor to the ground floor? We actually get a million times this, a million times 300 megahertz, million times faster. So that's bad news for future Christmases because they'll always be a faster machine. But clocking the information is only part of the problem. If we're trying to build a super-duper computer, we actually need to store the data somewhere. And smaller means faster. So let's think about the limits of storage given by nature. Let's have a look at this atom. We have two orbitals. The electron could be in the inner one or the outer one. The electron is on the ground floor or the first floor, 0, 1. This is very much like the binary digit needed for a computation. So how small a piece of material would you actually need to store all the information from all the printed books in the world? That's what we're going to look at. And I need to volunteer. Your name is? Zen. Zen. Would you take this one and go to the top of the stairs and just stand there, turn around and hold up your one? And I also need this row to help me with the calculation. So we're going to start off by thinking, how many countries are there in the world? We're only going to do it roughly. So we're going to guess, what, 100? We're going to put 100 up there. So would you two stand up with your zeros? That's it. 100 countries in the world. How many major libraries do each of these countries have? Should we say 10? Yeah, 10. Would you stand up with a zero? How many floors on each one of these major libraries? Should we say it's a 10 floor building? Okay, would you stand up with a 10? How many shelves on each of the floors? Well, let's overestimate. Let's say a thousand. Would you stand up, the three of you, with zeros? How many books per shelf? Infinity. Infinity. Let's say a hundred. Would you two stand up? Now, how many pages per book? Well, let's overestimate again a thousand. Would you three stand up with zeros? How many lines per page? Should we say a hundred? Could you two stand up? How many words per line? Should we say 10? You stand up with a zero? How many characters per word? 10? Stand up with a zero. Now, any one of these characters could be any one of the characters on a keyboard. There are 26 letters. There are also numbers and punctuation. So let's say a hundred possible characters. So you two stand up with zeros. And there we have it. So one followed by a hundred, two, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eighteen zeros. Ten to the 18 bits of information in all the printed books in the whole world. Now, if each atom could store one bit, a zero or a one, how much, what size of device would we need to store this information? So you can sit down now. Thank you. What we're going to do is we're going to bring on the ultimate atomic storage device. We're going to bring on the device within which, if we were using atoms as storage, we could actually store all that information, those 10 to the 18 bits. So, Elia, would you bring on the ultimate atomic storage device? It's coming on. A little bit heavy. Thank you. Let me open it up. But it's empty. In fact, it's not quite empty. Because somewhere down here, there is a grain of sand. Because that's all you need to store all that information. One grain of sand. But oh, if life were that easy, we store ones and zeros on atoms. But the quantum world hasn't finished with this yet. The quantum world and physics has a sting in its tail. It goes back to the beginning of the lecture. The beginning of the lecture, we said particles were also waves. So if you're trying to build a computer, you're trying to keep your electrons on one atom or another, you can't quite do that because they're waves. You never quite know where they are. In fact, the idea of this uncertainty is very similar to what would happen. If you took a photo first with very high speed shutter, there I am. There I am. But what speed am I going at? Okay, let's slow down that shutter speed. Well, I'm obviously moving to the right because that blurring is giving an indication now of my speed. But where am I? Now that is the root of the uncertainty at the basis of quantum physics. And so if we're trying to shrink down computers and trying to use atomic systems to build clocks, eventually we hit that uncertainty. So we should think probably not in terms of a computer, but a quantum computer, and not in terms of a clock, but a quantum clock. Now that's all for the future. We'll be discussing a bit more about that in the last lecture. But in the next lecture, we'll be looking at how certain we can ever be about the future. Thank you. If you'd like a copy of the booklet that accompanies this year's lectures, please send a check or postal order for £4.95, made payable to BBC Education, to Arrows of Time, P.O. Box 7, London, W12, 8 U.D. Credit card orders by Telephone on 0990 100 789. Thank you.

=== FILE: Why chocolate melts and jet planes don't - Mark Miodownik 2010 Christmas Lectures 2⧸3 [yp9grWPch5A].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Hello, hello. It's lovely to be here. Thank you so much for a great welcome. My name is Mark Mia-Dovnik and I'm a material scientist from Kings College London. I'm going to take you on a journey tonight into stuff, into materials. It's going to be a journey into inner space. And we're going to find down there, we're going to find the secret to how jet engines work and how they are so amazing and the taste of chocolate. You can't ask for further than that, can you? So look, let's go on this journey. I want to just show you what I mean. But before I do that, I just want to say to all of you here and all of you who use at home that in about half an hour's time through this lecture, we're going to do a mass chocolate tasting. Everyone in here is going to taste chocolate at the same time. Everyone at home is going to taste chocolate at the same time, hopefully. So if you're at home now and you want to join in, then you need to get someone to get you chocolate. You don't want to leave now because you're going to miss some amazing stuff. So go and find someone to get you chocolate. Shout out. Get someone to get you some chocolate. You guys in here, don't worry because we're going to give you chocolate. So are you ready? Let's go. So when I just start with some of the things that we are going to see, this just looks like any old liquid. Nothing that remarkable. Looks a bit like oil, just a black liquid. But if we get a camera over here, I can just show you. Look, there's a bit of black liquid. Now I put a magnet underneath and suddenly it's a solid. Oh, a liquid. Oh, a solid. That doesn't seem right, does it? How weird is that? Now I'll show you something even weird of this liquid. Whoa. Now watch this, guys. I put this under here. Now there's a magnet on top of there. And if I wind this up closer to the magnet, oh, you see that? Now they love the magnet. They love it. They love it so much they're going to try and reach it up. Look at that. And actually, flowing up. Again, have you ever seen a liquid flow up hill? How incredible is that? So this is a ferrofluid. It's stuffed full of magnetic particles. It looks like a liquid, but it's much stranger than that. It's stuffed full of little magnetic particles. I'll just let that go for a minute and show you something else which is even stranger. How could something be even stranger than that? You ask. Good question. Let me show you. This is a piece of metal. It just looks like a wire, doesn't it? Nothing remarkable about that. But watch this. That's not right, is it? Now look, how can this be? Turns out that we've got some metal atoms in here and we've trained them. That sounds weird, doesn't it, to train metal atoms. But they have been trained. And they've been trained to know who their neighbors should be and so that they have a particular shape if they all get next to their neighbors in the right way, in the right orientation. But when I pulled it apart, I separated the right neighbors. So now it's not in the right shape. And I can jog the memory. I can let the neighbors get back to each other and then recover the shape of the paperclip just by giving them a bit of heat. That's a bit of energy. They jostle around. They find the neighbor they want and off they go. So watch this. Oh, it's crazy stuff, isn't it? So this is the world. Yes. Come on. Let's hear it for me and me. This is the strange world I'm going to introduce you to. And it's just absolutely marvelous. Materials are marvelous things. And what makes them marvelous is that at different scales, so different sizes, they behave in completely different ways. And if you could start to understand that, you can do miraculous things like I just showed you. So I've started off with something really bizarre. Now I want to go to something that you know very well and it seems kind of mundane. And I'll show you that even changing something mundane can do quite strange things. Okay, I've got a piece of iron here. It's quite heavy actually. It's a big thick piece of iron. I'm going to put some goggles on because over here we've got what is basically a giant Bunsen burner. And outside here we've got something called an air mover and whatever I put underneath this will shoot it into the flame. You'll see why in a minute because I don't want to do it with my hands. So okay, so if we like the Bunsen burner, okay, brilliant. Thanks, Andy. Now I put the iron into the flame and we'll see what happens. Shall we? A big piece of iron into the flame. Okay, let's have it up. Nothing happened, did it? A bit of an anticlimax. Okay, now I could have left that in there for an hour, a day. And this wouldn't have changed really. We've got red hot. It had got a bit more rusty and nothing else would have happened. Okay, same material, iron, but this time in a powder form. Here we go, iron powder. And you might want to have a quick look at this so it just approved you. It's just a piece of iron powder, right? Now, so all we've done is changed the size of this material. We've chopped it up into little iron filings and now I'm going to put it in the flame. Yeah, I'm not going to put it directly in the flame because that would be a really bad idea. Okay, that's it. Now how could this be? What's happening here? Well, what we've got is a very large piece of iron and a very small piece of iron. Now in the large piece of iron, all the atoms, the iron atoms are mostly in the middle of it and the few that are on the outside, they can react with oxygen in the air and they like to do that. But once they've reacted on the outside, they form a barrier and so the ones on the inside don't get a look in and everything just stops. Oh, I've to put these on. Okay, so I'm going to put this in the flame. I'm going to put this in the flame. I'm going to put those there. But for the powder, all of the ions on the outside of the powder, it's ready to react with the oxygen. So all we have to do is give it a little bit of heat. That sort of explodes. It opens up even more. That explodes some more. You get a mini explosion and that literally is how fireworks are made. Different metal powders are in fireworks for different colors. It's not just true of iron. If you reduce anything in size, it becomes more and more flammable. You can do this with custard powder. Honestly, you get enormous flames. If you shrunk us down into a powder, we too would burst into flames. Okay, so just watch it on your old shrinking. So, okay, so that's what it's like when you make things small. Different things happen. But what is this world of the small that I'm talking about? And I want to just show you because I've got a little microscope here and I want to introduce you to this world of the small if you've not seen it before. Basically, anything you put it on, you can see. So here's the back of my hand. Oh, this is not so bad, is it? Here we go. I've seen it many times. I know it really well. Here's, if you think that's er, if you wait until you see this, this is what my face looks like. Come on, this is me. I'm in the room. Let's get off me. I'm so self-centered, aren't I? All right, let's get my shirt. Look, even something as simple as a button at this scale looks amazing, doesn't it? Wow. And this guy, Ted Baker, has obviously broken into my house and written his name or buttons without me knowing. You've got to check these things with your microscope all times. Okay, look, so it's a wonderful place, this microstructure. So why don't we play a game? I'm going to show you the microstructure of some household objects which you know very well and, but you've probably never seen them at the scale and you have to guess what they are. How about that? Okay, so here's number one. Are you up for this? All right, just say nothing if you are. All right, here, what's this? That was the cloth. What's this? Go on, shout it out. And, okay, you guys are good. All right, I thought it was going to be, isn't it beautiful though, a sponge? Let me just show you that again because I'm quite proud of it. Isn't that beautiful? Now, all right, here's another one. What's this? What's this? Oh, some sort of bubbles in some sort of surface. That's a kind of, what's that, a pigment? So what is this? Anyone? A cup. Fantastic. Brilliant. This is a teacup, a beautiful porcelain teacup. And those bubbles are tiny microscopic bubbles in the glaze of the cup. And the Chinese spent 2000 years perfecting that effect to give it a really beautiful luminescent feel. All right, so if you can understand these microstructures and you can change them, you can do fantastic things. They don't just look beautiful down here. The physics that dominates at the different scales changes everything about the material. So let's try and understand how physics changes with scale. And I want to do this with a game, one of my favorite games. And I've got a guest to play it with. All right. Yeah. So tell us a bit about yourself. What's your name? Jamal Anderson. And what are your basketball credentials? I play for the professional team at six pirates and Great Britain under 20s. I just wondered if you can do us a favor. Can you do a penalty shot? I know this is really under lots of pressure. The TV cameras are going to expect an audience. You're not going to make it, I'm sure, but could you give a go? Oh! That's impressive. Okay. Now look, I'm going to change the game because I feel I'm a disoriented. What I'm going to do is we've made the hoop smaller and we've made the ball smaller. Now that should in a way make it easier for you, shouldn't it? So can you try and shoot a penalty now with a smaller ball? And actually the hoop isn't that much smaller. It's lower. I mean, have a go. All close. You're good. All right. Now let's make an even smaller one. Now I'm going to let you go a bit closer than here, but actually literally it's downhill all the way from your height, isn't it? And that should be peasy for you. And look, a tiny little ball. But it's not that tiny. You should be like, I'll just have a go at this. Oh! Well, look, thank you very much. That was really unfair of me, wasn't it, really? Because, you know, he's used to playing with a certain size ball, but what we were doing is changing the size of the game and we were changing the relative magnitude of two forces. One is gravity. So as the ball got smaller, gravity had less and less. It was exerting a smaller and smaller force on it. And the other was air resistance. So as the ball got smaller and smaller and smaller, its relative area got larger. So air resistance became a much bigger factor. And of course it's very hard to calculate it when someone springs that on you. But this is, in general, what happens in life. As things get smaller, different physics dominates and it changes the game. And I've got actually here, I didn't want to mention this, I thought you'd just hit me, but I've got a tiny microscopic basketball court down here. Look at this. And I was trying to play earlier on this. It's really difficult. Look at those balls. Oh, they're sweet. Here's a tiny needle which you might use to sew. Look how small the balls are in comparison to the needle even. You see how they're sticking to it? They're just sticking to the needle automatically because at this scale, surfaces become very sticky. And if I try and bring them over to the court, the balls, and then I try and, alright, here we go. And I'm going to try and bounce them a bit. I can't even get them off the needle and they just don't move, they won't roll. In fact, they won't bounce. It's just hopeless at this scale because the balls won't bounce because the surface forces, as soon as the ball hits it, just sucks it down. And gravity is so small on those balls that it doesn't have, it's not exerting a great rebound ball force. So ants wouldn't be able to play basketball. Presumably they have other games they play with different rules. So if you could, is it true then that if we could understand the different physics at different scales, we could make some kind of crazy, interesting technology? Well, yes. Let me give you an example. You know what it's like when you're going for a walk and it's the summer's day in Britain? You put your coat on, of course, because even though the sun's out, as soon as you put your coat on, clouds come over, don't they? And the rain starts to fall and then the wind gets up, doesn't it? And you're walking, you're still enjoying yourself because it's a lovely day and you're getting a lot of fresh air, but then the leaves start falling on you. But it's okay because it's really good to clear the head, isn't it? A good winter's day and then you're like, okay, I've had enough. I've had enough. I've had enough. Something stick to you in those moments of sort of weird summer walks. Look, I've got one here sticking to me and it's these weird burrs and they kind of weirdly, amazingly sticky things, but they don't seem to have glue on them. So how do they work? If you're a material scientist, the first thing you do is you get your microscope out and you have a look under the microscope at them. Can you see these weird little hooks? Isn't that amazing? And it's those tiny little hooks that get into your coat and what they're doing is they're latching on to a piece of wool or cotton and that's the stickiness. And it's really very very effective. And of course these have evolved to stick to animals coats and to spread the seed of the bird tree, but could we use that to make a sticky technology that would be useful perhaps? We could. Well, a guy called Georges de Mistral, a Swiss engineer 50 years ago had the same idea. So in case you're thinking of going out now and paiting this idea, you're too late. In fact, you're so late, I imagine that almost all of you, in fact, I guarantee all of you have a piece of this technology in your house and maybe probably on you now. Has anyone here got Velcro shoes you have? All right. Would you mind coming up and just showing the shoes? Okay, yeah. Hello. Hello. What's your name? Rosie. Rosie. Now look, Rosie, this is going to sound like a weird thing to ask you, but could you take off your shoe and show it to me? Is that going to be a danger zone? No. Okay, brilliant. Okay, fantastic. Okay, do you mind just have a look at it? And you can come and have a look at it too under the microscope. So here we go. Now let's have a look at your Velcro shoes under the microscope and let's see what we see. Well, we see a range of hooks. Look at that. And that's just loops of nylon. Can you see how they've been made? Nylon has been cut in the middle. Does that make sense? And so it's those little hooks that are mimicking the hooks of the burr. And the other side of the Velcro is here and it's just a bit of kind of nylon mesh. See that? The other thing is it's kind of infinitely reusable. It records your life in a way because it stays with you such a long time. For instance, it picks up bits about it. Look down here. See, look. That tells me that you used to have a boyfriend who had a red sweater. Am I right? Am I? No. Well, look, thank you for being a great sport and you can go back to the... So we can stick small things, bags, shoes, and it's really convenient. But on, off, on, off, you don't have to look at how it latches. But can we stick big things? How big can we get? Outside, we've got the biggest piece of Velcro we could find and we've got two volunteers to help us try it out. Okay. You ready? What's this? Oh! Okay. Thanks, guys. So look, once you've got the hang of this Velcro thing, you sort of think, wow, we could really do some great stuff with this. Why don't we scale it up? Let's have massive, giant Velcro. Well, look, for the first time ever in the Royal Institution, we've got giant Velcro and we thought, well, you know, let's try it out. So I need, I need four volunteers to help me with this. Yes. Okay. Brilliant. All right. You, yes. And you, yes. You, yes. This could be a new step forward in technology. So what I'm going to try and do is I'm going to try out this giant Velcro. So it's a bit heavy and it's too handle-tick. You think you two could manage that? Is it, is that all right? Is that not too heavy? And you guys, you've got actually the heavier bit. Sorry about that. Are you all right there? Fantastic. Okay. Right. And look, we've exactly scaled Velcro up proportionally. So these two bits and the, and the thickness and the length, everything's the same. Let's see if it works. Okay. Off you go, guys. In the middle. Yes. Now, that should have stuck. So we'll test. Pull it apart slowly first just to see. Yes. Okay. That sort of works. Fantastic. So the first part of Velcro works when you scale it up. Now, the genius of Velcro is that you can get it, you can unstick it easily, right? So let's try and unstick it easily. Why don't, yeah, you, you try and tear that, that way. That's not really working though. It's about to pull it out. Okay. Okay, guys, put this in the middle. If you just put that down there in the middle, yeah. Fantastic. Okay. Thanks very much, guys, for trying out the gel Velcro. Thanks very much. Yeah. Okay, so look. The, the unsticking doesn't work very well when you scale it up. Did you notice that? They had to actually use their hands, which is, would be difficult if you were doing it with your own little, un, un, unstrapping your, your shoes. And, and why is that? Well, we've scaled it up exactly. So we've got scaled up all the material dimensions. And actually when you scale up nylon, which is what it's made from, this is, this is what you get, this stuff. And it's, it's actually not very, it's flexi. It's quite stiff at this scale. And so the genius of Velcro is that at this, when you're unsticking something, the little heads, these things here, they, they flick back really easily. If you have a look, you'll see they flick back really easily. And that noise it makes, that scratching noise, I make it now, like that. That's these, that's these little rods vibrating after they flicked. Right. So that's, that's where the sound comes from. In fact, did you know that the military have silent Velcro? Yes. Interesting, isn't it? I mean, you can sort of expect that. But, so look, the thing is that you can't just scale things up and expecting to work because the physics changes. And the physics we're relying on here was elasticity. And actually by scaling up the dimensions, that didn't really do us any good. So sticking works, but unsticking doesn't work. Let's think about delving even deeper into this microstructure and looking at different forces down there and seeing what else we can manage to do. And I've got something here that really is marvelous. And it's a much smaller scale than Velcro. And it's on this little tiny silicon chip here. And it's, it's a machine. It's called a, it's a little MEMS machine, microelectronic device. And it's, it's smaller than the width of a human hair. So even though I'm showing you this little device here, but you, there's no way you can see it. We need a really strong microscope to see what I'm talking about. And just so happens, we've got one. We've got an electron microscope outside which uses electrons to see instead of light. And it can see incredibly tiny things. Fantastic. This is great. Hello. So this is an electron microscope. This is John. Hi, my, hello. And this is Kelly. He's doing the tilt. And we've got one of these sheets inside this microscope. It's in there. So it's on a sample holder and it's in deep in this machine. And this is the visual output from machine. So, so John, what we've got here is, is I'm right, just to get the scale, isn't it? Yeah, we've got one of your machines. We planted it in this field of Velcro to give you some idea of the scale. So you can see the Velcro hooks here. Let's we take the mag up. You can see we've put another scale. So this is Velcro. And we're zooming in to see the machine behind it. And what else is behind it? Oh, well, that's a headlouse. A headlouse? Yes. So that's, that's, that's, that's, that's what we've, a knit. A knit, if you want to, yes, if you must. I'd say with the bane of my childhood. I used to fall out of my, so can I see it face to face? I've never actually seen one face to face. It looks like a weird kind of cactus. Oh, look at that. So if you look here, human hair would occupy this sort of space. Right. So this thing's about the width of the human hair. Yeah, it's about twice the width of the human hair. Amazing. Because it has to grip. Yeah. So it puts its legs around and grips the human hair. It looks like these weird hairs all over it. And behind it is the machine we're talking about. It's, it's, it's, it's type of micro mechanical machine. Wow. These little, look at those holes. So that these are all moving parts, aren't they? They are indeed. Yeah. So all these, this is a machine that moves and its features are a thousandth of a human hair width. Yeah. Ralph? Yes. These holes are about five microns. So. Absolutely amazing to be able to make machines at this scale that you think. Smaller than the hair on a, on a, on a kind of head lice. That's incredible. So why would we want to make machines this small? So you're all used to smartphones and tablet computers that do cool things. Like they change the screen to suit which way up you're holding it. Right. So they, they, they basically know which way up is. Now that's, that's really cool because this is an electronic machine, but it knows which way gravity is pointing. Now how can you do that if you're an electronic machine? Well, the basic principle is this. You have some sort of rod and a mass. And if it's in this orientation, you know which way gravity is because it's down. If you turn it, the rod bends because of the mass. And so now you know that down is that way because it's deflecting that way. So what these things do is that they, if you measure that deflection, you can know which way down is. So you do that, it goes that way, and you do that, it goes this way. So, so essentially these, what these are called accelerometers, they measure forces and they measure the direction of the forces acting on it. And in the case of gravity, that's very useful to know which way, which way an image is up. So I want to show you what the accelerometers in these types of machine look like under the microscope. Okay. You can see it's made out of silicon and the great thing about making it out of silicon is it's integrated into a silicon chip. So it works at a scale where electrostatic forces are dominant. But the, it changed in the electrostatic forces because these two things are nested together. So if they separate slightly because of, they've changed an orientation because you turned it, the small amount of electrostatic charge that changes is very easy to monitor. So it's not just that it can do cool things for you, it can save your life too. Wow. Okay. Fantastic. A little car. So what's this got to do with it? Well, this was my first ever car. Well, it wasn't really. But anyway, I wish it was. I wish I had been that kid. Okay. Now in the front of all cars, any, every car that's made now and in the front of this car, which has been retrofitted, is one of those accelerometers. And it's measuring forces, right? By the, by the changing, by weights moving around and the electrostatic forces in it. And that gives a readout, a little electronic readout that goes into this silicon chip here. So there's a computer in your car and it reads out the forces from the accelerometer. So this car knows what forces are acting on it. So I'll show you, we've got a readout of the accelerometer. If I hit it there, you can see a little force is registered on there, right? You're wondering what that red line is. We've set that red line as the maximum force this car would like to have on it before it thinks it's in a crash. So below that, there we go, a little one like that, and it's not going to deploy any safety measures. If it hits a big force, it thinks we're in a crash, I better save, I better deploy some safety measures to save my passengers. Fantastic. Shall we try it out? Now, I think what we want to do is sort of set this car on a kind of collision course with a wall, maybe there. Are you guys okay with that? Are you? You want to stay there? Can I ask you guys to move over here? Is that all right? Just for the moment. And you'll get a better view of the crash, honestly. Right, fantastic. We've got our crash site already prepared. Well, it wouldn't be a real crash unless we have a passenger, would it? Are there any volunteers? Yes. Okay, good. A good volunteer. Fantastic. Good. Have a round of applause. Okay. Crash test dummy. Clunk click every trick. You don't hear that these days, do you? All right. It's now, oh, I've got that wrong. Okay, let's put over the shoulder. Right. How are you feeling? What's your name? Should have asked you that earlier, shouldn't I? Crash test dummy. I don't think you're a dummy. Okay. Fantastic. Crash test dummies in place. Okay, here's the arming button. This is so James Bond. Arming the safety measures. Okay, it's armed. You're going to count down. Five, four, three, two, one. How are you feeling? Okay, a bit shocked. I know. Fantastic. Yes. All right. Off you go. Anytime you see something really amazing happen, really think, what scale is that thing happening? And it's almost the magic that you see around you, these airbags, these incredible materials, these velcro, the magic's in the microstructure. And you really want to think about what we can do with microstructure to make amazing stuff. If you could have anything made, any piece of magic made, right, what would you like? Being able to fly. Being able to fly, we can do that. Jet engines, anything else? Time travel. Time travel. You want invisibility? Okay, I think we can do invisibility. In fact, people have already made prototype invisibility shields. I'm going to show you one in a minute. But first of all, let's just work out, if you wanted an invisibility cloak, how would it have to work? How would it, what would it do? So let's say I got a cloak and I was going to be invisible, right? I put it on to me. All right, I'm standing here and I want to be invisible. So anyone in ahead of me has  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected light. It's actually, it's something that seems remarkable, but you're sort of used to it, I think. So here's a tank of water. So, you know, imagine that you're sort of having a drink, you've got a straw and, you know, some lemonade, and you put it in and you're used to this, right, aren't you? In it goes, right, and it seems to have bent. So how does light bend? Well, it turns out that light travels at different speeds in air and water. In fact, light travels at different speeds in all materials. And the measure of that is called the refractive index. And if two materials have different refractive indices, then when light goes from one to the other, it bends. Okay, so the key to bending light, to understanding how to bend light, is the refractive indices. And this is different for every material. So if we can manipulate refractive indices, we can start to bend light to our own will. Now, I want to show you something weird about bending light. But first, I need a volunteer. Fantastic. Now, I haven't chosen anyone in the middle over there. What about you, sir? Right, bang in the middle. Oh, yes. That's it. Hello, what's your name? Darius. Darius. Okay, fantastic. Now, Darius, before we do this demo, I want you just to look into this and put your hat. Are you happy putting your hand into a bowl of water? Are you happy with that? Yeah? I want you to just put it in here and just check there's nothing in there, okay? Oh, are you saying there's something in there? Well, if there is anything in there, take it out. Oh, who put those in there? That's incredible. That looks like there's nothing in there, doesn't it? Why don't you put those in there and we'll see if they disappear again? Oh. Okay, do it again. Oh, look at that. So this bowl is full of those. You just can't see them. Isn't that incredible? Just put them back in there. Yeah, go on and have a go. Well, thank you very much. Now, look, before you go, I just want to ask you, do you have any idea how that works? Have you got some ideas? No, really. It's a tough question. It's something to do with refractive index, isn't it? Yeah. Good answer. Brilliant. You are good. Okay, thanks very much for that. Okay, so how did that work? Well, if light bends when you have two materials with different refractive indices, if you can match the refractive index of the balls with the water, then light won't bend. And that's exactly what we've done there. Right, we've got some balls with exactly the same refractive index as water, so light just goes straight through it. And because they're transparent, you see nothing at all. I mean, it really is effective, isn't it? But that's not going to work for an invisibility cloak because we don't want the cloak to be transparent because then light would just go straight through it. So we want something that bends light but doesn't isn't transparent. And I've got an invisibility shield here. This is one of the first prototypes ever. Some material scientists have made this invisibility shield and it actually works. Let me show you how it works. So light comes in here, it gets bent round and it goes out there. Or light comes in here, it gets bent round and it goes out there. So whichever angle light comes in, it gets bent round and it goes out there on the other side. So anything in the middle is invisible. You will never see it. That's incredible, isn't it? Now, how does that work? Obviously, we're manipulating the refractive index. I want to show you a picture of it up close. So there are these tiny microscopic little interventions in the microstructure which allow, now we have to change the refractive index, manipulate it at will to allow light to bend. Now, for this shield, it only works at microwaves, which are longer light waves than visible light. So this won't work for visible light, but it will work for microwaves. So if you would put a cup of tea inside that little circle and put it in the microwave, it would never get hot because the microwaves would hit it, be bent round and never get to the tea. I know, why would you put tea in the microwave? It's much better to use a kettle. That's not the point. Okay. So if we could do it for visible light, how would we do it? Well, it turns out the visible light is much shorter than microwaves, so we need much shorter microstructural features, but the principle is exactly the same and people are working it all over the world. I can tell you, in fact, I think there might be, you sometimes I see things out of the corner of my eye and I sort of think someone's already done it, you know? No, anyway. But this is what it would look like, isn't it? If I got an invisible shield to work, you'd also have to solve the problem of having it flexible, but then once you've manipulated the microstructure and got the refractive index right, you put it round you like this and then you could just sort of say, well, imagine your teacher's coming and you haven't done the homework, you just go, unindisible. And you should... This is going to really change the game of hide and seek fundamentally, isn't it? Okay. So, yeah. So these things are going to happen, honestly, in the next five, ten years, you're going to see these things, which is incredible to think, isn't it? So far I've talked really in this lecture about us millitplating microstructures, to do weird things, magic things, which are great. But nature itself does a lot of strange stuff that is just magic. And to understand that, we really need to understand what happens when we go even smaller and see how individual atoms fit together. So I've got a liquid here and the molecules in this liquid are just milling about doing not very much, transparent liquid. But if I pour it, it does something a bit odd. It turns into a solid and it won't stop doing that. I mean, we're going to... And now it's just growing. Look at this. And can you see these crystals growing? Isn't that incredible? So this liquid is turning into a crystal as we speak, just like that. What are crystals? Because we hear a lot about them and it's good to think about them a bit. So this is what we think of, isn't it? When we think of a crystal, something with these faceted sides and it might not be as big as this, it might be a diamond ring, it might be a ruby necklace, these wonderful translucent, transparent crystals. And they do marvelous things with light, they do marvelous things with electric fields, all sorts of crazy stuff that they do. You can make lasers with them. So crystals clearly are special materials. And what is a crystal? Well, it's an arrangement of atoms. And we saw with that liquid, it's weird, because the liquid had no structure and I poured it in and then suddenly it got a structure. It remembered, oh, actually we all want to be regularly arranged in a crystal. You go there, you go there, you go there. And who was telling them? Well, no one was, but they just did it. And they arranged themselves in these regular arrays. And if I show you this, you can see that crystals are a lot of different crystal types and that's why there's such a wide range of them. And they have these remarkable, sometimes if you can line the atoms up and you get these yeah, these directions where all sorts of things happen. They're fantastic things, but the one thing they don't do very well, they don't really kind of cope with is you hitting them. It's sort of not so keen on that. Well, let's just confirm that, shall we? Crystal hammer. Hammer meet crystal. Couldn't we make a crystal that could withstand impact and that you could bend? Wouldn't that be great? Well, they exist and they're called metals. So look, this is what you normally think of as a metal. It's just a sort of rather gray, unremarkable, maybe brightly colored thing. But if you look inside it, that's what metals are like. So if I now go back to this, we know what's going to happen because we've all done this to metal, but let's just reiterate that. I put the metal in there. I whack it with a hammer and actually I'm making huge dents in it. It's not just blobs of matter moving around, right? It's that crystals are deforming, changing shape, but everything on that impact is still crystalline. They are one of the most special crystals around and this is how they bend. And what you're seeing here, this is a crystal, metal crystal, and these are dislocations. So they're defects in the crystal. I'll show you one in a minute and these things can move. In fact, they're always moving around and you'll see in a minute, there, do you see it go? And that was under a bit of stress. So the person under the microscope was stressing the crystal and this thing moved. And that moves one piece of the crystal from one side to the other. Here's what they look like, right? So you can see this is a crystal, it's a metal crystal structure, but you can see there's a defect there, right? If I line it up properly, there's a defect, right? Now, the stress, this whole top of this crystal can move and it only requires a small amount of energy to shift the whole crystal all the way along. And so that means that metal crystals can change shape in real time at the speed of sound. A crystal that you can hit, you can bend and it moves. It reorganizes itself. So metals are great because you can mold them at high temperatures and then you bring them to our temperature and they're really hard and tough and fantastic materials. You can make cars out of them, aeroplanes can. The only problem with this whole scenario is that there are times when you want the crystal, the metal crystals to survive at very high temperatures, right? Like in a jet engine. Now jet engines are not cool places at all. I'm going to show you how kind of powerful jet engines are with this clip. So this is a 747 with four jet engines. Now, you'll see in the car, the engines are on, the car moves across, the power out of the back of the engine, it pushes the car, okay? That's a lot of force that's coming out of that engine. They're amazing things. They're absolutely astounding things that we've invented. What's happening in the back here is a turbine spinning around and they look like this, these turbine blades, and they're spinning around at really high temperatures. And these metal crystals are called super alloys. And the reason they're called super alloys is because there's only one metal that can survive these conditions and we were so impressed with it, we called it super. I'm not joking you, that is really the one that, the why the name is called it. So these things are called super alloys and they're an incredible structure and they, they survive high temperatures but also high stresses because it's zooming around really fast. And I want to just remind you why zooming around, right, right, rotating is such a difficult thing to cope with. And I've got, I've got a guest to help me just, just show you that now. Okay, this is Sean, give him a big round of applause. Sean has agreed to help me with this demo, haven't you? Yes. Because we just want to talk about why rotating something, so a blade in the case of a turbine jet engine is so high stress. And first we're going to do it and then we'll, we'll talk to Sean afterwards about how high stress it was. Are you all right with this? Okay, you're ready? Okay. All right, ready? Okay, go. Run. How are your arms? Feel very stressed. They feel stressed, don't they? Yeah. I know. And imagine that was, you know, thousands of revolutions per second. How much more stress you are? How would that feel? They'd probably be feeling like they're full off. Yeah, exactly. No, it would be terrible, wouldn't it? Yeah. Anything else you want to say about this? I enjoyed it. Oh, fantastic. Well, that's just great. Thank you very much for coming on. Thank you so much. Okay, so we've got these turbine blades whizzing around at really high stresses, really high temperatures, and they've got to not break. And this super alloy is the alloy for the job. And I know that you're thinking, well, why don't we just use steel? Steel seems great for everything. But super alloy is so much better than steel. I want to show you how much better it is for this job. Please welcome another guest. Who are you, Ben? So my name's John. Yes. And I work at the University of Cambridge. And I'm a material scientist trying to make super alloys even more super. Great. Fantastic. You're the man to talk to. So what have we got here? So here we've got a piece of steel, just a normal piece of steel. And then here we've got a super alloy, which is the state of the art super alloy. And so what we're going to do is we're going to have a materials head to head. And we're going to hang some weights on the end of each of the materials, then heat them up with a blow torch, and we're going to see which is the better material at high temperatures. Okay, great. So yeah, goggles on. So the weights go on. And yes, you've got steel, haven't you? And I've got super alloy. I like it that way around. So they're the same thickness, they're the same volume. Exactly. And this is the blow torch. Blow torch is on. Okay, great. You ready? Let's challenge it again. I think we could just be here all day with the super alloy, couldn't we? Yeah, we could. So that, you know, in case you were thinking steel is the latest thing that you would want to put into a jet engine, super alloy is just so much better than this job, isn't it? It is indeed, Mark. Well, look, thank you very much for coming on to showing us that. So I mean, I said super alloy is so great, but I didn't tell you why it was so great. And of course, you know the answer, don't you? You know the answer, the magic's in the microstructure, of course. So let's have a look at the microstructure of the super alloy. And actually, this looks like a weird image, but I'll just talk you through it. So these little funny things, they're those dislocations. So they're the fault lines in the crystal. And they're the things that let the crystal move and change shape. And in the case of the super alloy, we don't want that to happen at high temperatures. So we want to stop them moving. And these things here are little crystals within a crystal. So you've got crystals growing within crystals. This is a bit like a sort of traffic system in a city. And the only letting the dislocations run down these little alleyways here, they can't get through here. And this means that they all get jumbled up and they find it very hard to move and it's gridlock. And as the temperature goes up, the gridlock doesn't get released. And that's the trick. And the higher you can get the temperature, the more efficient the engine, and the more efficient the engine, the less fuel it uses and the more power it has. So it really is absolutely vital, not just in terms of safety, but efficiency of engine and power to get this microstructure right. Okay, so that's how we design microstructures that won't melt at high temperatures. What if we want to design a crystal that will melt on demand? Well, we can do that too. In fact, you know all about it. You eat it every day if you're lucky. It's this crystal in chocolate. And the whole point of this crystal is to melt only when it gets in your mouth. And it's a billion dollar industry making crystals that only melt in your mouth. Let me just kind of skeer us up here now and say that we're going to do a mass taste testing of chocolate. Great. At home, I hope that you've got some chocolate ready for this taste test. And if you haven't, now's your chance to try and find some. And what we're going to do is Chris is going to taste chocolate at the same time that you're going to taste chocolate, but he's going to do it in a very special way. He's going to get into this dentist chair. I hope that's not going to alarm you too much. And we're going to put an endoscope into his mouth or a camera inside his mouth so you can see while you're eating the chocolate, you will see him what the chocolate's doing inside his mouth. You've never done this before, have you? Yes. This is a whole new chocolate experience. All right, everybody, we're about to do this. Get ready to put this in your mouth. Get ready not to chew it, but just to let it melt in your mouth. Are you ready, Chris? I'm going to give it to you. You can put it in your mouth. Okay, pop it in your mouth. Now, mass taste testing in the UK. Now, what's happening is you've got this kind of waxy solid in your mouth and it seems to be doing not very much. If you explore it with your tongue, you'll find that it's a bit cornering. It's a bit of a taste of corner, isn't it? But as it stays in there longer, it's starting to melt. Yes, you're getting a little bit of melting going on. And what that is, is a cocoa butter is melting. It's a crystal and it's melting on your tongue. When crystals melt, they're taking energy from your tongue because they need it in order to melt. And that's called the latent heat. And that will cool your tongue because you're taking heat away from it. I know you feel it, but don't say, but you should be feeling a cooling of your tongue now. Oh. And now, after that, once it's liquid, it's going to start to release the flavor molecules. And there are about 600 different flavor molecules in chocolate. And actually, they're going to go up the back of your mouth into your nose. And that's where you're going to start tasting the chocolate because that's the real richness in your nose is where the taste is coming from. And in a minute, I'll tell you what they are, those molecules. But also, what's now happening in your mouth is the liquid is releasing the sugar crystals that have been embedded into the cocoa. And that should be making its way onto your tongue and making it feel sweet now. You should have a sweet sensation. And now, there will be other things like a sort of slightly milky dairy sensation because of the milk protein and powder in your milk chocolate. And at this point, there's chemicals like fear bromine going into your blood from the chocolate and caffeine. And they're starting to make their way around your body. And they're going to go into your brain and give your brain a bit of a buzz, a nice, pleasant buzz. All the while, the mass of chocolate on your tongue is getting more and more molten, more and more delicious. It's smelling more and more lovely. And you should start, if you can really look out for the really fruity flavors, because these come from the fermentation of the beans. The beans are left in the tropics on the floor to ferment. And then also, you should feel this kind of, there'll be a lot of caramel-y nutty roasted flavors coming from the roasting process of the chocolate. And this is such a rich, wonderful flavor. It's just the most glorious thing. Now you've got this mass of hot, hot chocolate in your mouth, haven't you? And what you want more than anything else is to glug it down, don't you? And put it down the back of your throat. Are you ready to go? Okay, so now just let that mass of chocolate... Yes! It's a really physical experience, isn't it? This one. Okay. Let's have a big round of applause. Here we go. This is a little model of the microstructure of chocolate, which you just ate. And I'm just going to talk you through it. So a lot of what chocolate is is fat, a really delicious fat called cocoa butter, which you can also use as a cream. That's what creams are. And here it is, we've got it here. And it exists in six different crystal types. And each one of those crystal types has a different melting point. And of course, if you have the type that's too lower melting point, it will melt in your hand or it'll melt in the shop or it'll melt on a very, not a very hot day. And if you get the type that's wrong, it will never melt at all. So you need to get type five crystals. Also, we've got the cocoa solids from the beans. This is where all that kind of wonderful flavor comes from and all the roasting and all the caramel and all the nuttiness. And we've got some milk protein solids and we've got some sugar. Okay. So those are the main ingredients in chocolate. And of course, when you put it on your tongue, oh, no, it's very strange. It's a very strange object. Anyway, I can't explain it. It's very odd. But anyway, there we go right now. So you put the chocolate on your tongue. And you can see immediately that what the fat is doing is not only is it controlling the melting point, it's also controlling when these other ingredients are released. So you want that fat only A to encapsulate and to protect them, but B to kind of also then release them at the right moment and not just when it gets into your mouth. And then of course, it becomes sort of very creamy and all of that rest of the stuff that you experience happens. Now, that's what that's kind of this is a mock up of it and we'll see in a minute what happens to this. But I want to show you the micro real microstructure under the microscope. We've got a microscope outside. So let's go and have a look at it because it's not often you get to see much chocolate under the microscope. So I'm just going to nip outside and have a look. Hi, John. Hi, Kelly again. Okay, we're using a detector now that is a response to the density of the material. So the dense of the material, the brighter the image. So you can see here, we've got some very bright crystals. Those are sugar. And with the fat globules here, we can even see that there is a difference in brightness or darkness, which is the way you like to look at it. Yeah, between them, which shows that they are different materials. Yeah, some is cocoa butter and some is other. So we thought some sort of other fat in there, these globules, haven't we? Yeah, it's not all pure cocoa butter. And it's very, it's very kind of heterogeneous. It's sort of all mixed up. Very lumpy. Yeah, lumpy lumpy. Okay, so yeah, so that's what chocolate looks like under the microscope. You saw it there. And this is what it these are those same ingredients that we kind of we we've kind of made into this model. And you can see now what's happened that the fat has melted just like we we we all just experienced. It's an incredibly sophisticated material this as sophisticated as steel. And yet, tastes a bit better than steel, in my opinion. So that's the amazing science of chocolate and how it works at the micro level. But there's one last thing I want to explore. So I want to play a game with you about microstructures. And I want to sort of see if you can tell the difference between living and dead microstructures. So microstructures in living things versus microstructures in non living things. And I've got a few examples to you. So you just, I'm going to put them up on the screen and you shout out whether you think they're living or dead. Okay. All right, you ready for this. So is this from a living or a dead thing? Well, quite mixed, aren't we? You're quite mixed. This is actually living. This is this is from a plant. All right, this one. Dad, you think this is something like, it's just like an electronic machine, do you think? It's a fly's eye. Fly's eye. I've also, I've got, I've got this other microscope here, which I want to show you because I want to show you that it, you know, it's still even at other scales. It's hard to tell the difference. So what do you think this is here? Is this a living or dead? You fell into my trap. No, because it's artificial skin. It turns out that once you go to this inner space of materials and you start looking around as we've done, it is actually quite difficult to work out what the difference between living stuff and non-living is. And essentially, I mean, there isn't not that easy. The physics is the same for both the living and the non-living, right? So, but living things can do some things that are just miraculous that we would like to be able to do. And one of them is it can make self-healing materials. So we, we all got skin that if you get, if you cut it, it will heal itself. And I'll show you, I'll show you of course what this, you remember. So you get a gash and then it looks horrible, but a few days later, it's healed itself. Now that's brilliant. Wouldn't we all love that? Because you're all used to, you know, maybe accidentally breaking your mobile phone one day and you think, well, that's, A, it's expensive and B, you think you've had, you've got a relationship with this machine and you kind of, it knows all your secrets, right? Or you, you, you, you bump your car, it's a small crack. The insurance company doesn't agree, but anyway. And wouldn't it be great if your car could just heal itself? This is, this is the thing. Wouldn't it be great if we could make self-healing materials for mobile phones, for cars? Well, you, it doesn't seem so impossible, does it? Because you, you sort of know that living materials do it and the re, the way they do it must be to control the microstructure and they must be regenerating the right microstructures. So if we can find a way of controlling and regenerating microstructures, we could do it, right? So here's some samples of a self-healing plastic. And these, these early samples are rudimentary, but let me show you how they work. So this is inside the microstructure of that plastic. A crack come down here so it's, it's, it's getting injured and it hits these little capsules here. Now, inside there are little capsules of resin, which is a liquid and it flows out into the crack and it heals the crack. And it does that because it reacts with a catalyst which makes the, makes this liquid resin become a solid. So it's a bit like blood clotting. It sort of stops the problem. And it, of course, it doesn't go, in this case, it doesn't go back to being as good as it was before, like, like our skin does, but it's progress. It doesn't seem too much of a stretch to think that we could also, if we could get materials to self-heal, that we could also crack this idea of what life is. Because living organisms, they don't seem, when you look at them and you look at them under the microscope, they don't seem like they're doing anything magic. They're just manipulating the microstructure really cleverly and they're regenerating microstructure really cleverly. So we could do that. We could make artificial living organisms if we could just understand these processes better. And I, I, I'm absolutely sure in this century that's going to happen. That we'll make artificial life and instead of having buildings that are static or mobile phones that are static or bridges or, or roads that are static, they will be living. They will heal themselves. They'll reorganize themselves. And it could be one of you who does this. It could be one of you here who develops that technology. And I really hope it is in 20 years time that one of you is standing here telling us about that. I just want to sort of say one more thing which is to remind you that the magic, whenever you see the magic, all these new gadgets are going to come out. When the invisibility shields come out in 10 years time and you buy one, I want you to go, I know what this, how this works. The magic is in the microstructure. So thank you very much for listening and thank you.

=== FILE: Why mountains are so small - Mark Miodownik 2010 Christmas Lectures 3⧸3 [mm1GsUK-x64].txt ===

 subjected to subjected to Thank you very much. Thank you very much. My name is Mark Miodovnik. I'm a material scientist from King's College London and today we're going to talk about big stuff. I mean look at this stuff, look at this bolt. I mean who could need a bolt that big? And this stuff here, we're going to talk about skyscrapers, mountains and planets, huge things. And we're going to see that matter behaves on the big scale every bit as strangely as it does on the micro tiny scales. And in the previous lectures we talked really about how different forces dominate at different scales and at the big scale the force that we're going to need to worry about, the one that's going to dominate everything is gravity. It's our invisible enemy. So how do we beat it? How do we make big things? Well this is a big thing, this is a mountain and it's huge. Look at it, absolutely huge. Or is it? I mean it all depends on the size and scale in which you look at it. If I zoom out now, now I'm the size of a planet and I look down, well mountains are not so big anymore. And when things are big, it changes everything. You suddenly realize that all the rules are off and matter behaves in a totally different way. And I want to just get you used to that idea because I'm going to need you to turn off your common sense in order to understand that kind of thing. And your common sense is really going to interfere. So first of all let's just get a feel for how gravity can affect big things. So I've got a material here and it's a liquid. So who believes me that this is a liquid? Okay, so you've still got your common sense turned on. Alright, I'll try and turn it off for you. Okay, so obviously liquids don't do this. Usually do they? So this feels very much like a solid liquid. I hope to prove to you as the lecture goes on that this is a liquid. I'm just going to leave it there for the moment. You keep an eye on this stuff as the lecture goes on. We'll come back to that. Here's another bonkers mad liquid and this is one of my favorite liquids of all time, mercury. Gosh, who loves mercury? It's just the strangest stuff, isn't it? Now this, what's so strange about mercury is it's a metal but it's also a liquid at room temperature. Mercury's a heavy liquid. What does that mean heavy? Well, I'll illustrate what I mean by heavy. This is a cannonball and that is definitely heavy. And gravity, this invisible force pulled it down. Do you see that? We're pretty used to that, aren't you? Okay, let's see. Heavy cannonball meets heavy liquid. Okay, we'll take that off. And what's going to happen here, eh? Is it just going to go right to the bottom? Wow. That's incredible, isn't it? A floating cannonball. Let's hear it for the cannonball. Okay. All right, so that's heavy things, things where gravity is really playing a massive force. Now I'm going to show you a material that goes completely opposite direction. I have here the lightest solid in the world. It's so light, you can't hardly see it. Can you see that? Now this stuff is called aerogel and it's 99.8% air. So it's only 0.2% solid. In fact, you can hardly see where it ends and the air begins because there's only 0.2 percent of the air that's in the sky. And it's not this blue tinge, you'll notice that. Now that's because it's a foam, it's a glass foam and the holes in that glass foam are so small that they scatter light in the same way that light is scattered in the sky. So while you're seeing it, you'll see it's blue for the same reason the sky is blue. There's no pigment in there. So this is as close as you're ever going to get to holding a piece of sky in your hand, right? It's almost completely sky. And you think, well, God, that's incredible. Nice and upset air. What could anyone possibly want with a material like that? Well, it turns out that NASA used this to collect space dust. It's absolutely amazing, isn't it? So, yeah, I think you have to give a big round of applause for aerogel, the lightest solid in the world. How are we doing with our common sense? It's looking less like a solid now, isn't it? So let's see how big we can build. This is the Burj Khalifa and it's the tallest building in the world. It's 0.8 of a kilometer high. So that's half a mile high. Of course, I look quite big next to it, don't I? Looks like a giant. But actually, if you shrunk me down, this is what I would look like. It's really high. It's absolutely a magnificent building. But, well, what happens if I'm the size of Everest? Now, here I am. I'm a giant. And here I, if I was to look at the Burj Khalifa now, that's how high it would be. It's down here, tiny. So why can't we build anything bigger? That seems pathetic. We've gone to the moon and yet that's all we're building. Well, we've got a model here of the Earth. Here's England. Here's where we are. And if we were to put on a scale the Burj Khalifa, you wouldn't be able to see it. We'd have to have a microscope to see it. So it's down there somewhere, but we haven't seen it. And if you put the mountains on here, again, as you saw with the pictures of the Earth, they're tiny. So this Earth, you can see, has this incredible round of sphericals. It's all very, very, very smooth. And that's because the Earth exerts an enormous gravitational field. It's huge. This enormous mass is exerting a force on you, me, that cannonball. How far do we have to go to get out of its hole? Well, I'll show you. I'm going to just, I'm just going to say if we were to build a building this high, not quite this actually, a bit higher, and a bit higher, and a bit higher, and a bit higher, and a bit higher, and a bit higher, and a bit higher. If we were to build a building, and this is the scale, we built a building 36,000 kilometers high. We'd be what's called a geostationary orbit. So satellites, the sort of communication satellites up there, they stay in a fixed position with regard to the Earth as they satellite around, and they're not sucked back into Earth. So if we can get up there 36,000 kilometers away from the Earth, then we can escape the Earth's gravitational field, this tyranny of gravity. So why haven't we done that? Why haven't we managed to do anything close to that yet? So I'm going to need a few volunteers from the audience to help me. Okay. So we've got, yeah, we've got one there, a lady there, and let's get a guy. Yeah, yeah, go on. And one more. Yes. Why don't you come down? Yes. All right. We're going to have a competition now, and there will be prizes. And the competition is to escape the Earth's gravity. Okay. So and what I'm going to try and do is obviously you're going to have to find, Jetsons is not into space now. And if you make it as far as the roof, we will open it for you. So don't worry about that. Don't limit your ambitions. Are you ready? Okay, we'll do a count on everybody. Three, two, one, go. Whoa, the old, oh, we did it twice. Whoa, and then we'll have to consult the referee and then letting that go. All right. But let's have a look at the action replay. Okay, and up they go. Oh, the old back lips and that, I think that got it for you. Well done. Take knee. Okay. Now, that was really sporting of them, but it wasn't very impressive. Was it really? Because I mean, half a second is all we can, and basically that, you know, they're no better or worse than most of us, aren't they? So gravity is this incredible tyranny on our lives. It's constantly gluing us to the floor, and that seems really annoying to me. So we'll start thinking, well, let's try and work out how to levitate. So here we go. Thought, should be able to make a levitation machine. Go on touch with some material scientists who had some ideas about this, and they gave us some of this material, which is called a superconductor. And when you cool superconductors down with liquid nitrogen, so we're going to get down to a minus 193 degrees centigrade, then these superconductors, they repel magnetic fields. So the idea is this, gravity pulls magnet down and we repel the magnetic field with the superconductor, and they're equal each other, and we get the magnet to levitate. All right, let's see if it works though. Is it working? Oh, ho, ho, ho. Okay. Yes. And then we're going to get down to the minus 193 degrees centigrade. Now, I know what you're all thinking. You're thinking it's a tiny little thread, aren't you? I know. So look, just to prove to you that there isn't anything underneath or over the top, nothing over the top, and... Oh, yes. The thing about that was you had a magnetic field opposing the gravitational field exactly. Turns out that it's, as the magnetic gets bigger and bigger and bigger, that gets harder and harder to do. So I thought, well, I'll invent a levitation device that can levitate me. So off I went to my garden shed and I came up with a levitation device, which, and this is the world premiere of this device, and I think you're all going to be very impressed because this really could be the future of us getting off this planet. Do you want to see it? You don't sound that interested. Come on, do you want to see it? Okay. Oh. Well, you're clapping, but I know you're not that impressed. But just bear with me on this one. This is a levitation device. Look, I'm on the floor, I'm stuck to the floor, now I'm not. Right? I mean, before we had a magnetic field repelling my gravitational force, but now, inside this piece of wood, as we call it in the technical, there is an elastic force field, which is exactly matching my gravitational field. So I've got, there's an elastic force in there, the atomic scale, the atoms are being pulled apart exactly to match my gravitational force. So this is fantastic. Here I am, and it's not just happening to me, it's happening to all you now, right? Because all of you are sitting down and your gravity is still acting on you. Gravity is not this force that just acts, just switches on when you're falling, it's acting on you now, and it's pushing you down to the ground. And if there wasn't an elastic force field underneath your bum now, let's all just think about our bums. No, not too much, that's enough. So it's that elastic force field underneath your bum, so it's the cushion and then it's the floor, isn't it? So if you think about it, the floor in here, in this whole of this one, is having to put up with quite a lot. Because before U-lock came in here, there wasn't an elastic force field, and now there is a massive elastic force field in here holding you all up. So that's great, isn't it? I mean, buildings just do that for free. Or do they? Let's get a feeling for how much elastic force field they're having to put up with now in this room. Okay, so how do I do that? Anyone got any ideas how to calculate the total gravitational force acting down now? Anyone? You've got an idea? A force meter, yes. And what do we call force meters in the parlance, in the bathroom perhaps? Anyone? Yes? A scale. A scale! You're good. Okay. So it's a scale, doesn't it? If we're going to measure this audience, we need a scale that will weigh you all, don't we? So let's get in a big scale. What we thought we could do is kind of get you all to sit on this sale. We borrowed these from Shrek. He has them in his bathroom and he let us lend them for him. He's on a diet at the moment. He's obsessed with his weight. What we want to do is try and measure the audience, how much, you know, gravitational force from the audience. So I need some help up with this. What I'm going to try and do is I'm trying to weigh as many of you as I can. But first I'm going to start with one. Now, can I get someone in the front row who's brave enough, are you brave enough to come and... How do you feel about your weight? Are you sensitive about it? No, you're not. Okay, brilliant. Okay. Sorry, what's your name? Tomash. Yes. Okay, brilliant. Okay. So Tomash, I'm just going to zero the scales. All right, off you get, Tomash. So let's see how much you weigh. 41 kilos. Is that all right? Good. All right, now, let's see if we can get some more on. Can we get two more of you on there? Is that possible? You two up for that. All right. Come on then. So you two get on there and spudge up a bit if you don't mind. All right. Now, how are we doing? 128 kilos. All right. Do you think we can get some more? Do you think you three will be able to get on there? All right. How are we doing? 309 kilos. What about you two? You're going to make it on there. You can get on the sort of edge bits as well. What about you guys? Yes? You are for it. All right. So you four. Let's see if we can get four more of you on. Now, there is a game called Sardines that's very similar to this. Well, this is good. This is good. We're up to 600 kilos. Can we get any more? Come on. Let's get the whole of this row on if we can. Is that possible? How are you guys feeling? Are you all right? Is there room? No. Come on. All right. Now, there's a bit of space over here. You came up with this idea. So you should be at the front. Okay. Brilliant. Can you get into that little corner there? Is that possible? You all get to know each other. This is all very friendly. Oh, no. Is that not enough room for you guys in the back? Is there a little room there? Okay. Hold on, guys. Just two seconds. So we've got 700. Are we on? 771. No, 80. Let's say 775 kilos. But how many kids? Oh, I didn't count. Did anyone count? All right. Let's get off, guys. Brilliant. Thank you. Big hand round of applause. So, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, seven, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen. Sixteen kids, I think. So that turns out to be, has anyone done that calculation in their head? Average weight of kids. Forty-eight kilos per kid. So that's, let's say, fifty. And there are about four hundred of you here. So that means, bit of mental calculation going on in my head now, twenty tons. So you weigh twenty tons. That's pretty amazing, isn't it? So before you came in here, this poor building was mining its own business, right? Just having a lovely Saturday afternoon, having a bit of a rest. Then it had to put up with twenty tons of you, and it's holding you up like this, and we never really asked it. So it's produced an elastic force field of twenty tons, just like that. And next time you go out and buy a really heavy, big, new flat-screen TV, think about the building, right? Because the poor old building never got asked if they wanted a big flat-screen TV that weighs a half a ton. And it has to put up with holding it even when you're asleep. And those of us in the Society for Protection to Cruelty to Buildings are quite concerned about this accruement of very heavy technology in the home. Okay, so it turns out the buildings are quite good at coping with this, so why can't we just build ourselves off the planet? I'm going to need a couple of volunteers who kind of, who have ambitions to work in engineering. And the hand is still up, fantastic, I love that. Okay, okay. Let's have you sir there. Yes, brilliant, and madam there, yeah, brilliant. Okay. All right, what's your name? Charlotte. Charlotte. And your name? Dennis. Innis. Innis, Innis and Charlotte, fantastic. Okay, now in this game, you do all the work, and I get to talk. Is that all right? Anyway, so what I want to do, we're going to try and build ourselves off the planet with at least the first few steps. And here they are, so we've got the first step, this is my anti-gravity machine, which we now agree is genius. And if you could just add, can you grab some of those and add the next step? That's what we want to do, I basically want to get the idea of building us off the planet. So you put two on there, fantastic. Okay, and then I think if we can get a slap across, yes, that'd be brilliant. I'll put that on. Yes, I see you. I do the easy bit. Hooray! I'm up one further bit away from the planet. It's like an enormous game of Jenga, although I hope it won't end the same way. Look, guys, you've done a fantastic job. Here we go, up I go, and we could just keep going, couldn't we? If you were not getting tired and had infinite energy and we had infinite materials, that seems reasonable. Well, thanks very much for helping with that, guys. Really quickly say that. What is stopping us just keeping on going? Hmm, well, there is a problem. There is a problem. And in order to tell you about that problem, I'm going to invite some friends to help me work it out. F-O-R-C-E, let's learn about gravity. F-O-R-C-E, let's learn about gravity. F-O-R-C-E, let's learn about gravity. 5, 6, 7, 8. Well done, guys. OK, well done, fantastic, guys. Now, who was at the top? Who was at the top? What's your name? Kira. Kira, you were at the top. Now, how was it at the top? Did you feel an enormous force on your shoulders? No. Did you feel yourself pressing down on other people? Yes, you did. And how was it at the bottom? You guys were all at the bottom. I was at the bottom. Do you guys take it in turns? What goes on? We've got all the way. Basically, this is the problem, isn't it? As you build things higher and higher and higher, you guys are always going to have to take all the weight that goes above you. And that just gets worse and worse and worse. So we put another tier on top, which we're about to do, aren't we? Oh, no, I just don't get it. Yeah, I'm just joking you. OK. Actually, we'll just run that through again because I just want to get the hang of it. And everyone to look at these guys' faces on the bottom, not the top. She gets all the glory all the time. Look at the people doing the work at the bottom. OK, let's go for it again, guys. Five, six, seven, eight. Let's hear it for these guys. OK, so what we saw there really is if buildings had emotions, right, all the bricks and stones at the bottom would be going, oh, for all the time, wouldn't they? Because they've got to hold the whole building up. And as the building gets higher and higher and higher, their load doesn't get any better. They have to take more and more and more weight. So gravity is constantly working, even in static structures like this. And what we have to do is find the materials that can cope with that kind of pressure. OK. So remember, we're trying to work out what makes materials strong. So we're going to try and do a test now. And I need a volunteer to help me work out what are strong materials. OK, brilliant. Let's take you over there. Fantastic. Yes. So what is your name? Natasha. OK, Natasha. Now, are you up to help me work out which are strong materials that we need for buildings? OK, fantastic. If you go around that corner there, I'll come around here, I'll join you. OK. Now, what we're going to do is we've got here a dresser like you might sort of have at home with some objects on it. And we're going to try and test them to destruction. OK. And to get you in the right mood for this, I want you to think about the most furious moment in your life and how you felt. And in that moment, you thought, gosh, I really want to throw this ball at that. OK. Didn't you? And I'm also going to get you to put some safety goggles on. Is that all right? And so you're holding that thought, furious. And of course, you could never do this at home. You would never do this at home. But here you can do it. Is this going to be the happiest moment of your life? Yes. OK. Now, it's going to be a competition, which is always the way with me. So you're going to get three balls, I'm going to hand to you, and I'm going to get three balls. And we're going to see who can smash the most. OK. Does that sound fair? I'm thinking furious thoughts. You're thinking furious thoughts. And let's see which materials can survive. OK. Off you go. You go first. Oh! OK. Wow. All right. Now, I'm going to do the same. Oh, not too fast. One each. Off you go. Oh, sorry. Now, you are quite angry inside. OK. All right. Laugh go. Fantastic. OK. I'm actually quite nervous now. Now, what's the score, everybody? Did you get this? It's one each. So I think there's a fair fury divide between us. Thank you very much. OK. OK. So look. Let's just look at the wreckage in here. So this got hit, but actually this is paper and survived. That's all right, isn't it? And this metal plate got a bit dented but survived, so they seem good candidates for strong materials. This cup bit the dust big time. Porcelain cup, clearly a weak material. Wouldn't you agree? Yes. Or you would, would you? You've fallen into my trap. All right. Is it weak? Let's see. We've got a replica cup here. Now, I want to show you how thin this is because you know how thin they are, but I'm just going to show you. Actually, porcelain cup is a fine bone channel. You can actually shine lights through. Look at that. That thin. We're saying this is weak, but is it? I'm going to now do something which you shouldn't do at home. In fact, you shouldn't do any of this at home. Will you promise? OK. But I'm going to stand on this cup and see if it really is so weak. I'm pretty hefty. I didn't get on those scales earlier because I was a bit embarrassed. But you see, I've got a lot of weight. Gravity is pulling me down. All of my weight is going on the cup. No, Prometall. So, it seemed quite strong there, didn't it? Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, they've got a dummy cup. This is a super strong cup and that was a weak cup. So just to prove to you that's not the case and because I can. So, the cup was pretty strong when I stood on it, but is it going to be able to survive this? No. So, what's clear from any tantrum you've ever had and this test here is that there are different kinds of strengths of the materials. And that we had, you've got a strength here which is about impact strength. And some things are great under impact and they're terrible under other things. So paper was good under impact, but if I put a paper cup down here, it would crush. On the other hand, the ceramic cup was terrible under impact and is fantastic under these compressive forces of me. So, when we think about building a building out of materials, what we really need to think about is which type of strength we want. In the case of a building, we want more like the compressive strength. And so we have to make sure that we're picking materials with high compressive strengths. What do I mean by ceramics and that kind of thing? Well, a ceramic is a tiny, I mean, we saw it at the porcelain cup and it's a tiny little crystals inside there. They're the same sort of crystals in jewelry. They're like rubies and sapphires and all these kind of aluminum oxides, silicon oxides. And they're tiny little crystals all munch together. And that cup seemed like a really good material to build a building out of. So you're thinking, why don't we have enormous buildings made out of cups? Well, we do because ceramics, that material, that class of material is the same material as bricks and it's the same material as stones and rocks and all these kind of materials. But I want to show you an even better material. And this is it! Concrete, absolutely fantastic material. This is such an amazing material and we all just take it for granted. I think because it looks so sort of grey and dull. And so we think it must be grey and dull if it looks grey and dull, but it isn't. It's stuff of absolute fantasma. Is that a word? Anyway, I've said it. Look, inside here is cement and gravel and we're going to, if you set this, you can pour it, you can shift it up 200 meters in the air, pump it up through huge pumps. That's how they make really tall buildings. They pump it up so it behaves like a liquid even though it's sort of a gravel aggregate. And then when it gets there, it'll set. So it's not, as you might think, drying out. It's actually a chemical reaction that's happening inside. Let me show you. This is what's happening. Little crystals are growing inside the concrete. So this is a ceramic and it's incredibly good compressive strength. And what happens is, is that you've got this basically a liquid rock which you can pump anywhere, you can pour anywhere, you can bring on. And then you can make these enormous buildings. And then when they set, they have huge compressive strength. So this is a fantastic material. In fact, it seems that we've kind of come to the material we need to make big buildings to build us off the planet. We need rock basically, ceramic. It could be concrete or it can be stone. But this is the way, surely, this is the way to build huge buildings. Well, it's no news. You know it. We've been doing it for 5,000 years. Let me show you. It's getting a bit hot here. Okay. Yes. Ah, it's good to get some winter sun, don't you think? Look, I'm by the pier...  in Egypt. And these buildings being built out of stone, and they really show exactly what I'm talking about. They've lasted for 5,000 years. There's enormous compressive stresses at the bottom, and they've been there for 5,000 years, and this rock has not given up. Incredible down here. And so, surely, this is the right both material and structure to start building ourselves off the planet. So, let's think about this. If I get a map out of central London here, and this is to scale, then we are, we are, that's a very strange material. Anyway, sorry, we are here, up on Miles Street, this is the RI, to scale. It's got a little hole in the roof, just like this one's got a little hole in the roof. Okay, so, let's try and build the tallest building in the world, but out of concrete, and let's do it in a pyramid structure. Because, but where are we going to put it? I mean, there seems to be a lot of space here. There's Green Park, there's St. James Park, and there's this thing called Buckingham Palace Gardens. That seems to be unoccupied. That's amazing, isn't it? So, that seems like a very likely spot. Yeah, let's do it. Let's have a go at this. So, we have to sort of, yes, we have to ask the Queen. That's the first thing we have to do. I think she might be upset at losing her palace. She's got a few palaces, but she's pretty much attached to this one, I'm pretty sure. So, we have to offer her space in this new building. That's what I'm thinking. And of course, we've, it seems to have wiped out half of Mayfair here, and Belgravia and that kind of thing. So, there is, there's, yeah, I guess that is the problem, isn't it? Is that pyramids are great, they last for a long time, they can cope with the stress. So, that's all fantastic. We've got our structural head right on. Basically, this is the scale now. So, if this was, this would now be the tallest building in the world in a pyramid in the middle of London, which would be fantastic. It would be very impressive. But now, if you think about it, now if you try to build it even higher, let's say twice as high, so we're up there now, think how big the footprint would have to be. It would actually have to take over the whole of central London. And at today's house prices, that would just be a mammoth planning task, wouldn't it? And then that would only get you so far, and even then, how high would we really get? So, that's a real problem with pyramids, is the kind of the plant area at the bottom that it takes up. But there's another problem with pyramids. If you think about it, mountains, like this is a picture of Mount Everest up here, mountains are essentially pyramids, aren't they? They're peaked at the top and have a wide base. And turns out, so we can study them, and that actually Mount Everest is at 10 times bigger than this pyramid here, if this was the highest building in the world, 0.8 kilometers. That's about eight kilometers high. Basically nature builds mountains itself, so builds pyramids, and they don't get bigger and bigger and bigger. Actually they sort of stay rather small. Now why is that? Let's have a look at that, because that's odd. You would have thought the geological processes in the earth would allow us to get much bigger mountains than that. But here's the problem. This pyramid and that mountain are heavy, they're big objects. That mountain is two or three trillion tons. So, when it sits on the earth crust, and this, in case you were about to ask, and I'm sure you were, is a model of the earth crust, and then underneath the mantle, right, it's hot. So we've got the crust and the mantle here, and it's hot rock. It's solid rock, but it's hot. Now over millions of years, a trillion tons of mountain sits on that hot rock, and this is what happens. It starts to sink. Why? Why does solid rock behave like a liquid and let things sink in it? That doesn't seem right. But it turns out that over millions of years, if it's hot enough, and it is hot enough, it flows like a liquid. And so the process of mountain building on this planet is things pushing stuff up, geological problems making mountains, and them sinking back in. And the balance of those two forces determines the height of the mountains on this planet. Now you think, well, hold on a minute, surely you could just get some enormous eruptions and get much bigger mountains like this one, which is three times the size of Everest. I mean, not really three times, but three times the size of my model of Everest. And so let's see what would happen then is that, well, it's much more than three times the weight, as you'll know if you listen to lecture one. And look at that. It's sinking down and down. So you've got much more mass being pulled down by gravity. And it keeps going down and it keeps going down because actually the buoyancy forces, which are opposing these gravitational forces, mean that this has to sit much further down than you expect. And this will keep going down. So you can't just keep building bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger mountains and hope to have a, and hope for them to stay around because the rock just behaves like a liquid and they sink. Now you think, well, okay, why can't we do it on another planet which has a lower gravitational field, right, strength? So like Mars, good question. And there it is. Olympus, Olympus Mons on Mars is three times taller than Everest. So it is bigger on Mars, but it does have a lower gravitational field. So clearly, clearly that this balance of forces is correct, but it's still just a pimple on the surface of Mars. So we can't build our way off the planet by building with big, heavy stuff. We need a material that's strong and light. So we need something that has a high strength to weight ratio. So let's think this through. I'm going to need a volunteer to help me on this one. Yes, who have I, yes, you sir, on the end. Yes. Okay. Hello. William. Okay, William. All right. Now I've got something to show you here. So we're talking about we want something strong and light. Okay. I've got two materials here and they're both strong, but we want to kind of work out which one's stronger and lighter. So it's a bit of a calculation. Steel bar. There we go. Now I want you to try and break it. Just bend it until it can't bend anymore. Oh, that's cheating, but fair enough. Okay. But it's pretty strong, isn't it? No chance, right? Now what about this? This is another material that's very strong. It's called a carbon fiber composite. Try and bend that. What, you, yeah, it's different, isn't it? Yeah. Now which one of them is, has the best strength to weight ratio? I'll assume it would be this one. Oh, you're not, oh, I like, but how could you tell because it actually doesn't seem like a fair test because did they weigh the same? No, and in order to work that out, it has to work out how much you're tensing it. So what you'd like to see, wouldn't you, is the same weight objects. So a piece of steel the same weight as that. That would be much easier. Good thinking. All right. So let's get something the same weight and let's weigh it just in case people think it's not the same weight. So here's the steel. So that's 145 grams. All right. Now try and bend that. Yeah, go, go. You could just, you can make noises as well if you want. I do. All right. Now, if this one's worth 145 grams or thereabouts, we'll then try and test that one again, shall we? So this one is 145 grams. Same weight. Now bend this one. No chance. So suddenly, your original assumption about this one being the best for strength per weight is absolutely correct. Genius. Thank you very much. Fantastic. So composite materials, these carbon composites are really amazing. They're strong but light. And these are revolutionising people's lives. Have a look at this. And it's another golden route to the line for British cycling. The latest star is Joe E. Cundy. Joe E. Cundy. Come on. Here he comes. Joe, tell us about your credentials. Well, I'm a double world champion, multiple world record holder and double Paralympic champion in track cycling. That was me winning in the Kilo in Beijing. Oh, thank you. And how much of it is you and how much of is this marvellous material that your bike is made out of? Well, I like to think a lot of it is me making the bike go fast. But the carbon fiber we have in the bikes really helps us go fast. I mean, they're shaped aerodynamically, so we cut through the air. I mean, even my leg is made of carbon fiber to cut through the air. The frames made of carbon, wheels made of carbon, handlers made of carbon and the seat post. So pretty much everything on this bike is carbon. It's basically there. So we transfer all the power that we've got in our legs and make this back wheel go so we go forward. That's incredible, isn't it? So your leg is actually the cycling legs. That's right. Yeah, it's completely useless for walking in, but it's got a cycling cleat on the bottom just like any other shoe and it clips into my pedals. That's amazing, isn't it? Can I just see how much it is? Do you want to see if I can lift it out with one finger? Oh, yeah. This is a thing of beauty, isn't it? An absolute thing of beauty. Well, thank you so much for coming in. Not a real privilege to meet you. Thank you. Thank you. So it's not just in Olympic sports and incredible extreme sports, but it's also in your everyday life. This is a material that's really coming, going to be affecting every one of you. I want to show you the latest aircraft from Airbus. This is the A380. This is a double decker plane. 20% of this is carbon fiber composite. And this is only going to get increased. As the years go on, I'm pretty much confident that in 10 years time, 70 or 80% of aircraft will be carbon fiber composite or other composites. And in fact, we brought some in from an actual A380 here. So this is part of the underwing component. It's got two bits of it here. It's carbon fibers, so a bit like the graphite in pencils, but made into a fiber. And then it's interwoven. You see it here, actually. It's interwoven with a resin, so a plastic. So that's why it's called a composite. It's part fiber, carbon fiber, and part resin. And this resin, this plastic is also sort of the thing you get with Araldi. Almost like a glue. But either of them on the ground is not so useful. You put them together and you get this marvelously, marvelously strong material. I want to just sort of give you an experience of how strong these materials are. And I need a volunteer. Yes, what about you on the end with the Christmas hat? What's your name? Katie. Katie, are you strong, Katie? Okay. Have you got a bad back? No. Good. Okay. I just want you to just lift this up and then I'll tell you what to do later. Okay. Do you think you'll be able to lift that up? Yeah. Oh, it's actually quite light, isn't it? Yeah. Okay. Well, you could look a little bit more surprised if you like. No, don't worry. Isn't that amazing how light that is? Are you surprised? Yeah, yeah. It's incredible, isn't it? I mean, that's, you know, just an enormous piece of stuff, isn't it? And it's, yeah, it's very light. In fact, it's so light, you continue to hold it. Are you getting strain? No, so light. Watch this. I can lift this up with one hand. It's the size of a wardrobe. And yet, all right, come on, guys. Thank you very much. That was, actually, I wasn't going to get you to smash it because there's been enough smashing, hasn't there? Yeah. Thank you very much. So the key to this material is its strength to weight ratio. It's really fantastic material for that. So could we use these materials to build ourselves off the planet? That is the question. And make things are really, really tall. And, you know, really, let's defeat gravity once and for all with these light materials. Earlier here, we were looking at the earth. And we worked out that we'd have to get 36,000 kilometers over here before we could really get out of the grips of gravity. So what we want to try and do is build a building 36,000 kilometers high. And we already worked out that we'd need something with very high strength to weight ratio. So let's see how all the materials that we so far come across do on that rating. Oh. Are you still going to get your common sense turned on? That is a very silly material. All right. Now, this is a sort of scale model of the Burj Khalifa. So this is the tallest building in the world scaled down. So it's 0.8 kilometers high. So half a mile high. Now, if we were to build a building out of steel, right, so pure steel, solid steel, and just keep going up 100 meters at the bottom and just keep going up, we'd get up to four kilometers high. So we could, at the moment, build a building four kilometers high. No problem at all. If we use concrete, we'd get up to 4.7 kilometers high. That's incredible. Four points. I mean, it's just insane, isn't it? And it really makes the current buildings that we're living in look just puny. And actually, you probably know this, but actually modern buildings are often built with a combination of steel and concrete. So if you do the calculations, you could probably get up to five kilometers with a combination of these two materials. So five kilometers high for these materials that we kind of know about. What about carbon fiber? What about this fantastic material with strength to weight ratio that's much better? Well, let's see. It's actually extremely high. It's really impressively high. We actually have to go higher and higher, higher than the steel, higher than the concrete, higher than a combination of steel and concrete, and even higher and higher and higher to seven kilometers. So we could build a building seven kilometers high with carbon fiber composite, a material that's really light but strong. And the advantage of that is that there isn't this huge mass bearing down on it because it's so light. And yet it's really strong, so it can really withstand a lot of its own weight. And the other brilliant thing is the view is fantastic up here. Absolutely amazing. Seven kilometers is really impressive. And let's say we could really make some advances. We could get maybe 10 kilometers if we increased better the design. Maybe we could get to 100 kilometers in the next century or so. It still wouldn't be anywhere near 36,000 kilometers, which we'd need to build ourselves off the planet. And that's what we want to do, right? That seems like a really great thing to do. And yet, so is there another way to think about this problem? Crikey. Well, but yeah, you're right. I mean, I can see your point that you're trying to make with that because spiders, they don't build up. They've got more sense than that. They build down. They go up to the top and then they come down on a little fiber. So that gives me an idea. Why can't we do the same thing with this problem? Let's just turn the whole thing upside down. And let's not build up. Let's build down. Or not build, let's send a cable down. So if I'm here orbiting the earth as a satellite, okay, and then I get a cable and I send it down to earth like this. And I keep sending it down and I keep going and I keep going and I keep going and I keep going and I keep going for 36,000 kilometers. And then when we get to the bottom, what we do is we tie it off. I know that sounds ridiculous, but yeah, just go with me on this one. We tie it off and now we've got a cable from a satellite orbiting the earth to the earth surface. Now attach an elevator to that and what do you have? But you have a space elevator and we could just get into it and go up to space. How fantastic would that be? And would just be brilliant. Now the thing is, of course, when you're paying a cable down, it's this huge gravitational force is pulling it to earth because it's an enormous weight of this cable. So again, you need to have a very high strength to weight ratio, wouldn't you? So how strong does it have to be? And if you do the calculations, it turns out that you need something that would be as strong as if you had a 1 millimeter thick fiber of it, so not something a bit like a thread, it would have to suspend the whole audience, which is 20 tons. So that seems like quite a big task. Well, we're thinking about this and we do have fibers that are very strong, don't we? As a scientist, it's very competitive field and often I get the feeling that people want to take a bit of a pop shot at me. So like a lot of other scientists worried about this, I have a body double and occasionally I send the body double to conferences instead of me just to see what happens. And the other week, this is what happened. I knew it. I knew they were after me, but luckily they mistook my body double for me. And here he is. He survived. Now, the reason he survived, and it's not really him because he's obviously plastic, I know that, but he's got one of my shirts on and I'm very, I didn't want him to get, you don't want to get hurt, that hurt. So I put on a Kevlar bulletproof vest and you can see that the bullets, they went in here, we just taken that bit off there and in through here, but they didn't make it through the Kevlar. So these bits on the outside, these are sort of nylon sort of just outer layers. Inside there is the Kevlar. Now Kevlar is an extremely strong fiber. I'm going to show you where the Kevlar is. It's in here. That's Kevlar. It's an extremely fine weave and extremely strong fiber. So what is Kevlar? It's a set of molecules that have been assembled, molecule by molecule at the atomic scale. And so its strength really is very close to the atomic strength of those molecules together. And so you're breaking atomic bonds to break this material and that means that it's extremely strong. Is it strong enough though to build a cable for the space elevator? And it turns out to be not. It would only support a couple of people, a thickness of that fiber. So although Kevlar is fantastic for saving lives and it really is the material of choice, it isn't good enough for what we want it to do. That's a bit of a problem. But recently, there's been some material science discoveries that have kind of given us hope. And it turns out that the ingredients for this material that's given us hope, you've experienced yourself at every birthday you've ever had. And I just want to ask, is there's anyone here whose birthday is this week? It's your birthday this week. All right, do you mind coming down? Hello, what's your name? Catherine. Catherine. And it's your birthday this week with it. What do you have on your birthday? A cake. Fantastic. Here we go. Birthday cake for you for next Monday. Would you believe that the ingredients for a great new material are here? Where are they though? Are they in the cake, the icing, the ribbon, the wax? Well, let me just take a sample of it. And now you can blow out the candles if you like. Happy birthday. So on this last slide, I collected some of the ingredients for this material. And it turns out that until 10 or 20 years ago, we thought that there were only two forms of carbon. There was diamond, which is super hard and translucent. And there was graphite, which you use in pencils. And we thought that was it. And then people started looking around and realized that actually, carbon could arrange itself in some other amazing ways. And one of them we found in the soot of candles, which is an incredible place to find it. So here, in here, are molecules that look like this. And they're called buckyballs. And they're a different way of arranging carbon. And they're really beautiful things. And if you use these and you recombine them, you can make things like this. And these are called carbon nanotubes. And this is a fantastically strong and light material. The reason is this. You've got, it's mostly carbon. Well, it's only carbon, isn't it? It's carbon. Now, carbon's a really light element. It's one of the lightest elements in the periodic table. So your ingredients are really light. The bonds between them are really strong. This is a really strong structure here. And then in the middle, there's nothing. So there's even less density, right? So these things are really, you all know what it's like when you have a piece of paper and it waves about. And then you wrap it into a column. And suddenly it's strong and stiff. You've got the same thing going on here. So at a molecular level, this thing is an extraordinarily strong structure. In fact, it is theoretically, when you do the calculations, you do the quantum mechanics calculations, you find this has the strength we need to make a space-elevator cable. But of course, they're tiny things. Let me show you how small they are. Well, I can't really show you how small they are because, oh, I can show you the jar of them. And, you know, they're individual little nanoscales. I mean, this is at the scale of one billion. So they're billion times smaller than this. So the big challenge is then to join these up to into one long thread. And that's really difficult. Then to get those threads into a twine and then into a cable, right? So if you're familiar with suspension bridges, you've got small bits of steel into a twine, bigger bits of steel, bigger, bigger, bigger, all wrapped around. So that's a cable. So let me tell you how far material scientists have got. They can make nanotubes. So they can do that. And here is some of the first ever in the world examples of threads made with nanotubes. This really is an amazing sample. This is made in the Wendell Lab in Cambridge. And it really is the idea. It is these joined together in a thread. Now, let me show you under the microscope. This is an incredibly exciting moment for everyone because we've been all hoping that this material could be made. And this is really the jump between theory, so the theoretical material science, to the practical material science, and then to the engineering. You know, at the moment, it's not there yet, but it's going to happen. People are going to get better and better at making this into that material. And when they do, we're going to have a material that can make a space elevator. If we've got the materials that we can make this cable out of, and that was the big challenge, the rest looks pretty straightforward. Let me just talk you through all we'd have to do. We'd have to get up into space and we'd have to get a satellite that was orbiting the Earth, geostationally at 36,000 kilometers. Then we'd have to work out a way of making the material up here because we wouldn't want to get up here all the time. So we make it up here and we start paying out this cable down. 36,000 kilometers down. Then we tether it to the Earth. Now, that, you can see where it hits is in the ocean. We want it on the equator and we want it in the ocean because we want to tether it to a boat so that if there's any movement, it's taken up by the sort of viscosity of the sea. Then how would you, of course, you're all thinking this, but hold on a minute, all that would just collapse under its own gravitational weight back into the Earth. Good, good thought. And so what we'd have to do is we'd have to kind of have a counterweight. So we'd send out a piece of material this side which exactly has the counterweight of the force going in. So the whole thing's in balance. Now what happens is that you decide you want to go to space, any of you. And so you get a boat to the docking station and you get on the elevator and you come up 36,000 kilometers and you hit and suddenly you are weightless. How fantastic would that be? Our parents' generation, they went to the moon. They gave that as a present to us and it was an incredible achievement. And we've got to, we've got to live up to that. We've got to do something just as good. We've got to give something to the next generation. And this, I think, is it. This is our challenge for our generation. This is what's left over for us to do, to make mass space transport via an elevator possible for everybody. So let's do it. Come on, guys. Let's just do it. Don't you think? So I hope you've enjoyed these lectures about scale and materials. And we've seen that if you, everything changes as you get smaller. Things get super strong. You can survive enormous falls. You can engineer materials to be incredible. You can, you can, you can devise invisibility shields. And ants are super strong when they're small and hamsters are super strong because they're small and they can survive these enormous falls just because of their size. But we, we get to live longer than them because we're large. So it all depends on how big you are. Size really does matter. And I hope that you've enjoyed this tour through the scale of the universe and life. Thank you very much for listening.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.384906Z ===
