 subjected to subjected to No, and this actually will be a very gentle discussion regarding the experiments that I think we are more or less able to do at present, and which I think could lead us to some new physics. So before I do that, of course, I have to tell you a little bit about our two most successful theories that we have quantum physics and general relativity. And merging these two theories has been an open problem for a long time. The second point I'm making is an extremely important one, and I know it surprises quite a few people, that we are able to do this simply because of an exponentially rapid development of quantum technologies in the last 20 years. So year 2000 onwards, I think people started to realize that maybe making a full-scale, large quantum computer is not just a thought experiment, it's not just a dream, it's not just an idea, but actually this could be executed. And now, probably most of you know that at present we have many heavy industries engaged in this, and there is really a rapid progress, so we are improving the sensitivity of our measurements, how deep we can go and test all of these ideas. So we really owe it to that. Incidentally, historically, I think the Industrial Revolution was physics that came out of it, it was triggered in a very similar way by engineers getting there first, making all of these things, and then physicists starting to ask questions, what are the limitations of this? How much work can I really get out of these systems? Is energy conserved and so on? So I think we are going through a very similar period now as far as quantum technologies are concerned. So I want to give you to zoom out a little bit. This is this famous physics cube, and it contains the three fundamental constants, and that's really what I want to tell you about, how to test the domain where all of these things matter. So you have Newton's constant G, this upper axis here, and the larger G, you're almost imagining that you can switch G off. Obviously, G is a constant, but you could be in a regime where G doesn't really matter that much. This axis is Planck's constant. We are talking about quantum mechanics being more and more relevant as you go in this direction. Here is the domain of Newtonian classical mechanics. So we are quite confident about that. We understand that and we understand where that collapses really. And in this third direction, we have the speed of light. I put it down as one over the speed of light. The reason being that you recover the usual non-relativistic thing when the speed of light is assumed to be really large. You take C going to infinity, which gets you back to classical mechanics. So we've tested lots of these things, but we haven't tested this side of the cube very much at all. So we've done things in quantum field theory, but we haven't tested, and this is the area where somehow quantum mechanics and gravity both matter. And I'm using an awful lot of jargon here that I think will be clear to you as we go along. But here we have even theories that are arguing that gravity should remain classical and somehow it could still be combined with quantum mechanics. I'm very much against this idea, and the field is very exciting precisely because we have all of these views competing. And then the final vertex here, the closest one to us would be what some people call theory of everything. But that doesn't really matter to us tonight because we don't really know. None of this depends on whether there is even a theory of everything. We don't know that. No one knows anything about that. But it would be nice if we had a theory that encapsulates at least all of the stuff that we've had so far. So the philosophy I followed in my book, I think it's the usual philosophy that leads us to new physics and not just new physics. It leads us to new science, I would say, almost always. I don't think I can think of a single exception to this. So basically, it would be something that John Wheeler, the famous American physicist who inspired a whole generation of people in the 50s and 60s and 70s to work on these and related problems, he called it radical conservatism. So don't worry, it's not a political doctrine. It's basically an attitude where you are conservative as far as the fundamental principles of your best theories are. So we're going to assume that the principles of quantum mechanics and the principles of general relativity are both correct. And the radical part of this is that we're going to push them so far into a domain where they start to possibly feel uncomfortable. We haven't tested them there. And these are domains where both gravity and quantum mechanics matter. And I think every revolution, if you think about relativity, if you think about quantum mechanics, how that came about, it was exactly asking the same questions. Which principles from classical physics can we take over into the new theory and what do we really have to discard given our experimental results? So that's the attitude that I'm advocating. So let me give you one slide. I'm afraid that this is going to be a crash course on quantum mechanics and a crash course on relativity. But you'll see as we go along and as I take you through these five experiments that I have in mind, you will see exactly I think what's at stake and why I think they're interesting. So in quantum mechanics, the only thing you really have to understand, Richard Feynman, John Willard's student said this is the only mystery in quantum mechanics. He called it the only mystery. By the way, you can see that even physicists, big physicists disagree on what is the only mystery. But he called the superposition principle. That's one of those principles that I want to be conservative about. I want to keep it, actually. And I want to see how far it takes us. So the simplest experiment, and we've done this with all sorts of systems. I'm using a photon here, a particle of light, because that's the easiest thing to do. But we've done this with atoms. We've done this with subatomic particles. We've done this with molecules. And people are now going towards living systems and want to put a virus and a bacterium in a superposition of different states. So the reason why I'm saying this is that that's why I'm so confident that this principle should probably, will probably survive ultimately. So I don't want to give it up now and start altering it. So how do we know that, actually? The simplest experiment that we do here, and that's the interesting thing, is that if you sent a photon through a single beam splitter, so this is simply a piece of glass, you can do it in a fancier way, but think of it as a piece of glass, just like your sunglasses, if you like. And it has a certain probability to let the photon go through and a certain probability to bounce the photon and get it detected by detector one. And if you make this half transparent, the beam splitter, as you repeat this experiment, you will see that half of the photons end up in the detector two and the other half end up in the detector one. It's always 50-50. But the feature of quantum mechanics that Einstein always complained about, you know, God doesn't play dice, quantum mechanics does not allow us to tell what's going to happen in each individual run of this experiment. So it really is as random as anything we've seen in physics. You can prepare the photon exactly the same way. Everything can be controlled in the same way, and you will never really be able to tell which way the photon will go. It becomes deterministic only as you repeat this many times and you get the 50-50 statistics. Then you can bet that it will come out that way. Now the other complaint, you can almost learn quantum mechanics by going through the complaints of Einstein's, by the way. They're almost like the axioms of quantum mechanics. Just negate them. So the first one, God really does play dice, as far as we know. The second one was the famous spooky action at the distance. And it comes about because of this. Imagine you don't detect your photon, but you put two mirrors instead of two detectors and you recombine the two parts of the photon and you introduce another beam splitter. So this piece of apparatus is exactly the same as that. Imagine it's A-50-50 beam splitter. And so now what happens, and that's really the main surprise here, is that as you run this experiment, you only get detector one to click and never detector two. And that's really weird because I spent about two minutes trying to convince you that this is as random as it gets. Now I introduce another random element and it suddenly becomes deterministic. And the reason why Einstein didn't like it is because you had to acknowledge, and every interpretation, I promise to you, every interpretation of quantum mechanics does have to acknowledge this in one shape or form, that the photon really goes down both of these arms of the interferometer simultaneously. It really splits itself at the beam splitter. And then it gets recombined. Both of these parts get recombined. And because it behaves still like a wave, this is this famous wave and particle duality in quantum mechanics, the waves in this direction cancel each other out. They're exactly out of phase so that the maximum of one wave are the minimum of the other one. So they give you zero signal, if you like, zero probability here, whereas they enhance each other when they go in this direction. But the spooky thing what Einstein didn't like, and this is one of the consequences of this, and we've tested it, people have Nobel prices now when they tested all of these things, it's really beyond doubt at this level that we are discussing. Imagine you put the detector here. These arms of the interferometer could be as large as you like. You could actually imagine a cosmic interferometer where you have a star sending photons to us, but they're really going around the massive object which curves these parts, the gravitational lensing when they come to us. It's like a cosmic interferometer. And Einstein's complaint was the following one. Then I put the detector here and I don't get a click. With half a probability I'm not going to get a photon detected by the detector. Suddenly what quantum mechanics tells us is that there is a photon in the other arm of the interferometer. So I put the detector on one side of a black hole, I don't get a click, and suddenly I know there is a photon miles away on the other side. That's kind of what he was complaining about. And nature really is like that. And the funny thing is that it's perfectly fine with relativity at this level. It really doesn't allow us to do anything faster than the speed of light. So he was needlessly worried about it because quantum mechanics beautifully complies with relativity as well. So that's somehow, if you ask which path does the photon take, you really have to acknowledge at some point that there is something going down both of these paths. Because if you assume that it only takes one of these paths, then it's simply going to come out randomly at the next beam splitter and you're not going to be able to explain the perfect interference that you get here. So now special relativity. Like I said, it's a crash course on quantum. This was all I had to say on quantum mechanics. And now relativity is equally, I would say, counterintuitive, but possibly in a different way. Although the two theories do have a lot of similarities. And what I try to explain a bit more in my book is that actually they're not as different if you think about them a bit harder as maybe some people would suggest. So the famous twin paradox in special relativity, the one that says that time is relative to how fast you are moving. And I think most of you know about this, that you have two twins on Earth. Let's say one of them goes on a journey, travels somewhere and comes back and suddenly the traveling twin ends up being younger than the twin that remains on Earth. And that sounds really paradoxical. It's just that people have done these experiments, of course, not with twins, but they've done it with atomic clocks. They've taken atomic clocks on flights, Australia and back and low and behold really when the atomic clock comes back, it's actually younger than the one that stayed stationary here. So we have lots of even indirect, not even as direct as this evidence that this is true. It's all because of the simultaneity. And that's what Einstein actually, that was his biggest contribution, that what I think takes place at the same time in my own frame, if I'm standing still, someone who is traveling by on a train, I think that was the example that Einstein used, in fact would see one of these events happen before the other one. So we can never have an absolute agreement on things that happen at the same time and that's amazing. I drew a different picture here which is an even more stunning example. Some people would call it a paradox. Every time you see a paradox in quantum and in relativity, they're not paradoxes. We really don't have any paradoxes. The two theories are ridiculously successful. And that's precisely why I want to push them into a domain where we may get something genuinely different. The Andromeda paradox says the following. You have two people who are walking past one another, just like in my drawing there. And there is a distant galaxy. I want something distant so that it takes a long time to get there so that the effect becomes as large as possible. Now generals on this Andromeda, on one of the planets in this galaxy, generals are sitting in their war room and they're about to decide whether they want to invade Earth. They're sitting and they're voting on the invasion. Now the person walking away from Andromeda will have a different notion of simultaneity. The general sitting down is simultaneous with what, as far as he is concerned, to the person walking towards Andromeda. And now if you do the calculation and it does sound amazing, it just does. But that's that special relativity for you. As far as she's concerned, the generals have already decided. The vote has been cast and they know whether they're invading the Earth or not. For this guy, his simultaneity tells him that the generals haven't yet sat down to make their decision. And this all comes about because they're moving in different directions. They could even go at the same slow walking speed. It's not about speeds. That's why I chose a large distance. But the person walking away will say, well, we don't know yet. It's uncertain. We don't know whether they will decide on that. Whereas the lady here knows that the outcome is already certain. That sounds amazing to me. How can that be? But it can be. I mean, that's the way relativity is. So the question is, does this principle sit well with the superposition principle? And those are all of these interesting things to explore. So here is my first thought experiment that I want to run by you. Sorry, this is from, this is almost, I think this is a biographical book of Peter Cooks. Peter Cook is one of the famous comedians. I like him a lot actually. And I think he entitled it tragically, I was an only twin. It's one of his one liners. And it's super appropriate here because what I would like to test is whether you can do Einstein's twins, but with only one particle. Can we do that with just a single atomic clock? So what do I have in mind? Imagine you can make a superposition of this clock being in two different places at the same time, just like the photon. And when the clock is in one of these places, you take the clock on a journey and then return it back. That's all this slide is really showing you. It makes the superposition, then takes it on this round trip and merges these two together. So now look how funny this actually sounds. You have one in the same system sitting in the same location, but with one probability you have a younger version of that system and with another quantum mechanical probability if you like, you have an older version. So now it's not that I have two twins. I have one object which is in a superposition of being younger and older. And now I'm going to say at the same time, and you can see how our language is not even sophisticated. What do I mean at the same time? How can it be younger and older at the same time? Whose time are you talking about now? And the interesting thing, and that's where quantum mechanics is similar in many ways to relativity, is that quantum mechanics also has multiple perspectives. So there is a perspective of the younger clock, there is a perspective of the older clock, there's advanced more, and there is also the perspective of the person doing the experiment that I just described. And that person has yet another clock timing the whole experiment. So believe it or not, we haven't tested this, but our two theories are telling us that we should actually take this seriously. So if you really want to know what time it is for that object, you have to perform a measurement and then you've got the usual God place dice. With half a probability you're going to get the younger version less time and with the other half probability you'll get more time. And this to me sounds really fantastic. No one has done this experiment. Now gravity, so I'm going to, lots of these experiments are with time and ultimately I will take us to the domain where I'm testing the quantum nature of gravity and that's going to be really the last thing that I want to show you. But continuing with this theme of time, simply because time is another one of these concepts that we argue in physics a lot about, is time a fundamental concept? Is it something that really is emergent? Is there an error of time? Why does time seem to flow, so to speak, in one direction? And why is it so difficult to reverse things and go backwards in time? So that's the kind of the spirit of lots of these things. But before we get there, I'm saying that the similar effect exists in general relativity. So the previous experiment was all about special relativity. But if you include gravity, you now have the famous effect that I think you've all seen in movies like Interstellar, where an object that's closer to the center of gravity, let's say closer to Earth, will age less than an object that's higher up. I think in Interstellar that was a neutron star and the difference was really huge between the two times. But because our atomic clocks are so accurate, you can actually tell the difference in gravity. If you elevate your atomic clock by 10 centimeters, by half a meter, you will already see the last two or three digits change because of the gravitational time dilation. And that's always been amazing to me, actually. So my feet and your feet as well are actually aging slower than my head. I mean, admittedly, it's a tiny difference. It's 10 to minus 16 seconds. So even if you add that up over the whole lifetime, you're not going to be able to detect that difference. Certainly it doesn't make any difference, biologically speaking. But it's kind of interesting there is a gradient of that kind. So the second experiment I would like to do, and again, we are very close to being able to do that because we know better and better how to manipulate quantum superpositions. And we have better and better time keepers as well. So all of these things are now conspiring positively, if you like, for us to be able to do these things. So what you need to do is exactly the interference experiment I showed you before. What you need to send one branch of the system to some higher gravitational field or lower, in this case, gravitational field. The other one goes to a different gravitational field. And what you're really measuring is the difference between these two. And the way you measure them is that you recombine these two possibilities and then you detect them. And the detection probability really tells you how big the difference between the two arms is. So it's very interesting. So it's a quantum superposition directly affected by gravity. And it doesn't matter. I don't want to bore you too much with the mathematics, but there is a contribution that some of you will recognize as the Newtonian contribution. So had Newton known quantum mechanics, he would have probably predicted that there is a difference between these two simply that goes as m times g, the gravitational constant, times the height difference, mgh, what you call potential energy, gravitational potential energy. But the second term here is the one that's interesting for us to test, because that's a genuine gravitational, that's a gr, general relativistic correction to that. So we already know that this exists here. And experiments have confirmed it, but the question is really to go beyond that. And no one knows. It could be that something goes wrong when you have a quantum mechanical superposition. We've never really tested general relativity in the proximity, if you like, of quantum superpositions. So let me spend a few slides before I tell you about another experiment with time. I'm going to go quickly through this. But the key thing, and maybe this gives you a good intuition as to why it's so difficult to make quantum computers. This is all at the root of that. The reason why these experiments are difficult is very closely related to why we don't have a full universal quantum computer yet. And the difficulty is simply in performing interference. So you have to be able to make a superposition, but that's only half of the experiment. You then have to bring these two elements of the superposition back to the same place. And that sounds awfully like reversing the arrow of time. And actually, it really is. And we know we can do this with simple systems, but there is then a fundamental question. How large can an object be to still allow us to make these kind of interference experiments? So make a superposition and then undo it and see what happens. And that's how we test all quantum interference, really. And there is a long, long history that I don't want to bore you too much with. But Boltzmann was really the first person to seriously attack this problem. To ask, how do I get anything irreversible? He was thinking not about quantum mechanics, but about Newtonian mechanics. But Newtonian mechanics is equally reversible, if you like. It's the same issue there. And Boltzmann was struggling to explain why do we see that disorder increases when everything ultimately can go in both directions in time? Why doesn't it just come back to the original initial situation? And I think he introduced something that's called the assumption of molecular chaos. So what Boltzmann, and this is relevant to us now because I want to test this within the quantum domain. And it will give us something that seems absurd as well, but it seems to me it's a genuine possibility. So he thought we have all of these atomic collisions in a gas, molecular collisions. And then he said, yes, it's reversible if I can follow each of these collisions, keep track of all of them, then I can probably reverse it. But actually, it's enough to confuse the following thing. When two atoms collide, let's call them A and B, whether A goes in the upward direction or downward direction is something that Boltzmann imagines we forget. We simply don't know which atom goes which way or which molecule goes which way after the collision. And Boltzmann says very quickly after having gazillions of these collisions in a typical gas, you're going to end up in a situation where you won't know what the initial state was. It's a very simple illustration here. Imagine you take all the molecules in this room and you put them in one corner of this room. It wouldn't be good for the rest of us, but I think it's just a thought experiment. And imagine you have another scenario where you put all of these molecules into another corner. They're perfectly distinguishable. They're completely different initial configurations. But Boltzmann says let them evolve and let them evolve in a careless way that you don't really keep track of what they're doing in each individual collision. Ultimately, you're going to get something that looks like that. And good luck telling whether that comes from this situation or that situation. So he somehow acknowledged that yes, it's reversible, but in fact, practically, if you just even forget a little bit of information, you're going to get something that's irreversible. And this is, by the way, the only way we still are present.  understand why there is an arrow of time. It's kind of because of the extra statistical assumption that I made there. So needless to say, there were many people who complained to him about this kind of logic. Lachschmidt was, there were all his colleagues in Vienna. I think he had a really hard time defending all of his views. Some of them didn't even believe in the existence of atoms at that time, by the way. So Lachschmidt said, why don't you just take each of these atoms, reverse each of the velocities in the opposite direction, and surely they should go back, and you will know exactly where they go back to, because it's reversible. Boltzmann was very humorous. He sent him a postcard which said, go ahead and reverse them. And that's again saying the complexity of this situation is such that this is very hard to imagine to do with a very common. We can do it with a handful of atoms, and actually that's exactly what quantum interference is about. But we don't know how to do this with larger systems. The other one was the mellow, was another famous objection. He said, Lachschmidt, forget about reversing them. You don't even have to do that. All you need to do is wait for long enough, and if the dynamics is reversible, it's going to come back spontaneously to the original configuration. That's something that's known as the Poincarevry currents, and quantum mechanics has it as well. And probably you are guessing what Boltzmann's answer for that was, it was go ahead and wait. And of course the wait is much longer than the age of the universe. Yes, if you have infinite time, it will do that infinitely many times, but actually that's not the universe that we happen to live in. So here is the experiment number three. What can quantum mechanics add to this? Quantum mechanics can really make this even more bizarre. And again, it's to do with the superposition principle, which like I said, I'm taking seriously. I don't think it's going to collapse at this level, but that's exactly what we are testing. Is it going to be like this? So you take a complicated system, put it in a superposition, think again of two different locations, and then imagine that in one of these locations, you run a forward direction dynamics, and in the other one, this minus one simply means you are going backwards in time. So what is amazing with this is that we have a system in a superposition of going forward as far as time is concerned and backwards. And this surely sounds paradoxical. Many of my colleagues would say, no, you're never going to be able to do that with a complex system. But that's the interesting thing here, because it really shows you that somehow quantum mechanics is able to maybe handle any of these arrows of time, and not just that, it can even make a superposition of these arrows of time. And again, you can do this easily with a single particle. People have done some of these simple experiments, but the real question is how complicated can this system be and still be in a quantum superposition of two different arrows of time? So that's certainly something worth testing. So we are getting now closer to gravity, and quantizing gravity is really the biggest outstanding question in physics at present. We don't know how to do that, again, in my view, for the simple reason that we have zero experimental evidence in which direction to go. So you will have something like five, broadly, five different classes of theories competing, and each of them claiming that they are a way to quantize gravity, or to merge, not necessarily even to quantize gravity, but to bring the principles of quantum mechanics together with the principles of general relativity. And we don't know, any of them could ultimately be correct, they could all be wrong as well, there could be something else that we are missing. But what's really missing is any experimental clue from this domain. So the radical part here is absent, we just don't know which direction to take. And so I want to tell you something that I've done with Chiara Maletto. So the main, this is one of those principles that I think most of us physicists would not like to give up, and it's called the equivalence principle. Einstein called it the happiest thought of his life. Okay, so this is a guy, imagine, who went through how many world wars, how many marriages, how many kids and all of that, and the happiest thought of his life is coming up with the equivalence principle. You know, that's the passion that you need for fundamental physics. So what's the happiest thought that he had? He imagined himself falling in a lift, in a closed box so that you cannot look outside. If you can look outside, then you can figure out what's going on. But he thought if I'm falling in a lift and gravity makes everything fall at the same rate, independently, Galileo already knew that, independently of the mass, then the objects next to me, if I drop them as well, will just appear to be completely stationary with respect to me. So actually, by falling in gravity, I'm effectively in an inertial frame, which means I switched gravity off. That's the profound idea. Once you understood this, you can actually do the whole general relativity. You can derive most of the key results in general relativity by just understanding this principle. So how did... There is a very simple way of illustrating this. And apparently, this was one of the favorite toys of Einstein as well. He got it for one of his birthdays. So you've got a cup. You can make it at home. It's very easy. You've got a plaque. I should have probably brought it here myself. I'm just too lazy. So you have a cup and you have a rubber band. And the table tennis ball, ping-pong ball is here. And under normal circumstances, the force that's pulling the ball into the cup and gravitational force here balance each other out. So as you hold it like this, the ball is just dangling outside of this cup. And now you drop it. That's your Einstein's lift. And Einstein says, as you drop it, gravity switches off. This guy doesn't feel gravity. And lo and behold, the ball goes inside. You can do this experiment. It's the simplest one. And that's the simplest confirmation of the equivalence principle. It's a genius idea, actually, very far-reaching. So that's Einstein's toy. Now, what's the... You can probably anticipate what a quantum mechanic like myself is going to ask. What happens if I'm falling and not falling at the same time in gravity? Let's put quantum superpositions here. Let's take this idea seriously. And let's put it in an object that really exists in two different states of motion at the same time. All hell breaks loose. I have a recent paper. I think there were six of us on the theoretical side. And I think no two people agreed with one another. The paper is still unpublished. We're still discussing what's going on. But the idea is, literally, I'm drawing it in a kind of Galilean style. You literally launch an object in a superposition of, let's say, taking a ballistic trajectory in the gravitational field, just as a cannonball would. And you put the other object to go at a constant. Maybe you put some supporting table here so that this guy just rolls at constant velocity. And then you ask yourself, what happens to the equivalence principle now? And if you take these two seriously, and that's what I think will happen, and that's exactly what this experiment was aimed to test, is that you think that along this trajectory, you will obey the equivalence principle, and the same along this trajectory. So one way to merge these two principles, the superposition and the equivalence, is to simply acknowledge that Einstein is right in every element of the superposition. That's what I believe. And I think the experiment I'll show you shows that. My colleague Roger Penrose, for instance, believes that gravity will collapse quantum mechanics. He was wrong in this instance. But it is possible, and we're all open to this possibility, which is why this is an exciting question, that maybe something funny happens to either of these two principles. But it seems to me you can have them at the same time. This is my colleague Ron Folman from Israel, who actually had a tiny microchip on which he mounted the Bose condensate. So this is this collection of atoms that really behaves... It's a large collection. You're talking millions of atoms, all behaving like one superatom. And he literally introduced a beam splitter. You can do that if you arrange your optical fields in the right way. He made a beam splitter to exactly implement this idea that one part of the condensate undergoes a ballistic motion, and the other one goes in a straight line. And then you ask yourself what happens when they meet here. And what happens is exactly the difference in the phase, as we call it in quantum mechanics, that they get. So you can detect that. But the interesting thing is that the superposition survives, and the equivalence principle, if understood in this branch by branch quantum way, also survives. So I think that's really interesting. So I would say both theories have passed this test. So let me take you through this last experiment that I wanted to show you, because I think this would be the most impactful one, really. And here, Sugato Bose at UCL here in London and his team came up with an idea at the same time as Kiaro Maletto and myself. So a few years back, we thought, could we actually not just test whether gravity survives or quantum mechanics survives, but could we really test whether gravity itself does have some quantum mechanical features? Is it capable of being in a superposition of different states? And I think this, if you ask me for what I think would be the most pressing experiment to do, it would be this one. And I think there is a race on now, maybe 10 different groups in the world are really trying to set this up. And as I said, quantum technologies are allowing us to do something. The challenge is that you really need an object that's massive enough so that gravity is really detectable, because as you know, that's the weakest force that we have. So this is a variant of everything I've showed you so far. And what you do is you take two different masses, you make each of them in a superposition of two different locations. So this zero just means the mass is in this branch. One means the mass is here. And likewise for this, and what you are now testing is whether gravity, so it also assumes that you are controlling all other sources of noises, all other forces you can account for. Ideally, you can eliminate them even. So if you make the objects neutral, hopefully you can eliminate any electromagnetic interaction between these objects, because you don't want anything to interfere with gravity. You really want to get the signal mainly from the gravitational field. And the question now is, and it's again very interesting, because the gravity here is still at the Newtonian level. But what you're asking is whether the gravitational force now acts between each element of the superposition at the same time. I wonder what Newton would have said about this, right? So Newton incidentally even doubted waves, and he thought that he had a particle-like explanation for waves as well. And this is of course all about the other way around, that even objects that we traditionally think of as particles actually do behave as waves. So that means there would be a gravitational interaction between this position and that position, this position and this position, these two positions and these two. So there are four different channels through which gravity would have to simultaneously act if it's quantum mechanical. And that's interesting. And what it leads us to, so what's the signature ultimately, it leads us to what Schrodinger, as you know, called entanglement. Schrodinger said, unlike Feynman, Schrodinger said entanglement is the characteristic trait. That's the thing that has absolutely no classical analog. So what does that mean? It means that the gravitational force between these two would make the final state so that if you make a measurement and you see this particle here, the corresponding one will be in this position. And if you detect the particle here, the corresponding one is in the other position. It's exactly the spooky action at the distance that Einstein wouldn't have liked. But like I said, it complies perfectly with relativity. In this case, in fact, it seems to comply with general relativity as well. So to me, it's very interesting because this would be like the basic experiment to even tell us which way to proceed with gravity. If you do get entanglement, it means gravity, at least at this level, must have some quantum mechanical degrees of freedom. It doesn't exactly tell us which degrees of freedom. All of these theories that are advocating quantization of gravity would pass something like this. So that's the slide here that I'm saying. But what I want to show you, in fact, is the numbers, just to give you an intuition of how difficult this is. So the mass of each of these two masses would have to be something like a nanogram, 10 to minus 12 kilograms. And this is a pretty large object. Like I said, we've never put anything as massive as that in a superposition of two different places. So that's a challenge number one. Even if you do half of this experiment, you're going to get front cover nature paper, I think. So that's just a challenge you want. And it could be a fantastic technological piece of metrology. If you want to really detect very sensitive vibrations, that's probably the way to go, even if you're not thinking about gravity. The distance is also challenging. You have to make these interferometers so close to one another to within roughly a micron, 10 to minus 6 meters. Probably hundreds of microns will do the job as well. And you also have to keep them in this entangled state, in this superposed state, for as long as a microsecond. Now, to you a microsecond, you know, it's a millionth of a second. It may sound like a very short time. But the problem is that in this quantum world, noise frequently acts on scales that are much faster than this. So you're going to get noise that's a million times, sometimes faster than that. And if you cannot control anything like this, any stray fields that you couldn't account for, any vibrations you didn't account for, could actually spoil this kind of entanglement. So it's a very challenging experiment, even in terms of engineering. But to me, it seems very much worth doing, not only because of all the applications that it has, and I think there are multitudes, but simply because it would tell us on the fundamental side of physics, what's going on with gravity. Should we really be thinking of gravity as quantum mechanical, or should we be doing something with quantum mechanics and distorting it in some way? Should we be limiting the superposition principle and acknowledging that the things are not like that? And we don't know, no one knows. So one of the experiments I wanted to show you, this is the famous group in Vienna. They already have one Nobel laureate and probably will have another two, is my guess in the not-so-distant future. So this is Markus Aspelmeyer. Anton Zalinger is the boss of that group, and he was the Nobel Prize winner in 2022 for confirming entanglement, actually, in all sorts of settings. But what Markus Aspelmeyer is imagining is that he has these two masses, which are basically vibrating very close to one another. And you can think of this vibration as really being in a quantum mechanical superposition of different locations. And each of these, now, the question, again, is when you have the gravitational force between the two, does it really act point by point simultaneously? Is every point here where the sphere could be going to couple gravitationally to every point on this side? You can see how this is in the spirit of the superposition principle. And again, if you do get that, you can verify that through entanglement. If you don't get any entanglement, and if you've really eliminated all possible sources of noise, then you know that gravity is not quantum mechanical. And that's very interesting. Then we're starting... So a person like me is betting that gravity will pass this test as a quantum mechanical field as well. But secretly, I'm hoping that it fails because then we really have no idea what to do. That somehow really means that something is deeply wrong with our understanding. And of course, no one knows which way this will go. So this is my last slide. The big picture really is that we are very close to testing quantum physics on genuinely macroscopic systems. So this year's Nobel Prize were people who actually showed that electrical circuits can also behave in a quantum mechanical way. They showed what we learned in high school that when a current comes to a junction, then part of the current goes one way and the other part of the current goes the other way. That's called the Kirchhoff rule, one of the two. That's actually completely wrong in the quantum world. And you've guessed it, current goes both ways at the same time. So they've actually made quantum bits out of superconductors which behave exactly in this quantum mechanical way. So that's kind of the closest we've come to being macroscopic. But these are tiny, people would call them mesoscopic, somewhere in between micro and macro. So I think what's exciting is that we are really now in the domain where we can test this and will it pass? And what does this mean for our understanding of the classical world? What I'm saying here, maybe point number two is important and I think that goes back to what I said that we wouldn't have a clue as to what to do, is that it's clear that no halfway picture will do the job because we simply don't know how to combine this with other principles that we believe and trust in physics. So if you have any conservation, conservation of energy, conservation of momentum, all of this goes out of the window if your system consists of something that's half quantum and half classical. We don't even know mathematically how to put them together to obey these very basic symmetries that we all trust and they've never been violated. And then the final point which as I said excites me the most is that we are probably within a decade maybe, maybe even faster from having first violation of Einstein's theory of general relativity and that would be great because like I said, if we showed that gravity has to be quantum mechanical, then certainly the equations that Einstein had have to be upgraded to take into account the superposition principle. At present they don't and we've never tested them in the domain where this has to be the case. That's all I have to say, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.