 subjected to ser查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 Welcome to the last of this year's Christmas lectures on time. Excuse me young man. Well who are you? I'm your older self, just visiting from the year 2050. And I didn't want to miss a lecture. I remember it was rather good. So get on with it. Time travel, fiction or fact? Today we're going to look at exactly what it takes to make the impossible possible. Now journey is going to take us to the outer limits of what we currently understand about time. And again some of the hardest problems facing theoretical physics at the end of this century. So hold on to your seats. Now story starts with a duck pond. And with this man, Thomas Young. Because about 200 years ago he was sitting by a duck pond watching some ducks. And I have here a pair of ducks. We'll have a look at what Thomas Young saw. Just wind up my ducks. What he saw as the ducks swam around was a pattern appearing in the water which you can see down here. Now the pattern was caused by ripples on the water leaving the ducks and interfering with each other. You can see it in a more controlled way. Here we have a motor that's actually going to cause ripples. And it's going to pass through two slits. And these slits are going to produce ripples which go out into the water and actually interfere. Very much like with the two ducks. You can see a pattern emerging. You can see here along this line two ripples are adding up. So you're getting bright and dark lines. But here it doesn't look like anything's happening. That's because the ripples have actually cancelled each other out. Now this made him pretty happy. First of all because he liked ducks. But second of all because it reminded him of an experiment he'd done a couple of years earlier with light. I'm going to show you now what he saw with his light experiment. Here we have something very similar to the pond and the two ducks. Actually very similar to that tank with water and the two slits. Because here we have something that produces light. And the light passes through two slits actually very close together. Because light has a very short wavelength, a very small wave. So you can't actually see these two slits. But it's the same idea. And then the light passes on and hits this screen. You can actually see a pattern that's quite similar to what we saw on the tank with the water. And there are regions of bright and dark and bright and dark and bright and dark. So this said in thinking, well if I saw the same pattern as I saw on water and I know that waves travel on water, that must mean that light is a wave. After all, particles wouldn't do this. Let's have a look at what particles would do. For this I need a volunteer with a lot of puff. Could you come down? Your name is? J. J. Could you stand here? Now what you're going to do is you're going to blow through this tube and here is sand. Now sand consists of grains, particles, lots of them. And they're all packed in here. And as J blows, he's actually going to blow sand through this box, up against these two slits and the sand can pass through these two slits, very much like the two slits we had with light. And on the back here, we've got a screen which is going to collect the particles of sand as they go through the slits. So, huff and a puff and blow through the tube, J. Keep going. Great. You can do a little bit less. That's it. That's great. Thanks very much. Go back to sleep. I'm just going to show you what's on the screen. And this is it. It's not really a surprise. There are two stripes, very much like the two slits. Of course, sand consists of grains, like little particles, and they either go through one slit or they go through the other slit. And that's what you're seeing. These particles have gone through one slit, these have gone through the other slit. So this is what sand does and this is what particles do. They produce this pattern and it's unlike the pattern that you get with waves. Now we're going to try something a little different. We saw the pattern that light produced, nothing like the sand. But here, we've got essentially the same piece of equipment as before, but we're going to turn the brightness of the light down. Here we have the source of light over here. And it's passing through two slits, but we've had to cover this up because we don't want any light to get in. The light passes through the two slits, goes over to the other side. Instead of a screen over here, we've actually got a camera because this detects really low levels of light. I'm going to see what we see. Actually, up there on the screen, you can see what the camera is picking up. The first surprise is it's picking up dots, blips. This is light travelling through this, but it's arriving as blips, like the sand, as particles. So that's amazing. But have a look at this. If we collect up all these blips, collected over a time period, and have a look at what the pattern is, we see something quite remarkable. The pattern you see is the pattern that waves make. But the light arrives in blips, in packets, as small particles, which physicists call photons. So this is incredible because the light's travelling, making a pattern as though it were going through two slits. Because remember, to make that wave pattern, there have got to be two sources, two slits. The light's got to go through both slits, and yet it's arriving as a blip, as a particle, like the sand. This is the essence of the weirdness, of the spookiness in the quantum world. Now, physicists have been debating these aspects of quantum physics throughout this century. Back in 1927, actually there weren't that many physicists around, and here they all are. In a conference in Solray, there was a great debate about what exactly was going on in the quantum world. In particular, this man, Albert Einstein, won a Nobel Prize for showing that light was actually a particle, was actually made up of these photons. He didn't like this strangeness of quantum physics, the quantum world, whereby the particle somehow seemed to go through both slits at the same time. I mean, which one was it going through? Surely it goes through one and not the other, and somehow we've just got the interpretation of the experiment wrong. Well, he thought that the way out of this problem, of course one has to remember at that time, they couldn't do any of these experiments. These experiments have only become possible very recently because of developments in technology. But he went through a process of thought experiments, and he thought there was something missing in our picture of quantum particles. That somehow these particles of light knew themselves inside which slit they would go through. It's just that we somehow couldn't detect that, we couldn't pick that up. Now he knew it would be really difficult to take a particle of light and actually kind of look inside it. So he set up the following thought experiment. He imagined the following. Now just as nowadays psychologists, when they're trying to work out the character of somebody, they may take a pair of twins and actually separate them out and look at what one does and see if the other one does something similar. Well, that's the type of experiment that he imagined doing. He imagined taking a pair of quantum particles, created it exactly the same moment, and separate them off, and tickle one and see if the other one laughs. Well, let's investigate what precisely would be involved in that. Because it is now possible to actually produce pairs of quantum particles. Today wasn't then, but I need a volunteer to help me. Could you come down? Your name is? Max. Max, just down there. Max, any good at drawing? No. Okay, well now we'll test that. So what I want you to do, I'm going to hand you some paint. I just want you to just slap on the outline of that hand on there. That's it. You're an artist. Perfect. Keep going. Great. A couple more fingers. Brilliant. That's great, Max. Okay, just stand there. Now you're going to help me create a pair of quantum particles and twins. So let's place this on top. Place this, help me place this card on top. Now press down. Smash it down. Go on, all over. That's it. Now hold this up. Now we have a pair here, and we're actually going to separate them off. And Max, you're going to take one, and I'm going to take the other. That's it. Pull them apart. There you go. Sit up. Now, what we've created is a pair. Actually, it's like a pair of hands or a pair of gloves. And Max, I think you've got, well, let's say the right one. I've got the left one. Okay. Now what I want you to do, Max, since we're talking about gloves, I've got a pair of gloves behind my back. What I want you to do, Max, is just pick out one of these gloves. Don't show me. So I'm going to go off. Now, I realize I've lost a glove. Got two opportunities to find out which glove I've lost. I can either go over and interrogate Max. Or I can look at this glove. Because I know they came as a pair. Well, this one's a left one. So Max must have the right one. Max? Great. Okay. Thanks very much. Go and sit down. So I instantly knew something about a glove that was on the other side of the floor, in Max's hands. But that's not so much of a surprise, because after all, they come in pairs. And the gloves knew which was which. Just that I didn't know until I looked. But that's not how things work in the quantum world. And we're going to look at some quantum gloves. And I need to volunteer. Could you come down? Your name is? Emilia. Emilia. Emilia, I'm going to hand you a tray. It's got a box on it. And in this box is a glove. I want you to go and stand over there. That's it. Turn around. And I've got another box. And it's got the other glove in it. But I don't know whether this is a right or a left glove. All I know is, if this is right, then Emilia must have the left. If this is left, Emilia must have the right. But the point is, unlike real gloves, quantum gloves or quantum particles, when they're created as a pair, it's not that they know that they're right or left. Even they don't know whether they're right or left. Inside this box, the quantum glove is at the same time right and left. Now, it should be really clear. It's not momentarily right and then left and then right again. No, it lives a double life. Just like the particle of light that went through two slits at the same time, it's living a double life right and left at the same time. It's only when I look at this glove. It's only when I make a measurement here that Emilia's glove decides what it is. Because it knows it should be the opposite. Emilia, thank you very much. So that's what quantum particles do when they're produced as a pair. They are a pair, but they lead a double life until they're measured. Now, Richard Feynman, a very famous physicist from this century, was convinced that anyone who said that they understood quantum physics, what we've been seeing today, obviously hadn't thought about it enough. Because that's the point. It's so far from our understanding of everyday life that it just doesn't seem to make sense. This is what Einstein didn't like. He couldn't accept that somehow there were things that were undetermined in nature. Undetermined until you looked at them. But unfortunately, Einstein was wrong. Because very recently, 1980s, experiments were done that actually showed that that's the way the quantum world works, that objects live a double life, that two things can happen at the same time. Maybe this is quite useful. Maybe we could use this, this kind of telepathic link between quantum gloves, between quantum particles when they're separated, to do things. One of the first things that was looked at as an application of this spooky action of those distance, as Einstein called it, was actually the sending of secret messages. Now, if I want to send a secret message to somebody up there, what's your name? Danielle. Danielle. I want to send a secret message to Danielle. Well, I could walk over there and whisper it in her ear, but maybe I just can't, maybe we're a long way away. I've got to find some way of sending a secret message. So what I could do, I could take a message, I could stick it in a box, I could lock the box, I send the box to Danielle, and as long as she's got the key, she can open the box. And the secret is safe. So let's just try that. Who should we get to pass the key? Well, do you think Elio is trustworthy? Yeah. Okay, well, let's pass it to Elio and see if he can pass it to Danielle. So, Danielle, do you have the key? Here is the message. See if you could tell me what message I'm sending you. The message is hello. The message is hello, and you are right. And here is the key that we gave to Danielle. That's how she managed to decode the message. And probably no one else actually got that message. Elio got the message. How did he do that? Yes, he looked at the key, and this is the problem. Sure, you can send a secret message as long as nobody else has the key. It's like your front door. Front door is safe as long as nobody else has the key. And this is where the spookiness of quantum physics helps. Because now, instead of sending the key as it is, I'm actually going to send a quantum key. Now, that quantum key I'm going to create in the same way as we created the quantum gloves or the pair of particles. I'm actually going to create a pair of particles, stick one in the box, and put the other one in this box. Now, I don't know which of the two right or left is in each box, but I know that this one is the opposite of this one. And now, I'm going to hand this to Elio. Who is going to pass it on up to that? Oh, Danielle, have you got the key yet? Yeah. But have you opened the box? No, don't... Have you opened the box yet? No. My box is open. And that's it. Elio must have opened the box. Because Danielle hasn't, and my box is open. And that's what quantum physics gives you. Because of this spooky action at a distance. As soon as Elio tried to look at the key, it opened up my box. And he could try and be really sneaky and cover up his tracks and close the box, which he did, and pass it on to Danielle. But he can't close my box, and I know my box is open. Fiction? No, it's fact. It was done very recently with a pair of quantum particles, photons that you saw in that earlier experiment. And they were passed through an optic fiber cable alongside Lake Geneva. And they were sent off a couple of kilometers in either direction. And a secret key was shared between sender and receiver. So this is great, this quantum stuff. But there must be a drawback. And there is. It's actually hard to keep that link going. That link is really quite delicate. I need a volunteer to help me demonstrate how delicate this link can be. What's your name? Sam. Sam, could you come down please? Sam, here are our quantum particles. What I want you to do is set them spinning on the desk. There you go. Set one going. That's it. Push down. Hard. Now set this one going. And you've got to keep them both going at the same time. Doesn't that either one of them drop? OK, that's too easy. Get that one going again. Now pick this one up, because this is all too easy. I'm going to make you go and stand up there. And get it going on the top of those stairs next to the door. Come on, hurry up. You are the quantum link. Top of the stairs next to the door. That's it. Start it going. Come on. Now you better give it a good go, because you've got to get this one up to the top of those stairs. Come on, hurry up. Run, run, run. Come on, you can do it. You might be able to do it. Come on. Push. Now get going. I think that one's... It's kind of... And when you finish with that one, there's one over here that needs a bit of attention. Yeah, this is bad. OK, Sam, you've done very well. Well done. APPLAUSE Well, it's no surprise. Poor old Sam. It's hard to keep the link going for a long time. In fact, with the quantum particles, they're so small, so delicate, that anything, a bit of dust, an air molecule, can just upset them. It's almost like it can flip open the box. Now, our particles, in that case, were these spinning tops. But actually, the idea that something's spinning is really quite close to actually what goes on in an atom. Here we've got a model of an atom. Now just think of these blue rings around the outside. This is where the negative charge goes. This is where the electrons go. What I want to focus on is this red blob at the centre. This is the nucleus. This contains positive charge. And this does have a spin. And amazingly enough, there is a machine in existence, actually used in hospitals all the time, that measures the spin of atoms. It's the spin of the nucleus. And this is it. It's an MRI machine, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. And it really takes photos inside an object. Here's an object. It's an orange. I'm going to see what the inside of an orange looks like. Inside the machine. Come around here. And the machine acts like a camera. It's actually going to start to look inside the orange, because it's actually looking at the spins on the nucleus of the atoms in this orange. It actually picks up the atoms in water. In the orange. And now we see the image getting clearer and clearer, because you see the detail in the orange, without, of course, having to cut it open. That's the advantage of this type of machine, that level of detail, without ever making a cut. So while it's on the right road to looking at the spins, looking at these quantum links, it's not quite there yet. The scientists are now currently very actively looking at these types of machines to see exactly how they can look at the spin of one particle and the spin of another, and see how they relate to each other. See what's going on in these quantum link. What I want to do is just use our imagination for a moment. Because I want to imagine that we could keep these spins, these links going, this magical link between quantum particles, that when separated, still keeps them somehow talking to each other. Because there are some amazing things that one could do. One of the most amazing is teleportation. Now teleportation is exactly what you think it is. Teleportation would take me possibly from here to here, and back here again, without moving. Now I need someone to help me demonstrate teleportation. Could you come down? What's your name? Oliver. Could you stand there, please? Now, Oliver. You are in the transporter room in the Enterprise, and I'm here down on the planet with Captain Kirk. Now, this is a bit of a simple Captain Kirk. He's only got four bits in him. Now Captain Kirk actually has millions of atoms in him. But I just want to imagine there are four bits, four pieces. Now, to teleport Captain Kirk up to the transporter room, what I have to do is get these bits from here on the planet over to Oliver. But actually, it's not enough just to get the bits themselves, because we're all made of the same atoms. We've all got the same things in us. The way these atoms are put together that makes us us. So what we've got to do is we've not only got to transfer the four bits, we've got to transfer the information in these bits as well. So what we're going to do is we're actually going to use the quantum particles, the pair of quantum particles. What we're going to do is, exactly like with the gloves, we're going to separate them off, and I'm going to send one over to Oliver, and I'm going to have the other one. And what we're going to do is I'm going to replace this particle, this bit, on exactly the corresponding bit of Captain Kirk. So when my light goes out over on Oliver's, part of Captain Kirk appears. Because actually what's happened is this bit, this quantum particle, mixed with the corresponding bit of Captain Kirk. And it kind of sucked out the information, and because of this link, this link between these two particles, it transferred that information up to the transporter room. So three quarters of Captain Kirk's on the planet, and one quarter of him is in the transporter room. But we can keep this going. We now separate another quantum pair.  this on here. Now half of him's in the transporter room. There we go. Oh, nearly got. And there we have it. Captain Kirk has disappeared from the planet and reappeared on the Enterprise. Thank you, Oliver. Is that fiction? No, again, it's fact. It's been done, not with Captain Kirk, but with quantum particles. Particles have been teleported, or rather the information in them has been teleported from one point to another. But since all atoms are the same substance, they're the same, if you put the same information in the atom, and it's in another place, it's the same thing. And also notice that in creating Captain Kirk there, we destroyed the information about him here. We couldn't create a copy. So that's been done experimentally. And all this is very recent stuff. There's another possibility with this quantum, spooky action of the distance. And that relates to a computer. Now, we often think of computers doing lots of things at the same time. They're really fast. But inside any existing computer, if you look what's happening at one time in one small part of it, it's only processing a one or a zero. It's all it can do. It's all computers can do. And at any moment, in any one part of it, it's a zero or one. But in the quantum world, things live a double life. They can be a zero and a one, a left and a right. And so we have the possibility of a quantum computer. And again, that's been done in a very small scale, a computer that's been built that runs on this quantum weirdness. And it's extremely fast. In fact, it can do things. It could do calculations that no conventional computer can actually do. Just take the computer far too long. In fact, these ideas of these linkages in the quantum world and the idea of processing information, quantum information, so powerful, it's actually provoked some people to suggest that it has something to do with the brain. Now, we know that the brain can do lots of calculations. But it's surprising that there are no computers that really mimic the brain. We have very powerful computers. But none of them really show any kind of thought or consciousness. And some people have suggested that actually what's going on in the brain, inside the neurons in the brain, there are actually some quantum processes going on, something like a quantum computation. Now, this is highly speculative. But just to show you the power of this type of science. So we've seen that there's something really weird going on related to very small times. But we don't see it, particularly in our everyday world. As we saw, it's difficult to keep the spinning tops going. It's difficult to keep these linkages alive for a long time. And on our times, the times that affect us, minutes, hours, just doesn't happen. And that seems even further away from the kind of times that are involved in the universe. The universe is a really big object. And it's very old, 15 billion years old. But there is a connection, or rather there should be. And scientists are trying to find it. Because the universe is actually thought to be expanding. Now, if it's expanding as time moves on, that means that back in time, it must have come from something smaller. In fact, if we go way back to the beginning of the universe, it must have come from something very, very small. Now, this by now is a rather old idea, but we call it the Big Bang. Because it's thought that at the beginning of the universe, things start in a very quick, small area. In fact, the universe itself was very small, and it started very quickly. But very small and very quick. And it's the quantum world. So quantum physics must have been involved in the Big Bang. That is something scientists are now trying to look at. But it's still not solved. Now, something that does affect the universe and the long times and long distances involved in the universe relates to relativity, an Einstein's theory of relativity. Now, before we try and put together the very large scale effects of the universe of relativity, very small with quantum, I want to take a look at relativity. Because in the second lecture of this series, we actually set about testing Einstein's theory of relativity. Back in the second lecture, John Lavety, who's head of time at the National Physical Laboratory, put on two atomic clocks. When they started off, the two clocks were synchronized within four billionths of a second. And one of his colleagues, Setnam Sheema, actually took one on a flight to Shanghai in China. It's halfway around the world. There he is, just settling the clock down. And there's the clock relaxing. Strap safely in its seat. And here they are arriving at Shanghai. There's the Shanghai newspaper. Without actually taking off the plane, they just turned around and came back. You may have even followed this journey on our website. So let's have a look at these two clocks, which were synchronized to show exactly the same time, and which are super accurate clocks, and therefore shouldn't show any time difference. Let's see what actually occurred. Hello, John. Hi, nice to see you again. Thanks for coming back. John, which of the clocks traveled, and which of the clocks stay here? This is the one that actually you tried to Shanghai that you saw on the video clip there. Yes. And this is a reference clock that we've kept back here in London. It hasn't been anywhere. Right. And we've been monitoring it. So this one has flown. This one hasn't. Right. And presumably, we can now connect them together to see if there's some kind of time difference. You see the times agree on the front of the clocks, but you can't actually perceive the accuracy with which those seconds are taking over. So what we've got here, if you like, are electronic ticks coming out of these two clocks. I'm going to plug them in. I'll just grab this. And what we're connecting to is a special stopwatch. But instead of counting up in seconds or hundreds of seconds, this is counting up in billions of a second. And if you have a look on the computer over here, you can actually see what that difference is. So there it is. From four billionths of a second, the difference between the two clocks is now more than 60 billionths of a second. So this clock has actually experienced a distortion of time. Indeed. It's not jet lagged. It's a real distortion of time. It's a time warp. Yes. Tell us what that time warp's made up of. OK. Well, there's really two factors we have to consider. One is, if you like, the speed of the aircraft, the speed that this clock was traveling out compared to the one that was left behind. And what we calculate from that is that you'd see a difference of something like 25 billions of a second that this would be younger. In fact, what we're seeing, because it's a positive number, this clock is older. And the other factor to consider is gravity. And we do the calculations for the height of the aircraft and the reduced gravity environment there. And that would predict you'd see something like 85 nanoseconds aging for this clock. So the speed makes it younger. The gravity makes it older. And overall, gravity wins out. We're seeing a difference of something like 60 nanoseconds between the two clocks. And we can tie that down completely to relativity. So Einstein was right. And thank you, John. OK. Yeah. APPLAUSE So the clock experienced a time warp. And as John said, part of that time warp was due to the fact that the clock was actually moving through space. If you move through space, you distort time. Time and space are linked. We're not used to this. Normally, we walk around, go on a bus, whatever. And we expect the time to be unaffected. Time just ticks on whether you're sitting down on a bus. But that's not what Einstein said. He said they're linked. We can actually have a look at what the clock would have seen. Because if its time was distorted, if it had been able to look out the window, it would have seen a bit of space distorted. And here we have, first of all, an image of what this is a simulation based on the calculations resulting from Einstein's equations of relativity. This will be the flight in at normal jet airliner speeds. Coming into Shanghai. I hope it wasn't that close to the buildings. But now we're going to see what would have happened if the jet had been able to get closer to the speed of light. Because in this case, there's a distortion. There's a distortion of space. In fact, it's so dramatic that the backs of the buildings can be seen at the same time as the fronts of the buildings. So our clock traveled through time. But John mentioned something else. And that is that gravity has an effect on time. And in order for us to answer the problem of is time travel possible, we have to understand that effect. In fact, we have to understand a little bit more about spacetime itself. And that's what we're going to do. We're going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of spacetime itself. Now, normally we think of space and time as uncoupled. It doesn't matter how you move through space. It doesn't affect time. But what we could do is imagine where we are in space at different times. And for example, take a photo of it and build up photos at successive times. Over here, we've got a bit of apparatus that kind of does that. If we imagine that we start off from this point in space, and this is time coming up along this red line, then as we move around in space at successive times, time slices, we're at different points. Now, nothing can travel faster than the speed of light. So we have to understand how light moves through spacetime. So if we imagine now, instead of this light here being one of us, it's actually a source of light that's going to send out ripples, very much like the ripples on the water. These ripples are going to spread out in time. But instead of just watching a picture of them on the pond, we're actually going to take successive photos of them at later and later times and build up the picture. And this is what we can see here. You see the ripples actually spreading out as time moves on. This is a spacetime diagram. And in fact, what we have here, I think you could see, is the beginning of a cone shape. We've only shown a few times here. But if we took a lot of times and put the rings for the ripples going out and out, now you get a cone. Now, the important point is that none of us can travel fast and speed of light. Nothing can travel fast and speed of light. So any object starting off at the bottom here must stay within this cone. Over here, we've got the same object. It's just that the timeline has been taken to be a bit longer. We have the same cone here. Now remember, everything's got to stay inside the cone. Now, if I'm going to time travel, I need to go back to the same point in space, but in an earlier time. So I need to be able to go from this point in space, which is represented by the red line. It's all at the same point in space. At that time, sometime say two hours in advance in the future, but come back to an earlier moment in time, I need to do this. Looks innocent enough, but look what I've done. I've gone outside of this cone. So it seems like to travel through time, I need to go faster than the speed of light, and that can't happen. But Einstein told us about the effects of gravity as well on time, and that was the second effect that affected our clock, and that's what we want to look at now. Now, probably a lot of you have heard the story of Newton. Looking at the apple, saw it fall, came up with the idea of force of gravity. But what is gravity? What's the force of gravity? I mean, why should there be a force of gravity? Einstein turned around and reinterpreted that result. He said that actually what happens is any object, the sun, a planet, a black hole, you and I, distort space time around us. Now, here we have, just to keep things simple, a 2D sheet, two-dimensional sheet, which is meant to be just a bit of space. It's like a flat table. Now, what Einstein said to us is a mass, like a planet, like us, actually cause a distortion of space around us. But since space and time are linked, he's actually saying there's a distortion of space and time, of space time. How does that understand, help us understand, the falling apple? Well, that planet, if that mass wasn't there, an apple would just sit where it is in space. It wouldn't move around. But the apple grows on trees, on planets, on the earth. And what happens is when the apple sits in a bit of space near the earth, on the tree, and it falls off, it falls down towards the earth because of this distortion of space time. And so that is what Einstein said is gravity. But it's not just apples. Everything falls to a heavier object. In fact, even though light is quite a fast, which is the fastest thing in the universe, light will also be pulled towards a heavier object. This will be a light beam. Instead of going in a straight path, it's being bent towards this. So we can bend light with gravity. But to travel through time, that's what we need to do. We need to bend this light cone over so that this red line never actually leaves the cone. And so this is the key. You've got to use heavy objects, large masses, to be able to travel through time. Now, we don't exactly know what arrangement of masses, scientists are trying to work out what arrangement of masses would let you do exactly this. But I'm going to give you an idea of what could do it. I said masses could actually distort space and space time. In fact, the solutions of Einstein's equations actually come in pairs. They can come in pairs. And they cause two dents in space time. I'm just going to show you what that looks like. Now, this is space time. So if we want to go from one point in time back to another point in time, we actually have to get, say, from here over to here. Now, if I ask you what the shortest route is, well, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 units. Quite a long way. I'm going to show you that our notions of distances can be quite wrong when we deal with space time. Here's a map of the world. It's a flat sheet, two dimensional. If I ask you what the distance is between the United States and Russia, well, on this map, they're quite far apart. But the world is a globe. It's a sphere. And when we look on this globe, here's the United States. Here's Russia. But they're actually quite close. So the idea of a shortest distance for three dimensional object, like the world, cannot be seen from a two dimensional object like a flat map. It's exactly the same thing with space time. We've got no notion of what space time really looks like, because it involves the three dimensions of space that make all of us up, give us some volume. And it's got time. That's four dimensions. And funny things can happen. In fact, I could give you an idea of what can happen. In the following, if we can distort this dent here, more and more down in the third dimension, you can actually see that it's almost like they're beginning to be pulled together underneath the sheet. And this is it. This is the key. This may give us a sense of what's going on. This is the sheet. And this is it. This is the key. This may give us a shortcut in space time. Now, this is two dimensional. But just to give you an idea what that shortcut might look like, it would be something like this. You can imagine just under the sheet, there's a hole to enter and a hole to come out. Looks like only a worm could go through this. In fact, that's what it's called. It's called a wormhole. And there's nothing in the laws of physics that says wormholes can't exist. Just haven't found any. So time travel seems possible. Well, with the help of Ilya and the Royal Institution, anything's possible. And here, we have a wormhole. So let's see what happens when I go into it. I found myself. And that's the problem. That is the argument put up against time travel. It's possible according to the equations. But it's not possible because of logic. Because maybe I tell myself, well, don't study physics, study music. I don't give the Royal Institution Christmas lectures. So how could I have found the wormhole? So how could I have gone back and found myself? Quantum physics helps. Quantum physics helps. Because just as we saw, the particle can have two lives. It's a double life. So it's thought that quantum physics helps out of this paradox. Because when you go back, there are two possibilities. I meet myself, or I happen to miss myself in the corridor. And the history from which I went is the one where I happen to miss myself. Because the universe divides. Quantum world, there can be many universes. They're dividing all the time. Every time a decision has to be made at the quantum level. So run along you or me. Happy birthday, mommy. Um... But what about finding these wormholes? Well, that's where quantum physics helps again. Because although Einstein thought the spacetime was very smooth and flat, reasonably flat, like the sheet, the rubber sheet, quantum physics looks at the very small, the very tiny. And just like, if you imagine, looking down on the surface of the sea, which looks very smooth when you're a long way above. When you get down really into the surface, it's full of bubbles and froth and foam. It's hard to actually say where that surface is. It's not very well defined. And in the bubbles, there can be holes appear. And those holes may even be connected. And they give you natural wormholes. In fact, there may be natural wormholes filling this room, which you don't know. Well, we started off these lectures with a definition for time. We said that time is the period in which events happen. But we've seen that this is actually quite complicated. Because there are events in the quantum world. Which we can't really tell where they are and when they are. There's a kind of undetermined part of nature. And as to when things happen, well, we've seen on the large scale world of the universe, and Einstein's dear relativity, that when something happens, depends on what you're doing, whether you're moving or not, like our clock. And then we've also seen that in our own world, in our own time, that actually we're the ones that perceive some kind of direction of time. And so somehow the process by which we perceive that is also important. Now, quite how all these connect together. We just don't know. That's for the future. In fact, that's for all of you. Thank you. you you you