 okay this is gonna be the first time that I actually complete a vlog because with the gopher so easy look at this So we're in Phoenix We missed our connecting flight. Yes. Yeah, we did to work with Santa Ana We're going to Santa Ana or Phoenix. Yeah, so now We're just making our way over up there a five-hour layover in Phoenix to meet up with our friends in Santa Ana and start our trip Yeah I'm vlogging You What You think This three days is like vacation So today we have a 10-hour drive Which I'm interested to see how that goes for me because I can barely do 10 hours in a car I get really impatient. So we'll see. I mean, maybe this is like more engaging with a road and whatnot But we'll see we'll see how I hold up. I keep you guys Sean give me a rundown of the bike Well, we have two bikes you're gonna be on our new chieftain, okay Which is our old air-cooled motor but our full touring bagger and then these guys are gonna be on our Challenger This is our new liquid cooled bagger, which is fastest shit How fast? Like there's nothing in my five-year plan that involves a fucking motorcycle wreck helping What you doing No days off never back down Pain is weakness leaving the body If you ain't first your last For reference we just did an 11 hour motorcycle ride. We're all smoked 10 11 p.m She's still going Yeah, that's annoying I'll be up till 5 a.m We're going boss we are going Little iron a grande for a ride He lives in store Rihanna grande in his ride I don't have a variety of things that's biker music y'all. He's just his face. He's like a fuck When you actually only have porn Was more mad because I was gonna surprise you all as we left my blanket as loud as possible You guys missed it we're going to moderate today. We're gonna ride through Big Sur ride through Central California wine country We're gonna check out Carmel Valley and Monterey and go see some big treats Sighted hell yeah, I'm excited dude riding motorcycles with my friends. Yeah, there's nothing better than this You Good morning guys. We're just a bunch of fucking amateurs They're dwindling quick All we know is sets and reps You were just like you know what the stereo type can't be true not all meat heads Nah, uh, listen, top of their field, they have to be intelligent. I'm a doctor. Oh man, I have a general studies degree, I've never claimed to be smart. Hey, hey, doing great. We're doing fucking great, Canada. So let's hear the key story. Okay, so... Yeah, how did you lose your key on the highway? I'll explain. So, uh, I was behind Steffy. He just gave it up. I see Steffy's phone go flying down the thing. So I'm like, oh fuck, I pull over, stop. I run back, it's like half a mile back. Yeah, you look like a cinder block. You look like a cinder block trying to run. Explain. The impersonation. Huh? The impersonation, okay. I'm very happy about that. I'll be a booster, alright? Like his quad's, like, it was only knee movement. His quad never had any, like, backside motion. I don't know how to run, like, just... Are you running like you're trying not to shit your pants? Like that, right? Only bend. High knees. Okay, so? Um, yeah, so anyway, I'll run all the way back there, sprint all the way back, so I'm trying not to hold up the group. Right. Uh, get there. I put the... Success. Yeah, this is going great. Put the phone in the little compartment, right? Yeah, right. The whatever. The mini glove box thing. Yeah. Uh, catch up to Steffy. Okay. Pull over, give it to her, but I have to pop open the thing. Pop open the thing. As I pull it out, he comes out with it, somehow bounces onto the road, and then a car goes... Immediately over it. Right over it. One second later. Now this is what's left of it. Just the manual key, which only opens the... I don't do this. Fuck, it's sick. Bailey's calling the tow truck, which means we're riding two up on somebody's bike. You want to hold on the back of me? Hold on. Steffy will get on the back of you in the bike, right? That seems like the manual. Is it? And why is that? Huh? I like to put a lot of Steffy here. Why is that, Matt? Body weight proportions. You know what, you want to hold me around? You fucking hold me. You can't even stand the bike up with just you on it. Oh, yeah? You're going to do it in the other back? Yeah. Says the guy who just tipped over. Right. Oh, Roadster! You're not a worldwide... You know what, for the first crash... I got the least user error of everyone, alright? Yeah, except your bike doesn't work anymore. I know. Loser! You're going to be on the back of my bike, you just give me back tickles while we ride. You will be the two happiest campers. That was such a cool... Your girls get the side part of your skin. We went to Vegas one year for like, inner bike when I had my bike shop. Like a fucking man. And instead of getting a rental car to get around, we had like six of us and we talked when we were shooting and drinking at something. Oh yeah? Yeah. So we all had no beds? That's right. Uh oh. Oh fuck. I think we're in trouble. I hope we have to fight like a cougar or something. You have a knife? Like an old lady for it. Alright. No, like a... A foxy old lady? I'm into it. She's just overly aggressive with puns and she's like, I like to party. And then her tits out in the hometown. Like, man, hit the brakes! She's just overly aggressive with puns. We've arrived at our destination after a super long day, long and chaotic day where literally nothing went as planned but life still rips my babies. It is day three. Last and final day of our road trip adventure and honestly I'm excited it's coming to an end. So tired. So tired. How are you guys feeling? Good. Great dude. A little stiff? A little stiff this morning when I got up. Yeah? I'm ready to rip. Which body part? Just low hip and back. Low hip and back? Yeah. Pure groin for me. What's low hip? You know, the area lower than my hip but it's not quite leg. I've never heard that being this good. All my problems are like internal. They're all like in a hip socket but tucked into a place that they can't seem to find on normal anatomy charts. You're on a roll with language today. Alright Sean, run us through where we're going to today. Today is our last day of the trip. We're going to ride the entire coastline from Monterey to Los Angeles. Big Sur, Morro Bay, back to San Luis. Yeah, we're just going to get some hundred miles of just windy roads overlooking the most beautiful she had in the entire world. Music playing. We've arrived at what it seems to be our last spot. Stopped spot. I hate that I'm thinking that I want it to be over because it's so awesome but I'm so tired. So, yeah now. But I'm ready to be home. What did you say about spreading yourself as thin as possible? After being on the bike all day, like I just want to spread all of my muscles and flesh as thin as possible across the thing. Music playing. I'm proud of myself. I committed to this blog and I did it. Right. Trips over. How are you doing? How's your body? My body's fine. I went the entire trip without a sunburn and then yesterday I just got out the sunscreen in my face and I don't have a face mask. I was wearing sunglasses so got a little face burn. Better than that, I'm good. Nice. I feel pretty okay. Except for my back cell over the sore. Back to the jacked up. Yeah. For you, no matter the size of the bike, you're always going to have to lean more forward than everybody else because you're so little. Yeah. So that's just going to put more on your back for sure. Yeah. I am a good, good to be a gangster. Music playing.