! In today, I'm going to train with Ivana. Yeah, she's pretty cool. She trains really hard. I asked her if I could train with her before I left, and she said yes. I started competing in 2012, but I was in college, in figure. I ate spinach for every meal because I was like, yes, I get ready for a bodybuilding competition. I weighed 104 pounds on stage. I won my class, and then like, I had no idea what was going on, and then I competed at one more show and was Miss Iowa, and then I was like, okay, everyone's like, you got to go to nationals. Well, I had no idea what that was. I ended up going pro. How do you balance what movements you do heavy and what movements you do light for volume? Sure. It really depends on what I need to work on. I do a lot of pull-ups. A lot of pull-ups. It just really depends on the day, but I'm always lifting heavy every single set. We're not going to do any set and not with heavy. Unless we're doing a super set and that secondary movement will be a little bit lighter. But that's it. I am a little old-fashioned, for sure. Good. Good. Breathe. Good. Boom. Yep. Yep. Go. Yep. Push. Come on. Push, push, push, push, push, push, push. One more. Come on. All you need to push, push, push. Good. How much did you assist me? How much did you assist me after what rep? Did I do at least one by myself? Yeah, okay. Like five by yourself, for sure. I'm going to assist you. I always say, please spot me in the hole, which is your weakest point in the movement. It's what I call the fucking hole. You spot me in that and I'm good. Let's both just do one set first so we can kind of know where we're going to wait for 15 reps. And then what we'll do is do 15 reps, take 15 breaths, 15 reps, 15 breaths, 15 reps, and then that's it. We're done. Okay? Figure. I truly believe it is one of the hardest female categories to compete in. Every category is hard in its own way, okay? But when I say that, I talk about the judging. Everything is straight off, okay? There's no hiding flaws. We're in wellness, in bikini, in women's disease. You can figure, they can choose your poses and you can tweak them in any way you want. With that being said, that is, I think, is the hardest thing about figure. So they're looking at this beautiful cemetery at the shoulders. Everything's tying in. So I'll show you later when you pose. Everything's in edge. Okay. So I got 10 there. Holy moly. So do you speak another language? No. You do? Okay. You? Um, my mom is Serbian and my dad is Croatian, so I speak both of the very similar languages. How do you say what's up my babies in Serbian? Um... Kaku se moja ženet. You're going to have to say that so play the video because that's what we call our audience. Oh my gosh. Okay, perfect. Or kaku se moja bebe. All right. Have fun. Three sets of ten. Go ahead. You're 15. 15? Okay. One. Yes. Two. Three. Four. Five. You have strong little forearm fat for sure. Okay, I love it. Almost like I hate forearm fat. They're so cute. Good. Keep going. Push. Yes. Yes. Keep going. Give me two more. That was 15. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Five. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You're good. Come on. Take out. Relax. You see like your like paralyzing habit? Yeah. As soon as it gets hard you like start jumping. Heavy. You're like just start looking for ways to do it. You put your feet back your chest up. I know. You start to put your hips whatever to get them to this thing moving. I want you to stay completely stationary. It's funny though because I can see your like body just like nothing in your face but your He's like, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna do this. Push, two more. One, yes, good. Relax. Whoa, they're poking through. Dude, I look like a sopping wet noodle. Straight up. That's why I wore shirts. I'm gonna drink with these two, like that. I'm gonna just show my quets, cause like that's the only thing that doesn't need to be pumped to like. Seriously, she's up here talking about your floor. I'm like, I can't take my eyes off. Three more. Yep. Yep, one more. Good. Nice, that. Yo, I was gonna say that the light at the shim totally sucked, but I think it's just that I'm a fucking dough, because she looks great. You know what I mean? Like, I was just complaining about the light, but it's not the light, it's me. It's not you, it's me. I was wondering like, how much did your body's luxury during like all the time I've been on TV? In season. Yeah, almost, so. In terms of body weight. Like 10 pounds. 10 pounds? 10 to 12 pounds is what is what is healthy and standard. To where you have enough fat tissue in your body to be building good size, to be able to be pulling heavier weight in whatever you need to be doing, you know, in protecting your joints, et cetera. But you know, you shouldn't be gaining 20 pounds. Right. You know, I think that's a really. I think that's how many things that a lot of people make. Oh, 99 people who look like completely different in out of season that look and doughy and. Carol, I'll tell you why. It's because they don't have someone to build up their metabolism to sustain all this high amount of food during prep. So instead, these coaches just starve their athletes, and when they starve their athletes, what happens? The show's over, they just eat their face off, and they're not used to doing that. It's almost subconscious too, like you've been eating like so little and then you can't enjoy your hunger. Pork is too pained, which is not fair, because it's a great sport, we have such a great community, but it's just the fact that people lose their minds of how can you not, especially as a woman. You know, you look at yourself every freaking day, and you're like, how do you guys get to take it? Three, yep. Four. Third. Third. I can eat you. Relax. On the weight, come on. You got it. Yep. Third. Fourth. Yep. Nice. Three. Last one. I got you. Yep. Good, you got it. You're doing bicep growth. What? You were doing bicep growth. I think I was like, was I really weak on that second set? You know that heavier set we did? It's like, I think I was weak because I was spotting you guys, and then I was like, I don't think I had enough rest in between. Okay, how was the weight? Okay, let's sit. I usually stand, let's sit, I've stood my probably the last four years, and I realized when I'm hitting the 150s, like when I'm going like this, it's inevitable not to be attacking your low back here, and it's compressing your spine. If you can only sit, you can really just focus solely on the rear deck. So, one. Nice. I'm a huge different guy, that's a lot better. Two. Yep, and you don't even have to go back as far. Right there, stop. Good. Keep the tension right here. Here they are, here they are. Boom. Nice. Yep. All right, you're hitting 110. Boom. What was the case you gave me? Just like the setup on the machine, so it's like being really close to a pad, first thing, extending your arms, bending them and flaring them up a little bit, and then just going out, ghosting up instead of like trying to contract like your upper back to squeeze. Yep. So, it was a little higher on the hips, so you can always take advantage of essentially the new waist. Like, eventually, like when I'm on stage, I'll go like this. I'll stand in the typos like this. You know, my waist is smaller, I can still go like this, maybe it's a little smaller. Especially if you grab too low, you just see that? Yeah, you control it, exactly. So, you're here, grabbing with one hand, ladies quarter turn. Ladies quarter turn, nice, caps foot. Ladies quarter turn. Taking breaths in between. Yep, not forgetting about that back foot. Ladies, take the front. Exactly. And like your heels, we pivot your feet a little bit, I hold you back the whole time. Yep, yep, exactly. Stop, I know. Imagine when you're like definitely, I was telling about the Chicago Pro earlier, she goes like, she's floating, I'm like. Okay, so figure is remember, I told you everything's dead on, still quarter poses like that, ladies quarter turn. And you're gonna go from the front to the side, back to the side. And you're fucking gonna go over the last. You put your arms in. Cause you're a pixel, relax. All I want you to do is go like this, watch. Okay, see how it's like, look at my boobs. But you're gonna go from the front. Ladies quarter turn. Okay, here's the back pose. You're gonna do the same pose, you can't do it together, you set your boobs here. I mean you're all, obviously we do this on one, but just explaining it. You set your glutes, and then you push your glutes, and then you rise up your chest. But that will be your arm, your other leg. Ladies quarter turn. Face front. So you keep your palms up, the goalie just, and then go. Okay, that's a start. Okay, so that's the big pose. Now we just need to bring everything we have here forward. Okay, see there's your legs. Okay, don't let your arms control your legs, your legs control your arms, okay? There we go. Yep, stay right there. Perfect. She's gonna be like, it's gonna be fabulous. How am I gonna be fabulous? No, you said? Then you're gonna say, forget about wellness. I thought you said she's gonna be freaking fabulous. I got excited. Yeah, and that too. Okay.