 Welcome to part two of this series. Today I'm going to teach a bodybuilder and an arm wrestler how to sumo deadlift. They're going to do great. They're athletes. Both of them are super athletic. So the thing with sumo deadlift is all proportions and leverage. For someone like you, you have long femurs and a short torso, which puts you in a weird position. Like, it doesn't mean that you're not going to be good at it. You might, but you're not going to look like me because you have very different proportions. So when you're here, like your butt is so far away from the bar, like you're almost like here. So, but ultimately the goal, like what I ideally would love to see someone doing this in a deadlift is to find a position where your hips can be as close to the bar as possible. So for me, it's here. Like, look, when I come down, I'm like right here. Like this would be an ideal position. Okay. See? Whereas if you're like here, you're here. Okay. Did you pull 400 like that? No. Okay. Yeah, I start changing at 315. I know. About, yeah. Your thing. You know, she's going to like wedge your hips to the bar. It's like a more close type of idea. It's like a C-song. So you love sumo. You essentially need to use your, the back of your body, so your butt and your legs against the bar. As if it's not as you saw, as if it's a jack. Okay. You put it under the car. So your butt is like the handle of the jack. Okay. And your hands are like wires that are just like attached to the bar. So when the jack goes down, the chest goes up. So good. That looks so good. Really? Yeah. Really good. Thank you. Whoever did conditionally just trained a different way or did you just 100% sumo as you say? I think I made the mistake of thinking that if I got stronger and more natural, I was going to translate into my sumo. Because you were working on muscles that are weaker or whatever. But honestly, that messed me up at the time. But I think the mistake I made was more like, I should have been practicing both, like in the same block. Maybe doing sumo just for technique like 6 to 10 reps and then conventional like pushing the lower reps for strength. But I totally like took sumo delips out of my program. So I ended up messing myself up. Yeah. Good job. Gotcha. You give yourself a position like there. I love how gentle you put it down each rep. Is that a thing? Or like that's how you train? No, it's more like a technique to like find your positions. Since I haven't done it in a long time, that's helpful for me. It gives me like a cue to where my body needs to be. No, it looks great. Yeah, that's why I'm asking. Other people just drop it and then start over. I find myself somewhere in the middle, but not that gentle. Yeah, go 25 because I think that would be a good jump for Kristin too. And since you haven't been training a ton, those small jumps are good for you too. So when is it simple to start using a belt in your opinion? Whenever you feel like you're doing it. Really? Like this, no, like roll in your household and not in the kitchen. That's the first pull? Yeah. Yeah. You're still surprising the barbell. Surprising it? Oh, surprisingly. Okay, I'm not taking out that tension yet. Exactly. Okay, because I feel like I might get to that point where if I take out that tension, I don't know, something makes me feel like I can't get it up. Maybe that's in my mind. How long do you think some of my bars will leave the floor? Like even at light weight? Like it takes me, I go solid two, three seconds where the bar actually starts moving. Okay. And in some cases, 10 seconds. That's impressive. I feel like I give it like two, three seconds and if it doesn't come up, I get pissed and you stop. You know, that's impressive. Yeah, that's amazing. Oh, thank you. Let's go Sarah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no more, no more, no more. I feel like you keep your head a lot closer. I don't know why, like, I mean, you guys do very well with that. I really want to like look at the sky. I was talking squat and deadlift to just keep on neutral. I don't know if it's true, but if your spine and your neck bone is, you know, like the same. If you do this and you lower back both of your legs. Yeah, yeah, it's just good. Yeah. Yeah. The other legs look great, so now you have to just like nail down all those details. So, remember your stance? So you're kind of like a little bit inside your wings, right? That's good. Yes. That's good. Two fingers on the gnarling on each hand. That's it. So you're sitting down way too much. Okay. I don't want to feel a little bit here. Yeah, there. And then start generating tension slowly instead of like yanking the bar. You're trying to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's me pulling it with a good amount of what I had. Yeah. And did it seem like that was correct? Yeah. I mean, you obviously have some stuff to work on. Yeah. Oh, for sure. Yeah. But I mean, it's a great starting point. It's a great starting point. You just have to rewire your brain for a new movement pattern. Correct. And if you have been practicing it that way, now you're going to have to do almost like double the amount of repetitions the right way to get it right. Okay. So the mistake that most people make is that they drop down the weight way too much to try to fix a particular technique pattern that they're doing wrong. And the reason why that's a mistake is because anyone can look good at lifting at 50%, but when it comes to strength, it's like, it's your, obviously your strength, but it's also your ability to maintain positions, which is neurologically regulated, right? Your movement patterns are ingrained in your brain. And so you can look great at 50%, 60%, 70% and like absolute shit at 90% and 100%. So usually the way that you train to improve your technique is going to something that's challenging, but not impossible to overcome. So like say 80%, 85% of your one rep max in practicing singles, like six, eight singles. So doing it once, walk away. Yeah. And then you rest for two minutes again, walk away until you feel like, you know, you're really nailing down that weight. And then maybe the following week you increase a little bit and do the same thing. Okay. And you can also practice with like lower percentages, which is also necessary to build volume and like really wire that kind of movement pattern. It's repetition, right? Like, like anything, like if you want to get better at this and it's like doing this a million times, but you got to do it right. It's not just practice. It's like practicing in the right way. Come on. Come on. It came up though, but you see, I could not pull. That's three, 95. No. He's three, 95. Three, 65. No. There are 45 pounds and there's three 45 plus three 15 plus 50, 13 plus 50. Look how clear we are. I'm sorry. I can't do is I want you to do a two second pause one inch off the ground. Like literally this far off the ground and hold it there for one, two, and then finish. One, two. One, two. Okay. One, two. Yep. How often during a week would you do a technique like that, that one pause up one inch thing? So that would be, you know, you could either do it after your heavy deadlift day or it could be an accessory deadlift day. So if you're, if you're first learning how to do a movement, I always recommend that you increase the frequency of the lift at a lower intensity. So you could deadlift three times a week if you wanted, just like keeping the intensity really low and practicing the technique and having one day a week where you push for like a five rep max or a three rep max for the day. And that way you get the best of both worlds. You get the frequent practice and then you also get the practice at high intensity. But again, it all depends on like what each person needs to work on, right? What's the answer? What do you want, man? You got to close out. I hate outros. Kind of. And okay, well, that was it for today. Taught them how to deadlift. They did amazingly. Sarah absolutely crushed it. Sarah, you have like 450 in you. Like not today, but you have 450 in you for sure. No, not today. But it was only because we were in a boat for 10 hours yesterday, dehydrating the shit out of ourselves. Yeah. Yo, I was still moving this morning. Like this. From the water? Yeah, I was still like this. I'm sorry. Well, I have to keep my patch on. Why? I kept mine on. Yeah, I was like, fuck no. Still dizzy. And really interesting. I mean, you both are super athletic and have a bright future in front of you. Still have a lot to learn. Some of that lift. I don't know. Anyway, hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you really like the video, hit the like button. If you really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really like this video. Subscribe to the channel. Hey, peace out my baby. Me too? Yup. Peace out my babies. That was so sad. Peace out my babies. Don't put that in. Bye.