 what's going on everyone? Today we're gonna clear up some misconceptions regarding strength and hypertrophy. There seems to be a lot of misunderstanding regarding whether you need to lift really heavy weights in order to get bigger muscles, or if you can lift light weights and still get big muscles. The truth is, the answer lies somewhere in between, and that's what we're gonna be exploring today. So which comes first? Strength or hypertrophy? It's like the question of the chicken or the egg. This question has plagued bro scientists for ages. A lot of people try to improve their way they look by gaining muscle and losing fat, but not everyone appreciates the role that strength plays in that equation. So, what exactly? Let's talk about that. Hypertrophy is muscle growth in response to working against forces that we're not used to. In order to stimulate this, we need to be strong enough to challenge the working muscle. Specifically, those large fibers that are only recruited when high forces are required. We find those high forces with relatively heavy weights, or when fatigue has exhausted all of the other smaller fibers. So where does strength come in? We need to build strength in order to reach those large fibers that grow in response to training. That's why beginners can see rapid strength development without much hypertrophy in the first few weeks of training. As a muscle adapts, force production improves, you need to keep using heavier and heavier weights over time. You can't totally separate strength from hypertrophy since we need more force over time in order to continue stimulating muscle growth. So in turn, hypertrophy augments strength since a bigger muscle has the potential to become a stronger muscle. The take-home message is that if you're training to lose fat and build muscle but you don't emphasize strength development, you're missing an important piece of the body composition puzzle. I hope this clears it up and you got something from it. As always, if you have any questions, drop them down below and see you guys next time. Bye!