 doesn't think about bodybuilding. It's that you have to embrace that pain and that burn, you know? But that your initial reaction is you want to stop, but actually in bodybuilding that's where you have to keep going. So the plan is for the next little while. Two leg workouts a day, two upper body workouts a week, sorry, a day. Two lower body workouts a week, two upper body workouts a week, two or three boxing sessions a week. That's the plan. Oh, I'm training. Yeah, we're getting in shape, my babies. Mommy's coming back, daddy's coming back. You hear me? You weren't there the day that I filmed with Dylan Armbrest, the owner of Armbrestim. We did a leg workout, so I'm going to take a bunch of stuff that we did that day and do them today. It was an epic session. It was so good. So we started with 50. What? Just one half? Okay. You know, that's my brother. They burn, my babies. Burn is real. You have to embrace that pain and that burn, you know, but that your initial reaction is you want to stop, but actually in bodybuilding that's where you have to keep going. Yeah. So it's interesting. It's like a pain tolerance thing really, like how much discomfort can you tolerate? Yeah. Where do you think you lay on that? Um, I mean, I think it's, it's, there's a learning curve. I think I'm, I'm getting better. I'm getting to like understand when I need to continue pushing and when I need to like take a step back because it's very different from strength training. And that's, that's what I'm struggling with the most right now. It's like, am I training hard enough? Am I pushing myself hard enough? How many sets do I need to be doing? Should I do an extra set? Should I do five, six, seven sets? Should I put the weight up, down, you know, because the intensity and the feel is a lot different from strength training, which is what I've been doing for eight years. Yeah. Wait. No, you gotta think of something. Let it pump you. You were going to pump it, but my pump it. All right, so, so, so, so, so. Oh, my God. Maybe they started it, but never. I'm perfect. Now everyone has to wear a mask. You think y'all make one of these? How do you feel now? How do you feel? We started, we started it. Elevation mask. Elevation mask work. We should start on the bridge and carry you around that. That's what's interesting about a lot of, in the PT world, there's so much debate around being able to isolate certain body parts, certain muscle groups that are all innervated by the same nerve. So like there's this huge controversy around the quad. They're all innervated by the femoral nerve. And I remember a while ago, I made a post about how to target the VMO and it was a series of exercises and I got slammed, gunked by the PT community because they're like, no, you can't isolate the VMO. The truth is, there's more to just nerves and muscles when it comes to the human body and growing a body part. Things like muscle fiber alignment. It's like the line of pull where those fibers are oriented. How do they attach in your body? Like what are your proportions? This is the other thing that I picked up from like other bodybuilders, especially I think like the OGs. More like, you know, the older guys, Ben and Dylan, are really beginning to stretching. Flexibility training with bodybuilding, like for the purpose of both being able to grow the muscle part and also for longevity. You know, I think, honestly, like flexibility training within the art community has become so not taboo. What's what I'm looking for? Like, it's like embarrassing to do yoga or stretch or whatnot. Like it's seen as like, I don't know, like a sissy thing to do. But it's necessary. Trust me, like I neglected it for so long and then I started feeling like a tin can. What you needed for powerlifting? You need a certain amount of mobility, but like even then, you know, you just become mobile in the position, say you're training and then what about the rest of the stuff? Like literally just like something as simple as putting your shoes on, you start being unable to do. That's kind of lame. When are you ever like this? Look at this flexibility. Yes, this is a flex. You're a yoga master. This is a flex. Like I know people are watching you right now and are being like, damn, I wish I could fucking do that. Dude, I know I like I need to control it more to get more out of it, but it's fucked up. Like I know for sure that I should have been doing much slower reps. Are you still working with Ben? Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, I don't have a plan yet. He's waiting for me to go up to Tampa so he can see me for a full week. Oh, okay. And then like figure out what I need. That's the thing with bodybuilding. It's like it needs to be specific to what the person needs. If you're going to get judged, if you want to just grow, like it doesn't really matter, but because bodybuilding is all about proportions, it does matter, right? Like what do I need more? Do I need to grow my the sides of my glutes? Do I need to grow my BMO? Do I need a more like tapered waist and bigger shoulders? It depends, right? And that's what the plan is going to account for. It's like all proportions. Oh, you need to grow your lats more. You need to learn how to activate them. You need to. Like out of curiosity, because you're a PC and shit, could that be bad for your health? Like let's say like you grow a muscle bigger than the other and like the light another will get smaller or whatever. I mean, look, anything that you're doing in extremes, like anything you do competitively, it's not going to be health. Yeah, that's true. You know, but like in terms of muscular imbalances and that shit, no, no, I don't think so. No, I really don't think so. If anything's good, dude, I, my back feels the best as I've ever felt. Yeah. Yeah, it's almost like, remember what I was telling you about sensitizing your body, like if you have a chronic pain, you need to progressively expose rated exposure. You need to progressively expose yourself to the painful movement or stimulus in order to convince your brain that it's safe, that it's not being threatened. And so it's almost like, dude, it sounds cheesy, but it takes courage to be able to push past that point. So my last body but leg, leg session, we squat it. And after I squatted a plate for 10, my back was bugging me a lot. And I was like, you know what, like if my back is actually bugged, what am I going to bug it up more? You know what, I don't care. So I slapped another plate and did 10 reps and it hurt like, motherfucker. And then after that, it felt fine. Really? Yeah. And since then, it's felt really good. How do you feel? How do you feel? Like 100 pounds. Like what? You know what? 100 pounds. On each side. Why? Why? So, three exhausted sets. Good for me at this point because you know, I'm a part of this. It's hard for me to remove my ego and not lift heavy. But how long have we been here? Like we've been doing like for an hour and a half. About an hour? Like one of the seconds, the last exercise of the day. So no matter how much will, I have to put three plates on the bars. It's just not going to happen. I've been smashing my legs for an hour and a half. So three exhausted sets are a good way for you to modulate the load. Make sure you're not pushing. You're not pushing that too high, but you're exerting yourself and demanding a lot of yourself. Still like pushing the intensity high, but relative to what you're capable of after doing all of that. So one full round is there and back with weights and then there and back without weights. That's one round. Okay. Three. She still doesn't know. All right. Great workout brought to you by Domenna Arm Brass. I copied our entire section because I felt like I needed to be documented. It was such a good workout. Don't do it if you're a coward. That's all I have to say. You know, if you're a coward, don't even try to do it because you're not going to make it. Anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed this workout. They would have shot. Try this out. Tag me if you do and Valentina. And if you really liked this video, hit the like button. If you really really really really really really really really really really really really like this video, subscribe to this channel. Okay, thank you guys for watching. I'll catch you guys next time. Peace.