 Yo, check this one out. It's pretty cool. Okay, sorry, it's a sorry duck. She just wanna cut up in the car, told her to start it up. I don't wanna see it from your eyes unless it's car to yet. Ran into my old chick, she said you ain't playing fair. Playing fair, playing fair. Nah, I ain't playing fair, playing fair, playing fair. Nah, I ain't playing fair. Asked her why she's staying there, she said she don't know. Hello, my babies. Welcome to another YouTube video. Today, we're here in Switzerland, and I'm gonna take you guys through a conditioning session after boxing. So now, I'm gonna do a typical circuit session. So it's gonna be four main moves, and we're gonna start with a hammer, slam on the tire, med ball, slams on the floor, battle ropes, and jumps. So we're gonna be in four moments that we're gonna do each station for 30 seconds with no rest in between. And then we're gonna have one minute rest in between each round. So one round has all four exercises, 30 seconds for exercise, one minute rest for each round. We're gonna do that four times. So I always come up with the amount of rounds before I start the workout, and then from the middle of the workout, I regret so much how many rounds I did initially, because I'm so stubborn. I stick to it no matter what, and I make everybody stick to it, even if it's not gonna make any sense or even if it's horribly painful. So let's see how this goes. If you dare to do it, try it out. Let's go. I'm a nightland boy. Bro, if that's not famous, I don't know how. You're not that nice. You're famous? I'm gonna get you. Cold girls. You should. You should. You should. You should. You're from Florida. It's like basic attire there, especially in Broward. It feels nice. You got three seconds. Two, one, you're done. You know, coldness is known as the alien term. By your grandpa and your mom's side. But, by what? I throw that. By your grandpa. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. If you know the answer, put it in the comment section. 15. 10. 10. 2, 1. 10. 10. 10. 10. What are the facts you got? You know, dad, there's a reason why we're tears with each other. It's because we work the whole time to make sure that... people weren't putting poison on another person's drink. So that everybody with tears, that everybody would have some of their drinks on the other person's cup. That's genius. 15. These pictures will be cool here. Very cool. Stop! You're done. You're fine. You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? The teacher of the earth is ready to go up in the next few years to grow that one early. You're halfway? This is the worst one. Five seconds. And you're done. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're done. He's a hot dog or a sandwich? Why or why not? He's a because it's surrounded by basically two sides of bread and it has a vessel to carry other stuff. The hot dog is like the ham. Why are we making peanut butter jelly sandwiches with hot dog bread? Yo, a peanut butter jelly sausage. Dude. Kind of like cold so it keeps the shape. It keeps the shape and all you do is put it in between a hot dog BUN. Dude, that's it. I'm not putting this in the video. Halfway. Five seconds. And you're done. Halfway. Halfway. Five seconds. And you're done. What? They give you artificial rain. When they celebrate a conversation in the clouds, they send a drone up in the air and they increase the humidity of that cloud. And then, ah, they make it rain. They use that during COVID a lot to give people an endorsement. They wouldn't make it rain? Yeah. Halfway. Five seconds. Done. Anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed. If you dare try this workout, it'll absolutely kick the shit out of you. If not, if you have any questions, comments, concerns, please leave them down below. Let's chat in the comment section. Make sure you like this video, subscribe to the channel, and I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye.