 parentheses Welcome back. So yeah, we're here in Vegas for our training camp today's Sunday, which means it's Lazy Sunday actually, national weekly holiday as you all know, actually front upon and prohibited to do any activities that are inconsistent with the regulations of Lazy Sunday. Absolutely not any sort of intellectual conversations. Absolutely no work of any kind. In fact, I'm violating my own rule right now. Violating my own rule my babies, but it's for you. Yeah, so I've been training at this gym when I'm boxing with Dr. Pedro Diaz. He's written a bunch of books and Super Smart Guy, you know, one of the most famous boxing coaches in Florida. Been training, been coaching for over 40 years, has developed many, many, many professional boxers in his career and just has an insane amount of knowledge. Yeah, so it's pretty cool. I mean, what I like the most about going to train there is the environment. It's nice to be able to, one, not suffer alone when you're doing very difficult training sessions and two, it almost rubs off on you when you're training around people who have the same goals and the same mentality as you. My training partner is Paige VanSant. You might recognize her from the UFC. She fought there for many years. And yeah, so she's been training with Pedro as well and we've been training with each other almost every day. And we worked on close distance boxing, a lot of different situations on the ropes. And then we did a bunch of random shit. Yeah, like a bunch of different conditioning drills on the tires. I don't know what else. We did a bunch of stuff. That was like a three hour and a half training session. It's nice to be able to share that with someone who is as disciplined and as committed and as hard working as I am. And yeah, it just makes the whole process a lot more enjoyable. I had a friend in town, Jason. He's a pro bodybuilder. He's not competing anymore, I don't think, or for now, but he jumped in our session with us. We had a, was it a lower body day? Yeah, it was a lower body day. We squatted. There was pin squats, jumps, low jumps, jump to the bannerman double jumps, lunges, hamstring curls, reverse back extensions, step ups, net ball. Yeah, let's go. Cool. Most challenging part about the entire transition from barlifting and to boxing has been accepting the loss of strength. That, I mean, I'm still moving three plates in squat, four plates in deadlift, about like 80, 90 kilos in bench. It's not terrible, but you know. It's not what it used to be. Yeah. But yeah. It is. I'm not a barlicker right now. Yeah, so honestly, the only person I would trust with my conditioning program for something this important is my best friend, Jordan, Dr. Jordan Shalo. Shout out. I love you so much. Thank you so much for helping me. So yeah, he's been writing my program. Honestly, he's just one of the smartest people that I know. And just his knowledge is so in-depth and he's so critical when it comes to thinking about the hows and whys and selecting exercises that each single exercise that he chooses has a very specific purpose. There's no fluff in the program. There's no, hey, just going to do this because it looks nice. It looks pretty. It gets your heart rate up. No. Every single exercise is thought of and it has a purpose and it has a reason for why it's there. So I'm lucky that I get to pick his brain and that I get to have him in my corner writing one of the most important parts of my program. Yeah, happy that I get to share with you guys this journey. And you know, I hope that this interests you kind of what I've been doing with my training on the day today. It's very different to maybe the reason why most of you started or subscribed to this YouTube channel and surely was a purely powerlifting, strengthening channel and now, you know, moving on to boxing. So hopefully you guys are enjoying the journey. I'm enjoying it a lot and I would love to continue sharing and I would love for you guys to support me and come to my fights. And yeah, as always, I appreciate you guys support. If you guys are looking for strength training programs or nutrition coaching, please head over to hybridperformancemethod.com where you can find the best strength coaches and nutrition coaches in the game. Also if you want to look extremely and when I say extremely is I'm talking about the highest level of swag, highest level of swag, you will never, never look swagger than if you head out to hybridlegacybrand.com and purchase everything. In fact, you guys are going to get a sneak peek of this super dope shirt, the hybrid fight club t-shirt and this dope ad that my man, Cesar Lorca, made. So check it out. I've been fighting since I was a kid. The feeling I get, it's hard to explain. It's all I know. Wake up. Hey, wake up. Boom. Welcome back. Anyway, thank you guys for watching. Love you guys. See you next time.