 If you're a trainer, you've probably said it, and if you're an athlete, you've probably heard it. Keep the weight close to your body. That is a very common cue used for many exercises, including Olympic lifts and deadlifts, both sumo and conventional. This probably is why I get an uproar of questions and concerns anytime I post a video of me doing an RDL or any other movement that allows the weight to travel farther away from my body. Now, listen up, there's a method to the madness. Keep in mind that training for pure strength and training to isolate a specific muscle group are two completely different things. When we're trying to move a weight from point A to point B with the highest level of mechanical efficiency, of course we want to keep the bar or the weight close, so close that you might turn loose some skin over the matter. We want to use mechanical advantages to leverage our weight against that of the barbell, and a slight deviation from a vertical bar-bath could sabotage the entire lift. On the other hand, if you want to intentionally target a muscle and put as much tension on it as possible, we should actually try to put it at a mechanical disadvantage by moving the dumbbells slightly away from our center of mass, which is going to increase the distance between the weight and the joint, in this case causing the hamstrings and glutes to contract harder to control the hip-hingeing movement. In earlier terms, I'm increasing the lever arm by moving the resistance further away from the axis of rotation, in this case the hip, leading to increased torque in the hip-exensor muscles. I usually aim to keep the dumbbells hovering just over my forefoot, like this, because this equals more torque and stress in the muscles, which in the long run will lead to more growth and more strength. Something else I want to address with the RDL is changing your ankle position. We'll often see lifters and body builders and power lifters including myself, elevating their toes in order to increase dorsiflexion. This adjustment facilitates increased hip dominance of the already hip-focused exercise by putting the calf muscle on a stretch, which further restricts knee flexion. Hopefully you regal the hamstrings, our two joint muscle groups, so we can impart more tension onto them and further put them at a disadvantage with simultaneous knee extension and hip flexion without having to lock out the knees completely. Now what you want to feel with this movement is a deep but tolerable hamstring stretch at the bottom of the exercise. So when it comes to getting bigger and stronger, muscle tension is good, but neural tension is not so good, so perform the toes elevated RDL without comfortably uncomfortable range and over time you'll not only see strength inside size gains in your hand pops, but you may also be able to access new ranges of motion, especially if you're a ten-man who can't touch his toes or her toes with ease. If you want to blow up your ham is, ham is in a good way, try this style of RDL and let me know how it goes. Please answer the three next questions on the screen. Please share this video, comment on this video so we can continue making these high quality content for you guys. As always, thank you so much for your support, it means the world to me and I'll catch you guys next time. Peace.