! I'm going to see her. Even on my day, I have to point that thing out. So she paid me to do it. Yeah, so, I'm in Miami. It's a nice venue. Pretty much all my friends live here. This is exciting. I'm going to see her tonight for 8-5 cataplyne. Oh, so you're like sick and a last? Yeah, I'm excited. I just want to go in and enjoy and be able to showcase everything that I've been working on. I'm going to go inside. I'm going to take you to a spider now. From camp to camp, that's where I'm going to be. I'm going to be in the last vloggers and I'm going to start the show. I'm going to be in the last vloggers. Yeah, not out there. If it happened out there, it would have become a view. It has to be that good. I'm going to go get him. I'm going to show you what I've ever seen. Hell yeah. And now, her opponent from Miami, Florida, making her next fight at home. She is Stephanie Cohen. Give it up. Give it up. Strong Miami for your own. The first professional fight for Stephanie Cohen and her first here in her hometown of Miami. Actually her first fight in the United States, she fought in the Dominican Republic, she fought in Dubai, and now at home in Miami in her third professional fight against a very experienced ring veteran in Carla Valenzuela. Very curious to see what this does, because we've talked to Steffi before, we've been on the Mundo Boxing podcast together, and there's such a competitive fire with Steffi. We talked about it in the show open, I mean, Steffi was an accomplished soccer player for the, I mean, could've been on the Venezuela national team. Yeah. Came here, found powerlifting is a 25 time world record holder in powerlifting. First woman to powerlift over four and a half times her own body weight. And then all right, I conquered that, I conquered that, and now I'm gonna go get in the ring. And away we go against Carla Valenzuela, La Princesa against Steffi. It just shows you the continuous drive and she starts off strong. Yeah, scheduled for four rounds, it's two minute rounds in the Bantamweight division. Sonny, there's a great story. Carla, her nickname is La Princesa, the princess. And I remember asking her, where'd you get that nickname? And she's like, well, that's what they call me at the house. I'm the princess of the house. And later on in the night, we were done, and I saw Steffi and I wished her luck, and I said, she came up to me and she said, hey, why is she the princess? Why am I not the princess? And I said, well, that's her nickname, the princess. And Steffi says, that's okay, she can have the princess and I'll be the queen. Hey, that's a point taken from you. So yeah, it just shows you the mindset of Steffi Kohn, the mindset of an athlete, that even a nickname is a competitive thing. And I'll give it to her, you know, and especially, hey, she could knock us out just with a view, you know, it's like, oh, look at us and we're already knocked out. She is a very strong woman. And as you pointed out, she comes from powerlifting and her body pretty much shows it out. Yeah, that's been, I think, the hardest or the most interesting transition, because obviously, you know, in boxing, it's all about your legs. You know, for as much as we see, you know, every punch comes from your legs. So she's got that huge base, a great foundation. But it's only her third professional fight, so this is a great time against a ring veteran like Valenzuela from Durango, Mexico. 31 professional fights for La Princesa. I'll give it to her, because indeed, so far, she's been able to withstand the power approach that Stephanie has put so far. So you've got to give credit where it's due. It's not easy to stand out in one round, let alone two, Stephanie. It is no match. So for Valenzuela, it's about just kind of drawing her out. I hope she runs out of gas. That would be a good strategy. And here comes Stephie Cohen. House of fire. And Valenzuela, the ring veteran, immediately got herself off the ropes, trying to keep her distance. Valenzuela, the longer fighter. But Stephanie won her professional debut in the Dominican Republic, but then had to draw in that fight in Dubai. And she was so hard on herself. She was her worst critic. She was like, I caused that drop. And you know what? It's great, because again, that shows you that she keeps herself proactive and she keeps herself accountable, which is the problem. A lot of times, there's a lot of people that are willing to just turn around and let anything else be the excuse for not being able to get the job done. So proper for her to do that. Valenzuela and the blue trunks with the white trims and Stephie, as we mentioned, with the Vino team tour of Venezuela. Scheduled for four, round two, two minute rounds. Cohen hasn't been able to just get that key shot. Stephie has been the aggressor. Now Valenzuela going in there, engaging with her. And she's got a nice left jab by Stephie Cohen, just kind of letting her know. As we're in the waning moments, a round two, scheduled for four. And maybe part of what Cohen has to improve in her repertoire is getting that hip work done and improved. We see El Palillo, Isidro Nicolás in Stephie's corner, giving her some advice before she goes out there. One of the great legends in the Cuban boxing world. Part of the Mundo Boxing promotion family, Mundo Boxing, Boxing University. Could always go to the Mundo Boxing Facebook, Instagram, Twitter. So much going on, so it's such a stable that Pedro Diaz, the founder of Mundo Boxing is built with Stephie and Junior Dos Santos and El Chacal Rubenzo. You really wanna... Even Paige Van Sant. Yes. When she transitioned from MMA to boxing and Stephie going to work, pounding the midsection there with that right hand. But here goes part of the issue precisely. She does this, but having the frame of body that she has, still we see that she's not been able to pretty much dance it out around and really put in the combinations there because obviously it's not that easy. Right, and again, as much as we, oh, nice left! By Cone over to Valenzuela, she caught her going back and she got a nice left there and Valenzuela felt it and she immediately said, I'm gonna back up, I'm gonna be standing over here. Yeah. Valenzuela has not tried to engage her in the sense that she has tried to keep her distance. She has a longer reach. Which is smart to do. You don't wanna do the short distance with her just because. Because in the short distance, it's like having a bowl going straight at you. And you can tell, obviously, we don't wanna be too critical, obviously, it's only Stephie's third professional fight. Yes. But you can tell there are moments when you see Valenzuela backing up where Stephie just kinda lets her back up and doesn't go, as she's in the retreat, doesn't wanna go in there. Now granted, she doesn't wanna get caught. You gotta get a savvy ring veteran. Always the show of sportsmanship. And away we go in the final round in this Bantamweight division clash between Stephie Coleman and Carla Valenzuela. Our co-main event of the night, still coming up. Anthony White Chocolate Martinez against Alejandro Falliga. Eight rounds in the cruiserweight. So the big boys are gonna be out here. And now Stephie trying to get that work in. You can see Pedro Diaz in the back saying, throw, throw those punches. And Valenzuela kinda winning this round so far with the points, got her in there. Nice combination by Valenzuela. And Valenzuela knows that this is the round for her to go and get that Hail Mary. And Valenzuela just walked into a step left from Stephie though. And you don't wanna walk into one of those. Now a little body work by Valenzuela. And Stephie breaks her guard with that left again. Oh, nice left by Stephie. She is unforgiving with her approach. She is a bull, she is a move forward. Again, there go the combinations. Valenzuela in this round more than anything, working on that body. You almost wonder why she didn't try to do it earlier. She only has four rounds to play with. Which gives you little space to do this. Yeah, you gotta get it right from the jump. Especially when you face an opponent that is significantly stronger than you, which, Right. You can only guess that you're gonna have to dry her down much more. Final moments of the fight. Good show by both ladies. And I'll tell you what. Ladies and gentlemen, the results are in. And are as follow. Fernando Barbosa scores the fight 40-36. And there is 39-37 and 39-37 by both. Gloria Rizzo and Peter Samoisky. There for your winner in the red corner by unanimous decision, Stephie Cohen. Not much of a surprise there as Stephie was able to stay busy. Let's go up to Christian in the ring with Stephie. Steph, so first off, congrats. Very hard fought victory. You were forward. You were like a raging bull indeed tonight. And hey, your career is beginning off great. You get to fight at home tonight. Talk to us about that. Yeah, I mean, it's an honor and a privilege to be able to fight on a stage like this in front of all my friends and family. So really happy and grateful for all of you guys that came here to see me today. I love you guys. Walk us through the fight, how it was from your view. I honestly didn't expect her to still be standing on round four, but obviously looks can be deceiving. It was a great fight. She had a ton of endurance, walking forward all the time, putting pressure. It was a fun fight. In that same token, what did you learn from this fight that you want to improve ahead? A lot of things. I mean, I'm just getting started and I think I still have to improve on literally everything, but I'm looking at the past, my last fight and the improvements that have made sense and gonna keep doing what I'm doing with my team and moving forward. You know, coming from powerlifting and moving to boxing, a lot of people don't understand how tough a transition that is. Can you walk us for a moment on how that is? Because it's not as simple as it can seem. Yeah, it's a completely different sport that operates on the opposite end of the physical spectrum. You know, I did powerlifting and limb weight lifting for about 10 years before this. So it's all unilateral movements up and down, strength-based, no conditioning, and we're moving to a much more dynamic sport, one that changes every time that you get in the ring, that requires a lot of coordination and endurance and stamina and strength and power and intelligence, everything combined, so learning little by little. The personality element to boxing, you just spoke about being dynamic, where do you feel at currently in that aspect? I mean, on a scale of one to 10, I would say maybe a four or a five, just getting started. I have so much to learn, I'm really humbled by the sport. What do you have to say to everyone that has come in a very nice crowd here that Mundo Boxing has been able to put up in the Mac Double Tree? What do I have to say to them? Yeah. Thank you guys for coming, and Viwa the 305, hell yeah, Miami. Thank you so much, Stephanie, congrats again.