What's up my little babies? Today we are in Tampa, Florida. We came to visit our good friend Ben Papolski. He is known for being a professional bodybuilder. He's been in the industry for about 12 years. He's one of the pioneers and OGs in online coaching and education. You know, he's been in the industry forever and he's an accomplished athlete. So today we're here picking his brain about all things hypertrophy. I know I talk a lot about strength in my channel and not enough about hypertrophy which is what truly matters, right? People only want to look better naked. That's the most important thing. So that's what we're here for. We're here to learn how to look better, how to feel better. Ben, how are you? Amazing. Always good. Ben was hating on my music. He's like, "Hey, what do you what do you want to listen to?" And I'm like, she was going to ask me slow dance between sets, but how about some Bonjovi? He's like, "Uh, so what are you listening to?" You still go through phases, though, because like last month it was you just only listen to for like a whole month. Now it's Bonjo. Yeah. I mean, look, it's not like I'm training really hard right now. If I'm training really hard, I listen to Metallica, um, Iron Maiden, AC/DC. So, you'll laugh at me when I'm making fun of you for for similar reasons. So when I was competing and even before I started competing when I was in university, my challenge in workouts was not getting pumped up, it was getting too pumped up. So I would listen to classical music and that was the only thing that could keep me levelheaded cuz otherwise I would get so amped up I would get aggressive and pissed off and want to beat people up rather than train. True. So learn to classical music and I I learned to not like anything with lyrics cuz lyrics you start like singing it and like feeling people's emotions. I don't want anyone else's emotions. Yeah. I want I want to like have my own dialogue. So warm up. I just want to watch you do her first freestyle. It'll do itself. So what I'll do in a situation like this and you're training with her uh just like bring her in a movable object to push into cuz it's obviously very light. We're trying to get her to do is use the most hamstring possible at the bottom. And now your goal step isn't to beat me. Your go your goal is to ramp up contraction the hamstring. Yeah. So obviously when using 30 lbs your brain's only going to use 30 lbs of force. So, we're going to try to give her an immovable object. So, you're creating an isometric in that position. You keep that. So, the pelvis doesn't move right there. Good. See how that changes it. Stop. Stop. So, as you're curling up, your pelvis wants to go up, right? Cuz you're used to using power. So, we're going to get rid of that. Put you into a shorter position. So, we'll play with that a little bit. Look how much I'm sweating already. Jesus Christ. It's going to be a long session. I mean, you're if I see any movement at this end, I know this end is lengthening, right? So, this end is shortening, this end's lengthening. So, I want to get them to prevent that movement. So, come up on your forearms. So, we're putting them into a slightly more extended position. So, you're going to brace everything from the top of the pelvis up. So, we're going to brace the abdominals in. So, you're kind of like pulling your your balls up into your stomach. Pull your lats down. So, engage engage the lats from the top. So, everything from the top of the pelvis is braced. So, all the movement is happening below. Good. Now, see, do that again. Hold the position where you are right now. Like push this down into the pad a little bit. And try not to let this move. So his glutes are just a little engaged. Watch as he comes up. So the glutes loosen up. He's relaxing. So yeah, it's stiffer. Power li default to this. Right. So we can we can make this your default. Now it's more neutral pelvis. So you're less likely to run into hip problems, more back problems. So that's what this is just training that like slight posterior pelvic. So super braced here. Push this down. Like I want to decrease that space. Period. Yeah. Laur. So be hyper aware of what's happening here. This is going to do what it needs to do on its own. If you're hyper aware happens here from the bottom, stop. Don't put the weight down. Super slow and control. Just be really attentive to what's happening inside of your body. Really pull this up and in. Pull this up and in. There you go. Right there. Yep. So, it's up and in without I want to keep her hips down, but I want to pull the abdominals up and in. Down. Check. Good. Up. Drop. Down. Good. How feeling your lower back? Good. Okay. So, as soon as you get to here, it's going to start to hurt your lower back. So, make sure you're always Yeah. It's not necessarily a crunch. It's just more like a, you know, this idea of a column, right? I don't want to be in anterior pelvic toe. I want to be here neutral again. [music] Look, bodybuilding for powerlifters is three sets. Like, if you do three sets, that's it. Three sets of 10. Am I right? Don't move. Don't only pull you down. Don't pull you down. Good. Back up. Go. Hips down. Hips down. Stay there. Don't move. Don't pull you down. Come on. Two more. Strong. Come on. Pull. Hips down. Stay there. Don't move. P tight. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. One more. Come on. Up. Hold. Hold it right there. You said five. I just want to give you something to focus on. How you feeling? Oh, get down on film. The one person in the world I think would never ask that question. Hey, I'm leaving my ego at the door. You know what I mean? You what? I'm leaving my ego at the door. [music] Check it. Check it. Put it down. Put it down. What the hell? Okay. Like I couldn't tell. Like I said, I couldn't tell if it was your glue dippers or if you're actually No. No. He's actually anti tilted. Yeah. He had spine. He broke his back. Oh, wow. Yeah. That was years ago, though. So, you're going like thoracic extension. So, try to maintain that. Hey, there's so many things to remember. Same, bro. There's so many things to remember. Yeah, for sure. The big ones, man, are going to be your pelvic floor, like pulling your balls up in your stomach and driving your hips down. So, his ability, Steph, to produce force here is huge. Good. So, his lengthen position is great. You get him in the short position, he can't even use that little bit of weight. So, the differential is a big thing. That's why his pelvis is weak or it's why his pelvis is weak but it's ind indicating that his pelvis is weak. My back because I was doing everything that everyone told me to do as soon as I actually used my brain as everything else. Um yeah back for sure would be the answer but not cuz it was hard just cuz I didn't know what I was doing. Yeah legs. Can't build your legs. Huh? For you it's literally your legs. Well, your spine's going to be limiting factor, right? So squatting wouldn't be the best option for you because your spine is always going to be the bottom thing. So the way you look at it is like if I want to train my legs, I need my legs to be the thing that breaks that fatigues [music] first. Something else fatigues, it's not your legs. So if you're trying to load your spine, your spine's going to fatigue first. Your nervous system will shut down. So you'll never build them. So put on a leg extension or hack squat will be your best bet. Hack squat. Yeah. Right. Cuz that stabilizes [music] and benefit of hackover leg presses. Leg presses limits the range cuz if I start here now my range is whereas if I start here now I can get [music] exponentially more range. What do you normally like? Have you done like a first speed training at all or no? No, not really at all. Literally what you said squat and then you're just blessed. Yeah, we squat. I'm blessed by the meat rocket god by on saying stop at the top. Go back to the top. Put your big toe above the bed. I don't want you to be able to squash that both sides. Go. Always pulling your pelvic floor up into your stomach. Big toe. Big toe. Big toe. Two more up. Chill a little bit. How's your internal external rotation hip? My left legs. Why not both your feet? I also noticed your feet were a lot closer. Whatever comfortable, man. I'm not trying to say wherever works for your head position. [music] So, whatever feels comfortable for you. I feel like I mean I can go close and I feel like I feel it more in my quads when I do that. Okay. So, [music] there's no benefit to going more narrow for your quads except Yeah. Yeah. There's no that that's a it's just an error. [music] You can go narrow. I can keep your lower back against the pad. You're fine. So, here's how I would assess this. I [music] literally just stand up, hold something, and go. If I'm If I'm in this position, so I'll do it. Okay. So, if I'm in this position, I can get just past 90. If I go here, I can get to 120, right? So, maybe I get like, see where you can get as far as hip flexion without letting you lower back around. So, you got great hip mobility in that plane. Right. So, you can go in the frontal plane. So if that range is available to you in a narrow stance, is it preferable or is nothing? So the way I look at it is if you were to forget about what's happening on the outside and what's happening on the inside, I'm looking at the joint. So my only goal for this exercise is to take the knee through the full excursion. So I just don't want the hip to interfere with that. Right? So if I can only go to here on my knee, chances or sorry on my hip, chances are my knee is not going to go as far as it wants. Whereas if I go here now, my knee can go further. Does that make Can I go off? before as hard as you can before you move. Speed. Yes. Yes. Two more. Strong. Come on. Strong. We're going to have to do more than two sets again. Like [\h__\h] do cardio. I need to push for a good shake. did like eight reps on that set. Too soon. All right. Is there a rep range we're looking for? Yes. Just warming up, man. Warm up. Warm it up, huh? All right. I think I'm warm. Yeah. I genuinely think body building is harder than Harley. Yeah. Well, it depends what you're good at, right? It's harder for you because you've trained a very specific way your whole life and maybe that way it feels more No, no. I mean, objectively, you think bodybuilding is harder. Yeah, I think maybe right. Cuz the diet portion of it sucks so just so much. And so does the training. It's like you're training with no glory. Imagine for garlic you're cutting for 24 hours for a meat. It's brutal. Mhm. Imagine cutting for 8 weeks like or half a year. Yeah. The diet component I think makes it so much more difficult. Yo, he's cheating you. No, I'm not. How dare you? Look how fast he's going. Ben was going fast. You're not bad. I counted zero reps. Just pay attention to how your foot hits the ground. See if you can make that first inch really, really hard. So, let's go super slow. Stop. Drive up. Don't move in. Drive up. Good. Now, go slow. There you go. Keep going. You got strong. First inch is going to be most important. Sharp from the bottom strong. Push. Drive. [\h__\h] power lifter. Chose the wrong day not to wear shorts. I know. An upper body outfit. See, you got to cover the upper body on leg day. Yeah. Unless you cuz all all the blood is being taken from everywhere put into your legs. You look small in your upper body. Unless you mean that I always look big. No matter what, no matter when. No matter how. You know what I'm saying? But I don't rip this shirt. It's my favorite one. The one thing conceptually that makes the way that I train different is as I was saying to Hayden, this conscious attempt to as I squat, not just let myself fall, but use my hip flexors and my hamstrings to consciously pull me down. So come in here, hip flexors already. I hear the hamstrings are pulling and I'm like this loaded spring. You get it from a powerlifting perspective. So that's success. Yeah. So that's how a lunge should feel. And if you're doing a walking lunge, it's, you know, a hip flexor and hamstring. But if you're doing a stationary lunge, you can also add in this this component of taking this foot and pushing it in that direction, taking this foot and pushing in that direction. So you're trying to split the floor. So I get to here, and I'm literally using this back foot to create more resistance to this front foot. So I'm like getting into this position. I'm shoving, right? So I'm intentionally like creating more force. Obviously, when you add weight, it changes, but if you're just doing body weight stuff, it's a really easy way to increase load like at home training type stuff. So, try that. Let's see. So, that was that was pushing away on the Yeah. So, right there. Don't move. Yeah. Keep your knees bent. Stop right there. Now, just spread the floor. So, one goes forward, one goes back aggressively. Now, slowly use your hip and your hamstring. You're going to push to pull you down. Keep the weight all the way in the front leg. Continue to push back with that leg. Now, come straight up like you're in two. No going back. Stay over it. Well done. Come down as low as you can. Actually create tension by pushing forward like you're trying to push my foot out of the way. Push through it. So I mean you use that for balance. I mean not not using your hand isn't a bigger. Use that to pull yourself up. Give my quad gauge, bro. Oh [\h__\h] See that? Look at that. I'm going to do a show. Oh, you want to talk about glutes. So, you know this, but I'm going to say Danny, we talked about it in class. Distance. Two things that are going to be the differentiating factor. Strength in the extremes of the range and distance. So, extremes of the range like glute bridges. And now, I think the best thing to to really engage the glutes from that lengthen position is is uh single leg deadlifts. You ever do like a single leg on a splint machine? Let's do that. It's really challenge that lengthen position. So, come to the bottom and stop. I know there's no weight on the top. Keep this leg straighter. Drop the hip down a little bit. Keep this leg back straighter. Just really push through that floor. Don't move yet. Don't move yet. Push that to the floor as hard as you can. Squeeze that glute charge again. Now use that to contract. Yeah. So two second engage contraction. Make it isometric through the floor before you go. And instead of just standing up, think about pulling this into a posterior pelvic tilt. as heavy as possible. So, I need to contract as hard as possible. Same mentality, just directed in a different place. I like that. Yeah. Obviously, resistance [music] matters, but So spine is rigid. Lower leg is rigid. The only thing that's moving is that [music] glute. This is super tight. Come to the bottom and don't move. Stop. That's it. It's far enough. Twist it up. We're taking this back. Find the hip flexor. Stop right there. Don't move. Drive this into the ground as hard as you can. You get as much force through the ground with that heel. Bend the knee a little bit. Good. Now you can track that hard. I don't think you need any help. Hope you [snorts] guys enjoyed this video. A little bit different from what we've been doing. Um, it's a learning experience for me always to do, you know, stuff outside of my comfort zone. Real hypertrophy training coming from from a professional bodybuilder is completely different to the way that I'm accustomed to training. And it's it's honestly it's it's such a huge challenge for me cuz like I was telling you guys it's like for me three sets of 10 is body but obviously for them three sets of 10 is literally the warm up to a particular exercise. It's like not even the warm up. Yeah. Ben before Ben left he just left. He goes welcome to keep playing training. So he didn't really do much. Huh? We did so much for power. Well, you know, you guys didn't really train, so if you want to stay here and actually get at training in I'm like, wait, what? That's our volume for the week. Yeah, that was more volume that I've done since 08 pretty much. Um, well, if you enjoyed this video, but first of all, if you have any questions, drop it down below in the comments. If you want to get in touch with [music] Ben, if you're interested in in his seminars, in his education material, you can find all of his stuff over at Muscle Intelligence. Muscle Intelligence.com, I believe. We'll put the link below. Yeah. Okay, we'll find it. You can find him at what's his Instagram? Cecilski. Cack something. Yeah. Okay, we'll pop it up here. Caesar, you're in charge of that right there. And yeah, I mean, if you enjoyed this video, maybe hit the like button if you really really like this video, then maybe subscribe to the channel. And if you really really really really really like this video, then head over to our website, hybriderformancemethod.com. Snack training program, snack nutrition program, [music] snag hybrid t-shirt, the best in the game, most artsy in the game, most you know, if you wear hybrid apparel, it you know what that says about you? It's a statement. It's a statement. It's you're committed. You know, you're dedicated. You your way around the gym. Yeah, you you know where you're at. You know what you need to do. You you you're a focused person, right? So, make that [music] statement. Yeah. You walk around Ali Fitness and people see you in a shirt like this. Well, damn. That's one of those hybrid people. Yeah. Yeah. That's Yeah. He knows what he's doing. She knows it. So, anyway, I mean, hope you guys enjoyed and I'll catch you guys next time. See you. Bye. Wish that you stay. I can't let you by my side.