! We are at Dragon's Lair. It's my buddy Flex Lewis's gym. Is there a second time here? Yes, we were here. We coincidentally met Flex Wheeler. And super nice guy. We asked him if we could get a workout in with him. I'm really curious to hear some of his training philosophies and watch him train. I have so much respect for him and everything that he's done. He didn't actually grew up watching his videos. It was really cute to see him ask him for a fat photo. I feel like I've been a fanboyed for the first time. It was really cute. I'm normally like that's so lame when people ask other people for photos. I never do that. And then I stop. So let's see what Flex got for us. So you want to do all upper body? Not all of it. Okay. That sounds like a lot. Yeah, it would be way too much. So I believe in, as I was explaining to him, I believe in high reps. And my logic is I know a long time ago people was like, you know, if you do high reps, you're going to burn muscle off. How many reps is high? 20. Okay. 20 is almost like you've done three or four sets already. I just, I don't believe in wasting all this time in a gym, right? Just achieve your goal and get out. So, all right. Ready? Okay. Nine foot, talk your feet. There you go. Yes. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. There you go. Good job. In terms of the intensity of those 20 reps, should you be getting close to failure, failure or not even close? Well, nine times out of 10, it doesn't matter. If you do anyone else's workout, you're going to come to failure quicker because you're not used to it, right? Your body's conditioned to it. So nine times out of 10, my clients would say, I can't get to 20 with this weight. I'm like, the weight don't mean crap. So do however many you can. If you need to drop the weight, the most important thing is hitting that rep range of 20, not your weight. So, I'm going to go to failure, whether or not to fail, if you don't want to go beyond that point, this is your grip, I get weak and I'm holding my legs and next to you, you know. So, I'm paying attention to you guys' body language. Come on, let's go. Five, squeeze, six, more fast, seven, eighteen. I know there's no point in doing it. 19, 20. So, you guys are paying attention to this, a minute, turn around. So when you're doing back, normally the first thing people do is they go, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. Normally, the first thing people do is they go up here. So, you're already contracting your biceps. You don't want to go here, right? You want to pull here first, engage into the lat. If I put my hands underneath here, and I pull down, see how the lats are engaged already? So that's the difference from pulling from there versus pulling from here. Pull down, see the biceps going to come into play. So, your first movement on here is contracting here, right? They're gonna come to play anyway, cause they're second to everything else. But you don't want it to be first. So again, pulling here and then contracting a lot of way down and all the way up, all right? I'm always curious to know, especially people who have achieved so much in a sport, what, how do you overcome failures? I just had a really rough life, you know, on the wealth. You went with? Yeah, just my childhood, you know, just on welfare. We were super poor and, you know, money was scarce. You know, clothes were scarce. Sometimes I didn't need, you know, sometimes I didn't have a place to stay in high school. I was homeless, you know, sleeping in a car. But I started training in martial arts when I was seven. And no matter what, I've always been wired that I am. I'm an extreme competitor. I'm just very, very competitive, not in a bad way. I just, I just love, and I hate failure within myself. Right? I can't stand this great coach from UCLA. His name was John Wood, one of the greatest coaches in history in basketball. He had a saying, and it's, we have to learn how to lose what I'm being defeated. So it's okay to lose, to be defeated is a whole different thing. And some body parts are actually all body parts. I have this other, like, weird analogy. So when you're in class, there's a whole bunch of students, right? And the teacher has to divide herself up to all the students, right? But if your tutor is just you and a tutor, just one on one, you get more, right? So the same thing, if I'm contracting both muscle, that's a lot of concentration, right? Versus just doing one. You can put everything into it. Also, the weaker side is more explosive than it has to do with his own work, right? That number is, I'll call it 13, 14, 15. All the way back, all the way back. 16, yes. 17. Good contraction, huh? 18, 19, all the way. Got a hand full of sweat, I wasn't expecting that. So good. I'll keep my hands away from my face. So how's the workout going? I mean, picture's worth a thousand words? Should take a picture of that. So, comps that I can't even flex. My lats are just, I just feel, yeah. And this is an XL, right? Yeah, this is a double X. How do you overcome doubts after feeling it? See, I never have. I'm just really effed up like that. I've never believed in myself. From my childhood, I have very, very, very low self-esteem. So I never thought I could win any show. I always thought it was a joke. I thought they would call me and come and take my trophies and my money away. So at a young age, I understood that people would take your weaknesses and use them against you. So I just kind of, not knowing it, I created this flex wheeler, alter ego guy that didn't take shit from nobody. You wanna make it happen, let's make it happen any way you want. But that was to really protect me, Ken Wheeler, because all the things I've been through, I'm a realist, and so I'm aware that it can and it can't happen. Me, mentally, I rather set myself up like, you know what, I don't know if I'm a win this, but you know what, I'm not gonna lose because I didn't try and give it all I got. But I'm not gonna walk around and think, like, here I'm gonna win this show or, you know. How's the club, bro? Huh? How's the club? Pretty good. How's it look? Not bad. I call this new up the eclipse. That was looking huge. My lats. I literally feel my lat in my back pocket. I'm just like fatigued all the time. Invisible basketball. First we're gonna do hot potato. So that's 21, it's cause it burns so bad, you're like, fucking take it! Hurry up, it's your turn, alright, so. I'm eating a pussy. What? What? I don't want my arms to get tired. No, you don't really like that. No, like I don't want my arms to get dirty for tomorrow. I'm leaving, I'm coming out of my roof leaving. Don't give a fuck, I don't care. Did the shit by my lonesome, no wonder now I'm on one. No shortcuts on that long run. I'm like, really, one is my share. Get them, I got them, I tell them it's nothing. In the discussion, fuck all them feelings, I throw all my pain on percussion. She the disgust, they're not here, I'm bragging about shit that they did, and they do not move me, not enemies. They ain't been dropping no seeds in the sub, but swear that you own my spot at the feast. I been on cold mode, show them. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah, yeah. Are you doing it right? Yeah. Just take your arms, right, take your arms, flare them, not up, out, right, through your lats. So from here, all I'm doing is flaring my lats, then from there to here. Yep, there you go, and relax, and relax. So the other thing is your arms are up too wide, so if I go like this, I'm not that wide, right? So again, I only open up as wide as I am, from the end. Yeah, nice, that's a pleasure. Beautiful. So roll your shoulders back. All right, now open, there you go, that's better. So keep yourself wide here, bring your arms in more. Just listen, does this make me wider? Or does this make me wider? Relax, relax. All I want you to do is go like this. That's it. Nice. Or traps and everything in a way. So it's called the relaxed pose, or semi-relaxed pose, right? So again here. Okay. The thing about it is you have crazy lats, but they're hitting, so what you're doing is, you're actually too easy. That's not it. That's definitely not it. Next pose, front double bicep. Okay. All right, so from there, all you're gonna do is rotate your shoulders back. You're gonna put your lats, that's all it is. So it takes again flexibility, right? Just rotate your back. Good enough. Actually, that's pretty good. Yeah, shit. You probably used to doing that pose right before your fights, yeah. That's pretty good. Yeah, that's pretty good. You gotta make that face. Yeah, I don't know what face that is. What are you thinking about? What? Shit-y. Shit-y. Shit-y. He's taking a dip. See his roof? That's his shit. So first thing is just go like this. Don't worry about the legs. Just upper body, just go like this. So the difference is, you guys do this, all that, don't even flex, right? Hands here, relax. Just go like that. So that's part of it. Posting out. That's down to it. That's down to it. Flex the body set, find it out. That's the body set. That's good. Pull more, pull more. You do. Pretty impressive. So he wins. Probably you coming second to get my boys taking a strong third place. Again. Yup. Crazy, freaking crazy. That's crazy. That's crazy. That's impressive, man. I wouldn't have thought you would have those things on the post too. All right, great, great. That's so cool, I win. Thank you. When you're a little bit of a, not a pessimist, but a realist. When you're a little bit more of a realist and you have more doubt and fear within you, you tend to overprepare. That was me. And I could be bad. I call it a double edged sword. It cut both ways. I'm sure you felt always the same way. No matter how well you did, you always thought you could do better. I'm angry. So she would always leave the show at the competition and try to throw her medals in the trash. And sometimes she would, like gold medals of the biggest competitions. And I'd go behind her. And then me, the optimist though, went behind her and would pull them out of the trash. And now, so we still have them all. I have all that stuff in your bag. The nationals, I threw my medals away. But I don't even know where my Olympia medallions are. I don't know where they are. They just collect us. It's the honor and the respect and it's a chase of the dream. So yeah. It's not about the accomplishment itself, but what other skills and how were you able to impact people along the way.