 parentheses Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes. Oh, boy. This guy's insane. Yeah, okay, welcome to another YouTube channel. Just another day training. This is my second session of the day. I'm leading on to another fight that I just got last minute, November 21st in the Dominican Republic. So training is starting to wrap up again. Now we have more boxes, specific drills. We have some more on the bag. And then we have some Cuban combat school in the ring that I'm gonna do with Karim. This video today is sponsored by my newest partner, Elements. Elements is a salt, electrolyte powder that you put in your drink for the purpose of improving your hydration and subsequently your performance. So I'll be educating you guys a little bit more on what the benefits of Elements are. But for the most part, what you need to know is each pack has a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium, which is an amazing mix of electrolyte and sodium alike that will undoubtedly help you perform better. There's a lot of misconceptions around being the topic of sodium consumption because of years and years and years of misinformation from the media to the public that have scared people away from souls because of its relationship to kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. What we know, just based on the latest research, that that is not necessarily the case, especially if you're a healthy individual, the sodium recommendations for athletes or for the regular person are extremely low. So if you're somebody who's an athlete and who sweats a lot, you probably need to look at your sodium consumption. So join the saltiest crew of high performance and see for yourself. Head over to drinkelement.com slash hybrid to get your sample pack of Elements. All you have to pay for is the cost of shipping and you'll get all eight flavors delivered right to your doorstep. Yeah, so what are you guys doing today? We're just following the plan. The plan is always, always ready here. Secret, we can't say what is, but yeah, we usually, we do more, we work more on the equipment bag and then after we're gonna do some boxing school. Let's go. The noise is bad, the jam, the double jam. The devil's on that. The devil's on that. Come on, come on. Excuse me, Mrs. Steffi Cohen. What are you doing, ma'am? Nobody. Ma'am, I would like to know every detail of your life, please, ma'am. Are you training? Hello, Marcus, how are you doing? What's up, big season? What are you doing, bro? Stretching? Six pigeon poses. You look good in that position. Goodbye. I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna do that. It's fucking good. It's gonna be good. Face and face. Come on. Come on. Come on. Watch your target. Okay. Okay. Why don't you give it away to the shrimp? Anyone want a drink? Is that why you need elements? That's why I need elements. Yeah, it's really uncomfortable. You kind of forget how uncomfortable it is, especially during a fight. But then there are some times in training that are like... They're not created enough from that. And you feel that way during the fight. Like if you get hit, that's how you feel. The only difference is that you actually can't stop and you're getting hurt.