After a six-hour long flight, we landed in LA and began our 2-hour drive to San Diego. Along the way, we stopped at a gym called So-Cal Powerlifting [music] in a small city named Irving to do my last workout before the meet. I benched and did some more upper body exercises to shake off the travel and get a good pump. Tight all the way through. Right back. Same thing. T all the way through back being good. Done. I've done squat, bench, and deadlift enough this week. So, I don't know. Might help on uh their cardio stuff and do some bodybuilding. Shaba rinks. Training shaba rinks. That means that I'm training shaba rinks. The new style [music] benching in jeans. Hey, Alex. Should I start a trend? Nice stretch. Stretch things together, dude. Like for women, jeans are made for like all different body types. The dudes much harder now. But to finish what I was saying, I wore my sister's jeans and like this. I wore them with my ass out. You know what I mean? It didn't make any sense. It's like why is he wearing such tight pants with his ass? Did you do that? Hey, stop skating. Like we had like baggy I was like into skateboarding stuff. So we had skate the skate teams were different. I'm dreaming about being at the Airbnb with bubbles. Airbnb. I'm so excited. We got a jacuzzi on the deck. I'm going to be lounging and lounging. You know what I'm saying? After our workout, we hit the road again to our Airbnb, which was everything we expected. This view right here is one I will never forget. That's [music] what I want. As the sun set on this day, I spend the last couple of hours preparing mentally for what I knew would be a very physically and mentally demanding challenge. I have zero. For frame of reference, this is what it looks like on a regular sized head. I was like, I don't know. Pretty normal. Eating my last meal [laughter] in style. Shaga. Uh, she's done eating for the day. She's going to do three rounds of 20 minutes in the little portable sauna. She's going to have an ice bath. Uh, and then she's going to go up to the hot tub. This is another technique you can use. To lose more weight, open your slather coconut oil. Oh, yeah. I went to the con the day I got in. All up in there all around. How you feeling in there? Good for now. It's about to get nasty though. It's about to get real bad. It's so sweaty. Look at my feet. Look at my hands. Look at my hands. Look at my hands. Yo, what's this? Like 10 lbs already? Am I right? You're not weighing it. You're done. You're [\h__\h] That's my Yeah. Feels like I remember [laughter] it. You know, looking [music] goat champ. You move your feet though. I don't want it to hit you. There's a course like there's a beer. Ah, that's what I'm talking about. Surprise from the Airbnb uh owner. This is not comfortable at all. But then you tell yourself is already like melting. That's how hot she was from the sun. The heat the champ is bringing My boy, Dr. Andy Galpin, helping me through this cut, doing some pretty unconventional things that I have never tried before. He's helped so many people at the high level that [music] are the competing weight restricted sports, fighting, diving, weightlifting, [music] powerlifting, I don't know what else. So, I really trust his judgment and [music] I'm doing exactly what he tells me to do. It's nice to be able to like cool your body down, you know? This is something we don't usually do. I hate No. Like, we just kind of like stay warm. Stay warm the entire time. Yeah. I feel like this kind of brought me back to life. What's the first thing you're going to eat when you get off this cut tomorrow? Greek yogurt. Oh, what flavor? Coconut oil. And coconut water. Coconut water. Greek yogurt. I like the plain flavors. I like the tart tart yogurt. I love tart yogurt. You made weight now. Now it's extra credit. And I mean I always float over weight of a pound. Like I lose a pound overnight usually just from like being alive. After multiple hours of cutting, we finally made weight. And now it's time to drive to the venue to get on the scale and log in my weight. This part always gets me nervous and excited about the meet as I walk [music] around, get on the platform, and begin visualizing the plan for the next day. The official weigh in killed that wasn't ready. I feel like I'm cute. Hey, buddy. Hi. Yo, what? We just got left in the dust, bro. Yo, it goes fast. Now that the hard part is over, we decided to head down [music] to the beach to see the view, walk around, and relax. It's nice to know that in the midst of craziness, I can always find comfort on this guy. I'm lucky to have someone in my life who respects and understand my goals and who treats them as his own as well. He's been trying. This is his moment, guys. You want to watch a replay? Let's do a replay. Can you put this in slow motion? I guess you don't even need to I could have done the slow motion. Let me hear the sound effect. Oh, this one. Midday has finally arrived. Nerves are high, but I'm ready to do what I do best. 170, 120, 170, 200, 210, and then we and then 220 will be your opener if 210 feels good, which it should. I'm driving in the car and just popping back these apricots, you know, and then all of a sudden I start thinking I'm like, "What are what are what are these dried apricots? Is it like dried apples where they like they slice them and you're eating slices or are these like entire apricots?" And then her girlfriend's like, "Oh, they're entire apricots." She's like, "Are you serious? I just had 13 of them. He's like, even if this was [\h__\h] Weight Watchers and I'm sure it'd be zero points, but it's still a [\h__\h] problem. Pretty much our value of everything. Back up. Yeah. Come on. All the way over the shoulder All right. Come on. Let's go. Good boy. Coming to these events reminds me why I do this. Because no matter the outcome, seeing the people that have my back gives [music] me fire. Seeing their support influences me to be the best, and their [music] support never goes unnoticed. I may not have come out on top, but [music] this trip was full of unforgettable moments with people I love. These moments can never be replaced. [music] Until next time, [music] San Diego.