

=== FILE: 5 BROS ON A WEST COAST BIKE TRIP ACROSS CALI ｜ Motorcycle Vlog ft Mat Fraser Mat Vincent & Sean Macd [pDAKcGoBwbw].txt ===

 okay this is gonna be the first time that I actually complete a vlog because with the gopher so easy look at this So we're in Phoenix We missed our connecting flight. Yes. Yeah, we did to work with Santa Ana We're going to Santa Ana or Phoenix. Yeah, so now We're just making our way over up there a five-hour layover in Phoenix to meet up with our friends in Santa Ana and start our trip Yeah I'm vlogging You What You think This three days is like vacation So today we have a 10-hour drive Which I'm interested to see how that goes for me because I can barely do 10 hours in a car I get really impatient. So we'll see. I mean, maybe this is like more engaging with a road and whatnot But we'll see we'll see how I hold up. I keep you guys Sean give me a rundown of the bike Well, we have two bikes you're gonna be on our new chieftain, okay Which is our old air-cooled motor but our full touring bagger and then these guys are gonna be on our Challenger This is our new liquid cooled bagger, which is fastest shit How fast? Like there's nothing in my five-year plan that involves a fucking motorcycle wreck helping What you doing No days off never back down Pain is weakness leaving the body If you ain't first your last For reference we just did an 11 hour motorcycle ride. We're all smoked 10 11 p.m She's still going Yeah, that's annoying I'll be up till 5 a.m We're going boss we are going Little iron a grande for a ride He lives in store Rihanna grande in his ride I don't have a variety of things that's biker music y'all. He's just his face. He's like a fuck When you actually only have porn Was more mad because I was gonna surprise you all as we left my blanket as loud as possible You guys missed it we're going to moderate today. We're gonna ride through Big Sur ride through Central California wine country We're gonna check out Carmel Valley and Monterey and go see some big treats Sighted hell yeah, I'm excited dude riding motorcycles with my friends. Yeah, there's nothing better than this You Good morning guys. We're just a bunch of fucking amateurs They're dwindling quick All we know is sets and reps You were just like you know what the stereo type can't be true not all meat heads Nah, uh, listen, top of their field, they have to be intelligent. I'm a doctor. Oh man, I have a general studies degree, I've never claimed to be smart. Hey, hey, doing great. We're doing fucking great, Canada. So let's hear the key story. Okay, so... Yeah, how did you lose your key on the highway? I'll explain. So, uh, I was behind Steffy. He just gave it up. I see Steffy's phone go flying down the thing. So I'm like, oh fuck, I pull over, stop. I run back, it's like half a mile back. Yeah, you look like a cinder block. You look like a cinder block trying to run. Explain. The impersonation. Huh? The impersonation, okay. I'm very happy about that. I'll be a booster, alright? Like his quad's, like, it was only knee movement. His quad never had any, like, backside motion. I don't know how to run, like, just... Are you running like you're trying not to shit your pants? Like that, right? Only bend. High knees. Okay, so? Um, yeah, so anyway, I'll run all the way back there, sprint all the way back, so I'm trying not to hold up the group. Right. Uh, get there. I put the... Success. Yeah, this is going great. Put the phone in the little compartment, right? Yeah, right. The whatever. The mini glove box thing. Yeah. Uh, catch up to Steffy. Okay. Pull over, give it to her, but I have to pop open the thing. Pop open the thing. As I pull it out, he comes out with it, somehow bounces onto the road, and then a car goes... Immediately over it. Right over it. One second later. Now this is what's left of it. Just the manual key, which only opens the... I don't do this. Fuck, it's sick. Bailey's calling the tow truck, which means we're riding two up on somebody's bike. You want to hold on the back of me? Hold on. Steffy will get on the back of you in the bike, right? That seems like the manual. Is it? And why is that? Huh? I like to put a lot of Steffy here. Why is that, Matt? Body weight proportions. You know what, you want to hold me around? You fucking hold me. You can't even stand the bike up with just you on it. Oh, yeah? You're going to do it in the other back? Yeah. Says the guy who just tipped over. Right. Oh, Roadster! You're not a worldwide... You know what, for the first crash... I got the least user error of everyone, alright? Yeah, except your bike doesn't work anymore. I know. Loser! You're going to be on the back of my bike, you just give me back tickles while we ride. You will be the two happiest campers. That was such a cool... Your girls get the side part of your skin. We went to Vegas one year for like, inner bike when I had my bike shop. Like a fucking man. And instead of getting a rental car to get around, we had like six of us and we talked when we were shooting and drinking at something. Oh yeah? Yeah. So we all had no beds? That's right. Uh oh. Oh fuck. I think we're in trouble. I hope we have to fight like a cougar or something. You have a knife? Like an old lady for it. Alright. No, like a... A foxy old lady? I'm into it. She's just overly aggressive with puns and she's like, I like to party. And then her tits out in the hometown. Like, man, hit the brakes! She's just overly aggressive with puns. We've arrived at our destination after a super long day, long and chaotic day where literally nothing went as planned but life still rips my babies. It is day three. Last and final day of our road trip adventure and honestly I'm excited it's coming to an end. So tired. So tired. How are you guys feeling? Good. Great dude. A little stiff? A little stiff this morning when I got up. Yeah? I'm ready to rip. Which body part? Just low hip and back. Low hip and back? Yeah. Pure groin for me. What's low hip? You know, the area lower than my hip but it's not quite leg. I've never heard that being this good. All my problems are like internal. They're all like in a hip socket but tucked into a place that they can't seem to find on normal anatomy charts. You're on a roll with language today. Alright Sean, run us through where we're going to today. Today is our last day of the trip. We're going to ride the entire coastline from Monterey to Los Angeles. Big Sur, Morro Bay, back to San Luis. Yeah, we're just going to get some hundred miles of just windy roads overlooking the most beautiful she had in the entire world. Music playing. We've arrived at what it seems to be our last spot. Stopped spot. I hate that I'm thinking that I want it to be over because it's so awesome but I'm so tired. So, yeah now. But I'm ready to be home. What did you say about spreading yourself as thin as possible? After being on the bike all day, like I just want to spread all of my muscles and flesh as thin as possible across the thing. Music playing. I'm proud of myself. I committed to this blog and I did it. Right. Trips over. How are you doing? How's your body? My body's fine. I went the entire trip without a sunburn and then yesterday I just got out the sunscreen in my face and I don't have a face mask. I was wearing sunglasses so got a little face burn. Better than that, I'm good. Nice. I feel pretty okay. Except for my back cell over the sore. Back to the jacked up. Yeah. For you, no matter the size of the bike, you're always going to have to lean more forward than everybody else because you're so little. Yeah. So that's just going to put more on your back for sure. Yeah. I am a good, good to be a gangster. Music playing.

=== FILE: 5x OLYMPIA COMPETITOR DESTROYS MY SHOULDERS & TEACHES ME TO POSE ｜ FT IVANA WILKIN [ptk4qqg0uA8].txt ===

! In today, I'm going to train with Ivana. Yeah, she's pretty cool. She trains really hard. I asked her if I could train with her before I left, and she said yes. I started competing in 2012, but I was in college, in figure. I ate spinach for every meal because I was like, yes, I get ready for a bodybuilding competition. I weighed 104 pounds on stage. I won my class, and then like, I had no idea what was going on, and then I competed at one more show and was Miss Iowa, and then I was like, okay, everyone's like, you got to go to nationals. Well, I had no idea what that was. I ended up going pro. How do you balance what movements you do heavy and what movements you do light for volume? Sure. It really depends on what I need to work on. I do a lot of pull-ups. A lot of pull-ups. It just really depends on the day, but I'm always lifting heavy every single set. We're not going to do any set and not with heavy. Unless we're doing a super set and that secondary movement will be a little bit lighter. But that's it. I am a little old-fashioned, for sure. Good. Good. Breathe. Good. Boom. Yep. Yep. Go. Yep. Push. Come on. Push, push, push, push, push, push, push. One more. Come on. All you need to push, push, push. Good. How much did you assist me? How much did you assist me after what rep? Did I do at least one by myself? Yeah, okay. Like five by yourself, for sure. I'm going to assist you. I always say, please spot me in the hole, which is your weakest point in the movement. It's what I call the fucking hole. You spot me in that and I'm good. Let's both just do one set first so we can kind of know where we're going to wait for 15 reps. And then what we'll do is do 15 reps, take 15 breaths, 15 reps, 15 breaths, 15 reps, and then that's it. We're done. Okay? Figure. I truly believe it is one of the hardest female categories to compete in. Every category is hard in its own way, okay? But when I say that, I talk about the judging. Everything is straight off, okay? There's no hiding flaws. We're in wellness, in bikini, in women's disease. You can figure, they can choose your poses and you can tweak them in any way you want. With that being said, that is, I think, is the hardest thing about figure. So they're looking at this beautiful cemetery at the shoulders. Everything's tying in. So I'll show you later when you pose. Everything's in edge. Okay. So I got 10 there. Holy moly. So do you speak another language? No. You do? Okay. You? Um, my mom is Serbian and my dad is Croatian, so I speak both of the very similar languages. How do you say what's up my babies in Serbian? Um... Kaku se moja ženet. You're going to have to say that so play the video because that's what we call our audience. Oh my gosh. Okay, perfect. Or kaku se moja bebe. All right. Have fun. Three sets of ten. Go ahead. You're 15. 15? Okay. One. Yes. Two. Three. Four. Five. You have strong little forearm fat for sure. Okay, I love it. Almost like I hate forearm fat. They're so cute. Good. Keep going. Push. Yes. Yes. Keep going. Give me two more. That was 15. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Five. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You're good. Come on. Take out. Relax. You see like your like paralyzing habit? Yeah. As soon as it gets hard you like start jumping. Heavy. You're like just start looking for ways to do it. You put your feet back your chest up. I know. You start to put your hips whatever to get them to this thing moving. I want you to stay completely stationary. It's funny though because I can see your like body just like nothing in your face but your He's like, I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna do this. Push, two more. One, yes, good. Relax. Whoa, they're poking through. Dude, I look like a sopping wet noodle. Straight up. That's why I wore shirts. I'm gonna drink with these two, like that. I'm gonna just show my quets, cause like that's the only thing that doesn't need to be pumped to like. Seriously, she's up here talking about your floor. I'm like, I can't take my eyes off. Three more. Yep. Yep, one more. Good. Nice, that. Yo, I was gonna say that the light at the shim totally sucked, but I think it's just that I'm a fucking dough, because she looks great. You know what I mean? Like, I was just complaining about the light, but it's not the light, it's me. It's not you, it's me. I was wondering like, how much did your body's luxury during like all the time I've been on TV? In season. Yeah, almost, so. In terms of body weight. Like 10 pounds. 10 pounds? 10 to 12 pounds is what is what is healthy and standard. To where you have enough fat tissue in your body to be building good size, to be able to be pulling heavier weight in whatever you need to be doing, you know, in protecting your joints, et cetera. But you know, you shouldn't be gaining 20 pounds. Right. You know, I think that's a really. I think that's how many things that a lot of people make. Oh, 99 people who look like completely different in out of season that look and doughy and. Carol, I'll tell you why. It's because they don't have someone to build up their metabolism to sustain all this high amount of food during prep. So instead, these coaches just starve their athletes, and when they starve their athletes, what happens? The show's over, they just eat their face off, and they're not used to doing that. It's almost subconscious too, like you've been eating like so little and then you can't enjoy your hunger. Pork is too pained, which is not fair, because it's a great sport, we have such a great community, but it's just the fact that people lose their minds of how can you not, especially as a woman. You know, you look at yourself every freaking day, and you're like, how do you guys get to take it? Three, yep. Four. Third. Third. I can eat you. Relax. On the weight, come on. You got it. Yep. Third. Fourth. Yep. Nice. Three. Last one. I got you. Yep. Good, you got it. You're doing bicep growth. What? You were doing bicep growth. I think I was like, was I really weak on that second set? You know that heavier set we did? It's like, I think I was weak because I was spotting you guys, and then I was like, I don't think I had enough rest in between. Okay, how was the weight? Okay, let's sit. I usually stand, let's sit, I've stood my probably the last four years, and I realized when I'm hitting the 150s, like when I'm going like this, it's inevitable not to be attacking your low back here, and it's compressing your spine. If you can only sit, you can really just focus solely on the rear deck. So, one. Nice. I'm a huge different guy, that's a lot better. Two. Yep, and you don't even have to go back as far. Right there, stop. Good. Keep the tension right here. Here they are, here they are. Boom. Nice. Yep. All right, you're hitting 110. Boom. What was the case you gave me? Just like the setup on the machine, so it's like being really close to a pad, first thing, extending your arms, bending them and flaring them up a little bit, and then just going out, ghosting up instead of like trying to contract like your upper back to squeeze. Yep. So, it was a little higher on the hips, so you can always take advantage of essentially the new waist. Like, eventually, like when I'm on stage, I'll go like this. I'll stand in the typos like this. You know, my waist is smaller, I can still go like this, maybe it's a little smaller. Especially if you grab too low, you just see that? Yeah, you control it, exactly. So, you're here, grabbing with one hand, ladies quarter turn. Ladies quarter turn, nice, caps foot. Ladies quarter turn. Taking breaths in between. Yep, not forgetting about that back foot. Ladies, take the front. Exactly. And like your heels, we pivot your feet a little bit, I hold you back the whole time. Yep, yep, exactly. Stop, I know. Imagine when you're like definitely, I was telling about the Chicago Pro earlier, she goes like, she's floating, I'm like. Okay, so figure is remember, I told you everything's dead on, still quarter poses like that, ladies quarter turn. And you're gonna go from the front to the side, back to the side. And you're fucking gonna go over the last. You put your arms in. Cause you're a pixel, relax. All I want you to do is go like this, watch. Okay, see how it's like, look at my boobs. But you're gonna go from the front. Ladies quarter turn. Okay, here's the back pose. You're gonna do the same pose, you can't do it together, you set your boobs here. I mean you're all, obviously we do this on one, but just explaining it. You set your glutes, and then you push your glutes, and then you rise up your chest. But that will be your arm, your other leg. Ladies quarter turn. Face front. So you keep your palms up, the goalie just, and then go. Okay, that's a start. Okay, so that's the big pose. Now we just need to bring everything we have here forward. Okay, see there's your legs. Okay, don't let your arms control your legs, your legs control your arms, okay? There we go. Yep, stay right there. Perfect. She's gonna be like, it's gonna be fabulous. How am I gonna be fabulous? No, you said? Then you're gonna say, forget about wellness. I thought you said she's gonna be freaking fabulous. I got excited. Yeah, and that too. Okay.

=== FILE: 8x WORLD ARMWRESTLING CHAMP & BODYBUILDER LEARN HOW TO SUMO DEADLIFT ｜ KRISTEN NUN & SARAH BACKMAN [4s9ty-07nFY].txt ===

 Welcome to part two of this series. Today I'm going to teach a bodybuilder and an arm wrestler how to sumo deadlift. They're going to do great. They're athletes. Both of them are super athletic. So the thing with sumo deadlift is all proportions and leverage. For someone like you, you have long femurs and a short torso, which puts you in a weird position. Like, it doesn't mean that you're not going to be good at it. You might, but you're not going to look like me because you have very different proportions. So when you're here, like your butt is so far away from the bar, like you're almost like here. So, but ultimately the goal, like what I ideally would love to see someone doing this in a deadlift is to find a position where your hips can be as close to the bar as possible. So for me, it's here. Like, look, when I come down, I'm like right here. Like this would be an ideal position. Okay. See? Whereas if you're like here, you're here. Okay. Did you pull 400 like that? No. Okay. Yeah, I start changing at 315. I know. About, yeah. Your thing. You know, she's going to like wedge your hips to the bar. It's like a more close type of idea. It's like a C-song. So you love sumo. You essentially need to use your, the back of your body, so your butt and your legs against the bar. As if it's not as you saw, as if it's a jack. Okay. You put it under the car. So your butt is like the handle of the jack. Okay. And your hands are like wires that are just like attached to the bar. So when the jack goes down, the chest goes up. So good. That looks so good. Really? Yeah. Really good. Thank you. Whoever did conditionally just trained a different way or did you just 100% sumo as you say? I think I made the mistake of thinking that if I got stronger and more natural, I was going to translate into my sumo. Because you were working on muscles that are weaker or whatever. But honestly, that messed me up at the time. But I think the mistake I made was more like, I should have been practicing both, like in the same block. Maybe doing sumo just for technique like 6 to 10 reps and then conventional like pushing the lower reps for strength. But I totally like took sumo delips out of my program. So I ended up messing myself up. Yeah. Good job. Gotcha. You give yourself a position like there. I love how gentle you put it down each rep. Is that a thing? Or like that's how you train? No, it's more like a technique to like find your positions. Since I haven't done it in a long time, that's helpful for me. It gives me like a cue to where my body needs to be. No, it looks great. Yeah, that's why I'm asking. Other people just drop it and then start over. I find myself somewhere in the middle, but not that gentle. Yeah, go 25 because I think that would be a good jump for Kristin too. And since you haven't been training a ton, those small jumps are good for you too. So when is it simple to start using a belt in your opinion? Whenever you feel like you're doing it. Really? Like this, no, like roll in your household and not in the kitchen. That's the first pull? Yeah. Yeah. You're still surprising the barbell. Surprising it? Oh, surprisingly. Okay, I'm not taking out that tension yet. Exactly. Okay, because I feel like I might get to that point where if I take out that tension, I don't know, something makes me feel like I can't get it up. Maybe that's in my mind. How long do you think some of my bars will leave the floor? Like even at light weight? Like it takes me, I go solid two, three seconds where the bar actually starts moving. Okay. And in some cases, 10 seconds. That's impressive. I feel like I give it like two, three seconds and if it doesn't come up, I get pissed and you stop. You know, that's impressive. Yeah, that's amazing. Oh, thank you. Let's go Sarah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no more, no more, no more. I feel like you keep your head a lot closer. I don't know why, like, I mean, you guys do very well with that. I really want to like look at the sky. I was talking squat and deadlift to just keep on neutral. I don't know if it's true, but if your spine and your neck bone is, you know, like the same. If you do this and you lower back both of your legs. Yeah, yeah, it's just good. Yeah. Yeah. The other legs look great, so now you have to just like nail down all those details. So, remember your stance? So you're kind of like a little bit inside your wings, right? That's good. Yes. That's good. Two fingers on the gnarling on each hand. That's it. So you're sitting down way too much. Okay. I don't want to feel a little bit here. Yeah, there. And then start generating tension slowly instead of like yanking the bar. You're trying to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's me pulling it with a good amount of what I had. Yeah. And did it seem like that was correct? Yeah. I mean, you obviously have some stuff to work on. Yeah. Oh, for sure. Yeah. But I mean, it's a great starting point. It's a great starting point. You just have to rewire your brain for a new movement pattern. Correct. And if you have been practicing it that way, now you're going to have to do almost like double the amount of repetitions the right way to get it right. Okay. So the mistake that most people make is that they drop down the weight way too much to try to fix a particular technique pattern that they're doing wrong. And the reason why that's a mistake is because anyone can look good at lifting at 50%, but when it comes to strength, it's like, it's your, obviously your strength, but it's also your ability to maintain positions, which is neurologically regulated, right? Your movement patterns are ingrained in your brain. And so you can look great at 50%, 60%, 70% and like absolute shit at 90% and 100%. So usually the way that you train to improve your technique is going to something that's challenging, but not impossible to overcome. So like say 80%, 85% of your one rep max in practicing singles, like six, eight singles. So doing it once, walk away. Yeah. And then you rest for two minutes again, walk away until you feel like, you know, you're really nailing down that weight. And then maybe the following week you increase a little bit and do the same thing. Okay. And you can also practice with like lower percentages, which is also necessary to build volume and like really wire that kind of movement pattern. It's repetition, right? Like, like anything, like if you want to get better at this and it's like doing this a million times, but you got to do it right. It's not just practice. It's like practicing in the right way. Come on. Come on. It came up though, but you see, I could not pull. That's three, 95. No. He's three, 95. Three, 65. No. There are 45 pounds and there's three 45 plus three 15 plus 50, 13 plus 50. Look how clear we are. I'm sorry. I can't do is I want you to do a two second pause one inch off the ground. Like literally this far off the ground and hold it there for one, two, and then finish. One, two. One, two. Okay. One, two. Yep. How often during a week would you do a technique like that, that one pause up one inch thing? So that would be, you know, you could either do it after your heavy deadlift day or it could be an accessory deadlift day. So if you're, if you're first learning how to do a movement, I always recommend that you increase the frequency of the lift at a lower intensity. So you could deadlift three times a week if you wanted, just like keeping the intensity really low and practicing the technique and having one day a week where you push for like a five rep max or a three rep max for the day. And that way you get the best of both worlds. You get the frequent practice and then you also get the practice at high intensity. But again, it all depends on like what each person needs to work on, right? What's the answer? What do you want, man? You got to close out. I hate outros. Kind of. And okay, well, that was it for today. Taught them how to deadlift. They did amazingly. Sarah absolutely crushed it. Sarah, you have like 450 in you. Like not today, but you have 450 in you for sure. No, not today. But it was only because we were in a boat for 10 hours yesterday, dehydrating the shit out of ourselves. Yeah. Yo, I was still moving this morning. Like this. From the water? Yeah, I was still like this. I'm sorry. Well, I have to keep my patch on. Why? I kept mine on. Yeah, I was like, fuck no. Still dizzy. And really interesting. I mean, you both are super athletic and have a bright future in front of you. Still have a lot to learn. Some of that lift. I don't know. Anyway, hope you guys enjoyed this video. If you really like the video, hit the like button. If you really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really like this video. Subscribe to the channel. Hey, peace out my baby. Me too? Yup. Peace out my babies. That was so sad. Peace out my babies. Don't put that in. Bye.

=== FILE: BUILD HUGE CALVES ｜ BEST MOVEMENTS FOR HYPERTROPHY [UjjO5fEHKx8].txt ===

 What is going on, my babies? Welcome to another YouTube video. This is going to be a highly informative one, so sit down, relax, and enjoy. Today, we're going to be talking about calves and how to grow them, and I'm going to be dissecting the most recent literature so I can give you the best unbiased advice about how to grow your calves. In this video, we'll be going over the anatomy of the calf muscle complex, a little bit of biomechanics to help you with technique, and finally, my favorite exercise to target the calves and recommendations on how you can incorporate them into your workouts. If you're ready to get started, don't forget to like this video and leave a comment below with any questions that you might have after watching. If you missed part one, please head over to my Instagram page, add Steffi Cohen to watch the short video and answer a quiz for your chance to win some sick hybrid apparel. Let's start by looking at the anatomy of the calf muscle complex or triceps surrey. The calf muscle complex is composed of two main muscles. You have your gastronomias and the soleus. About 80% and 90% of us have also a third muscle known as the plantaris, but since the plantaris is believed to be largely vestigial from a functional standpoint, it is often lumped in with the gastrocnemius. The gastroc clearly steals a show as it creates the coveted diamond sweep in the lower leg that is the envy of millions. I will develop gastrocnemius test to the world. Hey, I've been blessed by the calf muscle gods with good genetics and probably at least a little bit fit too. This is a two joint muscle that spans both the knee and the ankle joint with its medial and lateral heads originating at the posterior aspects of the distal femur. It then coalesces with the soleus inferiorly to insert at the calcaneus or the heel bone via the achilles tendon. Due to its high density of fast twitch fibers, we depend on the gastric for rapid powerful contractions for explosive ankle plantar flexion, such as when we sprint or jump. Since it originates above the knee, it works with the hamstrings to flex and stabilize the knee joint as well. Next, we have the soleus. Deep to the gastroc is the less glamorous soleus muscle. And although you rarely hear about someone wanting to get a jacked soleus, it does play an important role in our ankle function. Unlike the gastroc, the soleus muscle fibers are largely slow twitch between 70 and 96%, making it more of a postural muscle that is resistant to fatigue. This design is perfect for activities that require more plantar flexion endurance, such as the cases of walking or jogging. As you can see, even though the gastroc and the soleus muscle lie very intimately with each other, they are vastly different in their qualities and characteristic. It's almost like the gastroc is the flashy superhero who gets all of the credit and the soleus is his trust ever dependable, but less celebrated sidekick. Now let's go full nerd and discuss the functions of these muscles by reviewing the biomechanics of the motion we will be hammering today, which is ankle plantar flexion. Plantar flexion is the action of raising your heels off the ground or pressing a gas pedal. When we do a standing heel race, we create a rare mechanical occurrence in the human body, a second class lever. As with all second class levers, ankle plantar flexion occurs with a load in the middle of the system. In case of a heel race, the load is our body weight. The effort or force factor shown here at the insertion of the cap muscle complex is on the other side of the load shown here at the first metacarpophyland g.l. joint, aka the ball of your foot. Imagine you're picking up a wheelbarrow full of bricks. That same mechanism is what's happening within your ankle and foot as you lift your heels off the ground. Don't worry, the physics lingo is almost over, so please stay with me. If you have ever felt the burn of a calf race in your foot muscles rather than in your calf muscles, this could be a sign that you aren't properly utilizing your second class lever. If you find this to be a barrier as you try out today's exercise, drop the weight a little bit or try some toe extension stretches. All right, let's train the calves. Set up. Since we want to maximize mechanical tension throughout the entire plantar flexion range of motion available to us, the exercise says we're going to do today. We're all be demonstrated with the toes elevated above the heels. We can do this by placing the forefoot on a raised surface like a block, a standboard or a weight plate. This allows the heel to drop past neutral at the bottom of the movement and provide extra stretch to the muscle fibers. Technique, let's go through it. If you've been training a calf for years to know a veil, I encourage you to revisit your technique. Pausing at the bottom and top of the movement and focusing on a slow, eccentric phase to maximize tension on the calf muscle complex is key. Hastefully pumping through your heel raises will not serve you well in the long run. So keep that in mind. Now let's talk about rep schemes. Think back to what we learned about the calf muscles in my first video first. Well, the gastroc thrives in an explosive fast switch environment. The soleus usually enjoys lower twitch endurance settings. This concept could be reflected in your rep schemes in that the soleus may handle higher rep ranges with lower loads and the gastroc may handle, may better handle lower rep ranges, but with higher loads. Since everyone has their own individual strength and limitations, I'd recommend that you start with a range of eight to 12 reps and listen to what the muscle is telling you to determine when to increase the reps and when to add resistance. When we reach the point of technical failure and can no longer isolate the calf muscles without compensation at the foot or knee, you found your sweet spot. Now let's start off sets. As in most cases of muscle hypertrophy, what we want to do is we want to maximize our accumulation of volume. Usually that means anywhere from three to six sets of an exercise per training session, depending on your training history. So start with fear and gradually increase your sets over several weeks. If you wake up the day after training calves and can't put your foot flat on the ground with our intense soreness, you've probably done too much. So scale it back a little so you can perform a calf workout two to four times per week. Keep in mind that this is not a metabolic conditioning workout. We don't want to rush or rest intervals at the expense of not being able to achieve our volume goals in the subsequent sets. 60 to 90 seconds of rest is pretty much a good place to start to allow your calves to recover before starting the next set without leaving reps on the table at the end of your workout. Now let's get deep into the exercises. Now it's important that we don't neglect the soleus muscle group. A lot of people tend to perform the bulk of their calf training standing up, but if we really, uh, mix both sitting and standing exercises, we can really maximize the shape of our calves. Since the soleus only crosses the ankle joint, it is a single joint muscle. This has led to the tradition of the soleus exercises being performed with any bends in order to decrease tension on the gas drug and more effectively bias the soleus, a concept known as active insufficiency. I do want to point out that research has shown that the soleus and gas drug don't simply turn on and off because the knees bent or straight. So even if you are doing calf exercises with the knee extended, the soleus is still helping out a little bit. For the seated heel raise, find a piece of selectorized equipment dedicated to this movement, but you can also set yourself up with a couple of dumbbells. Just place your forefeet on a block or plate and rest the dumbbells on your knees. Press the balls of your feet to raise the heels off the ground. Hold at the top, then slowly return to the starting position. If you're looking for something a little bit spicier that involves more than just the calf muscles, do the same exercise in a squat position. You can use a rig to help you balance, squat down to parallel and hold an isometric squat as you raise the heels off the ground. Soleus exercise number two is a single leg strength drill. When you are standing on one leg, the muscle that crosses the ankles have to contract to keep the joint stable. And the soleus is no different. When the knee travels forward over the toes, the soleus eccentrically contracts to ensure that the knee translates anteriorly with control. As you come back up to standing, the soleus concentrically contracts to bring the tibia back to vertical. So when you are doing a compound single leg strength movement, like the skater squat, pistol squat, Bulgarian split squats and single leg deadlifts, your soleus is hard at work as it helps you maintain your balance. Soleus exercise number three, walk it out. Unlike its counterpart, the soleus muscle is a partial muscle with a higher proportion of type one fibers, meaning that is great for lower intensity, longer duration activities that require muscle endurance. That's why simply going out for a jog or run can gas up the soleus. So slap on your fit fit and get those steps in. Now that we're done with that, let's talk about the gastroc. With exercise number one, the standing heel raise. Take balance out of the equation by using one hand or a bench or a rig. Instead of doing the heel raises you've been doing for years, switch it up and target each head of the gastronemius by adjusting your toe position. Turning the toes out during a heel raise may increase muscle activity in the medial head of the gastroc. Bilateral toes in heel raise. On the other hand, turning the toes in or going pigeon toad can bias the lateral head of the gastroc. After doing one set of each toes out toes in, finish it off with a burn off set of neutral heel raises, which presumably activates both gastroc heads nearly equally. The reason evidence behind toes out versus toes in has been contradictory on this topic, meaning that changing foot position does not consistently lead to increase muscle activity in the corresponding muscle heads in the research. However, I encourage you to try it out and see how it feels for you. Let's go on to gastroc exercise number two, the donkey heel raise. This is usually performed in a hip hinge position with the upper body supported, which further takes balance out of the equation. It's a pretty old school bodybuilding exercise that isn't commonly utilized anymore. This lift could be very useful for people with stubborn calves, especially those who tend to feel their foot muscles fatiguing during the heel raises by helping them hone in on the fulcrum point at the ball of the foot and increase great toe extension due to the forward shift of center of mass. If you don't have a donkey heel raise machine at your disposal, get creative in setting up this exercise. Gastroc exercise number three, single leg heel raise. Performing a single leg heel raise is a great way to progress the exercise while facilitating symmetrical strength and size. If performing a typical heel raise is too much of a challenge for you at this point and you're unable to feel a strong contraction in the targeted calf region, try some of these progress regressions. Example number one, eccentric single leg heel raise. Perform a double heel raise on a standing surface and pause at the top. Shift all your weight to one leg and allow the ankle to slowly lower to the starting position. Pause at the bottom, then reposition the opposite leg of the helping leg to repeat the motion. Gastroc exercise number four, jumping and sprinting. Remember how the gastronemius has slightly more fast-switch type two fibers than the soleus by incorporating high velocity, higher intensity movements like double and single leg plyometric drills and sprints. The gastroc muscles gets a chance to show off its explosiveness or lack thereof. For those of you who have been collecting this type of training, it's important to ease into plyometrics and sprinting to avoid overuse injuries. Start off nice and easy one or two times per week with drills like jumping rope and broad jumps or sprints. Do you have to do every single one of these exercises? Of course not. Pick three or four of your favorites that help you feel a true calf muscle contraction and add them to your workout routine, as suggested earlier in the video. If plyometric and sprint training isn't up your alley, then don't worry. You've got plenty of options to choose from to find what exercises work best for you. Here's my last prologue wisdom. Be patient. Muscle building takes time, takes weeks, months, even years to build. So prioritize technique while progressive overloading these movements and find a way to track your progress over time. Use a tape measure so that you can appreciate every inch and centimeter of hard work mass that you've gained so you can keep pushing forward with determination. Remember, you're in this for the long haul. So no more hashtag team, no caps. I hope you guys found my definitive guide to growing your caps helpful. Our hybrid education team is dedicated to providing you with high quality, evidence based approaches to training and nutrition. So give us a like below if you like more content like this. Please head over to hybridperformancemethod.com and snag a training and nutrition program for all your training and nutrition needs. And after you've done that and you want to look extra good when you're going to the gym to do exercise, then you better go to hybridapparel.store to snag the sickest apparel in the game so that not only you look good while you're training, but also people can tell that you know what you're doing because of what you're wearing because that's that's what I what it means. All right. I hope you guys enjoyed. Don't catch you guys next time. Peace. Bye.

=== FILE: Daily Nutrition For Cutting and How Losing Weight Actually Works ｜ Quick Tips [oecGp13Q9lA].txt ===

 Today we're going to be going over daily nutrition for cutting. Now, the first thing that you have to have in mind, have to keep in mind, is that the main rule when it comes to weight loss and fat loss is being in a calorie deficit. So, in order for you to find out how many calories you need to be consuming in order to be in a calorie deficit, you can either use a calorie calculator online or you can go by trial and error. But the most important thing is that you have some sort of data you can reference back to so you can make the changes that you need to make in order to get the results that you want. If you have the formula and you have the amount of calories you need to be eating, next step is weighing yourself every day and seeing how your calorie consumption equates to your weight loss, weight gain, or maintenance. So, you have to see, you have to be able to reference back to the scale to see if what you're doing is working. If it's not, the scale is not moving, you have to reduce your calorie intake or increase the amount of exercise that you do in a day or increase the amount of movement that you do in a day, via walking more, fidgeting more, stepping more, getting up more during the day. So, those are the two parts of the equation that you really got to control. How much energy is coming in, how much energy is going out. And not necessarily from a very specific standpoint, but just being mindful of those things so that you can make the changes that you need. Now that we have that out of the way, let's talk about specific diet advice. You know, I am a big proponent in making sure that the diet that you choose fits your lifestyle and your food preferences more than you picking a diet at random. That's most likely a fat diet and not being able to stick to it because either your lifestyle doesn't align with it either because you're starting to crave certain foods that you've purposefully removed from your diet in order to adhere to this one particular method. So, rather than doing that, you want to optimize your environment, you want to optimize, you want to choose a diet that is in line with what you can do and with what you like. Because ultimately, the most important thing when it comes to weight loss, like I said, is the overall amount of calories that you're putting inside of your body. So, a lot of people, a lot of people ask themselves whether or not they can lose weight and eat dessert or whether or not they can lose weight and drink a glass of wine or have a cheat meal or eat a burger here and there. And the answer is yes, you can as long as you take into account the overall amount of calories that you're consuming in a day. In fact, there's research that shows that when we control all of the calories that go in, so there was a group of athletes that was kept in a lab for a week and they were given nothing but junk food, I think it was McDonald's, nothing but junk food. And at the end, but still in a calorie deficit and at the end of the week, they all lost weight and they improved all their blood markers. So, we know that as long as we adhere to being in a calorie deficit, that's the most important thing. So, what are some of the things that you can do in order to stay in a calorie deficit? Walk more, eat protein with all of your meals, drink enough water, be okay with being hungry and change the way that your kitchen is arranged so that you don't have the temptation or the easiness of reaching out for those things that are likely to put you to tip you off and take you out of being in a calorie deficit. Now that we have that out of the way, let's take a look at what's inside my kitchen and what a day in my life of eating looks like. So, I feel like I have to explain myself as to why all of my meals are frozen, prepackaged. I'm not much of a cook myself. I can cook, okay? I can do it. If I wanted to, if I put my mind to it, I could do it, all right? Let me just get that out of the way. And in fact, hey, Hayden can tell you that I cook pretty good, especially Venezuelan food. Oh my god. So, American breakfast, we're going to start with 320 calories, 25 grams of protein, 23 grams of carbs, 14 grams of fat, 3 grams of fiber, 500 milligrams of sodium. Pretty solid breakfast if you ask me. Really good side of the day. All right. So, for lunch, we're going to have bison patties. These patties are four ounces each. So, it's a pretty good portion. It's about 30 grams of, or sorry, 25 grams of protein per patty. Makes it solid. Probably have two of those for lunch. Gonna pair that with some rice and vegetables. Okay. Then for dinner, gonna have shredded chicken. Probably gonna saute this with some soy sauce and this zucchini. And for carbs, we're gonna have some sweet potato. I'm gonna add to this meal also a couple hard boiled eggs to increase the amount of fat content in the meal because the chicken breast doesn't have much. So, I want to make sure that I'm consuming at least 20 to 30 percent of my total daily calorie intake in the form of fats just for performance, health benefits. Usually, dinner, I break it down into a three course meal that I have across the entire night. So, starting at 6 p.m. that's the first course. So, that's gonna be the chicken veggies and potatoes and eggs. And then likely, I'll have something like a pizza, you know, but not your average greasy New York pizza. I'm gonna have this pizza that look how thin it is. It's a super thin cross pizza. It really isn't greasy at all. Yeah. Is it, am I gonna be estimating more than usual? How many calories there are in here? Yes. Is it the end of the world? No, for some it might be, not for me. But I trust that by the end of the day, I'm, I still under eight comparatively to the amount of exercise that I do in a day. So, I'm pretty confident that I can have, you know, a treat or two at the end of the day if I'm still hungry. That's my daily nutrition for wake cod. If you have any questions, please feel free to drop it down below. I'll do my best to get back to every one of you. Don't forget to subscribe to this channel. And as always, thank you guys for your support. Thank you guys for watching and I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: Do You Need To Lift Heavy Weights To Get Big Muscles？ ｜ Quick Tips [nqbUSRXWEJc].txt ===

 what's going on everyone? Today we're gonna clear up some misconceptions regarding strength and hypertrophy. There seems to be a lot of misunderstanding regarding whether you need to lift really heavy weights in order to get bigger muscles, or if you can lift light weights and still get big muscles. The truth is, the answer lies somewhere in between, and that's what we're gonna be exploring today. So which comes first? Strength or hypertrophy? It's like the question of the chicken or the egg. This question has plagued bro scientists for ages. A lot of people try to improve their way they look by gaining muscle and losing fat, but not everyone appreciates the role that strength plays in that equation. So, what exactly? Let's talk about that. Hypertrophy is muscle growth in response to working against forces that we're not used to. In order to stimulate this, we need to be strong enough to challenge the working muscle. Specifically, those large fibers that are only recruited when high forces are required. We find those high forces with relatively heavy weights, or when fatigue has exhausted all of the other smaller fibers. So where does strength come in? We need to build strength in order to reach those large fibers that grow in response to training. That's why beginners can see rapid strength development without much hypertrophy in the first few weeks of training. As a muscle adapts, force production improves, you need to keep using heavier and heavier weights over time. You can't totally separate strength from hypertrophy since we need more force over time in order to continue stimulating muscle growth. So in turn, hypertrophy augments strength since a bigger muscle has the potential to become a stronger muscle. The take-home message is that if you're training to lose fat and build muscle but you don't emphasize strength development, you're missing an important piece of the body composition puzzle. I hope this clears it up and you got something from it. As always, if you have any questions, drop them down below and see you guys next time. Bye!

=== FILE: Five Bodybuilding Movements To Get Huge Legs ｜ Workout Ideas ｜ Ft Valentina Lequeux [tt4kJEVa2Ac].txt ===

 doesn't think about bodybuilding. It's that you have to embrace that pain and that burn, you know? But that your initial reaction is you want to stop, but actually in bodybuilding that's where you have to keep going. So the plan is for the next little while. Two leg workouts a day, two upper body workouts a week, sorry, a day. Two lower body workouts a week, two upper body workouts a week, two or three boxing sessions a week. That's the plan. Oh, I'm training. Yeah, we're getting in shape, my babies. Mommy's coming back, daddy's coming back. You hear me? You weren't there the day that I filmed with Dylan Armbrest, the owner of Armbrestim. We did a leg workout, so I'm going to take a bunch of stuff that we did that day and do them today. It was an epic session. It was so good. So we started with 50. What? Just one half? Okay. You know, that's my brother. They burn, my babies. Burn is real. You have to embrace that pain and that burn, you know, but that your initial reaction is you want to stop, but actually in bodybuilding that's where you have to keep going. Yeah. So it's interesting. It's like a pain tolerance thing really, like how much discomfort can you tolerate? Yeah. Where do you think you lay on that? Um, I mean, I think it's, it's, there's a learning curve. I think I'm, I'm getting better. I'm getting to like understand when I need to continue pushing and when I need to like take a step back because it's very different from strength training. And that's, that's what I'm struggling with the most right now. It's like, am I training hard enough? Am I pushing myself hard enough? How many sets do I need to be doing? Should I do an extra set? Should I do five, six, seven sets? Should I put the weight up, down, you know, because the intensity and the feel is a lot different from strength training, which is what I've been doing for eight years. Yeah. Wait. No, you gotta think of something. Let it pump you. You were going to pump it, but my pump it. All right, so, so, so, so, so. Oh, my God. Maybe they started it, but never. I'm perfect. Now everyone has to wear a mask. You think y'all make one of these? How do you feel now? How do you feel? We started, we started it. Elevation mask. Elevation mask work. We should start on the bridge and carry you around that. That's what's interesting about a lot of, in the PT world, there's so much debate around being able to isolate certain body parts, certain muscle groups that are all innervated by the same nerve. So like there's this huge controversy around the quad. They're all innervated by the femoral nerve. And I remember a while ago, I made a post about how to target the VMO and it was a series of exercises and I got slammed, gunked by the PT community because they're like, no, you can't isolate the VMO. The truth is, there's more to just nerves and muscles when it comes to the human body and growing a body part. Things like muscle fiber alignment. It's like the line of pull where those fibers are oriented. How do they attach in your body? Like what are your proportions? This is the other thing that I picked up from like other bodybuilders, especially I think like the OGs. More like, you know, the older guys, Ben and Dylan, are really beginning to stretching. Flexibility training with bodybuilding, like for the purpose of both being able to grow the muscle part and also for longevity. You know, I think, honestly, like flexibility training within the art community has become so not taboo. What's what I'm looking for? Like, it's like embarrassing to do yoga or stretch or whatnot. Like it's seen as like, I don't know, like a sissy thing to do. But it's necessary. Trust me, like I neglected it for so long and then I started feeling like a tin can. What you needed for powerlifting? You need a certain amount of mobility, but like even then, you know, you just become mobile in the position, say you're training and then what about the rest of the stuff? Like literally just like something as simple as putting your shoes on, you start being unable to do. That's kind of lame. When are you ever like this? Look at this flexibility. Yes, this is a flex. You're a yoga master. This is a flex. Like I know people are watching you right now and are being like, damn, I wish I could fucking do that. Dude, I know I like I need to control it more to get more out of it, but it's fucked up. Like I know for sure that I should have been doing much slower reps. Are you still working with Ben? Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, I don't have a plan yet. He's waiting for me to go up to Tampa so he can see me for a full week. Oh, okay. And then like figure out what I need. That's the thing with bodybuilding. It's like it needs to be specific to what the person needs. If you're going to get judged, if you want to just grow, like it doesn't really matter, but because bodybuilding is all about proportions, it does matter, right? Like what do I need more? Do I need to grow my the sides of my glutes? Do I need to grow my BMO? Do I need a more like tapered waist and bigger shoulders? It depends, right? And that's what the plan is going to account for. It's like all proportions. Oh, you need to grow your lats more. You need to learn how to activate them. You need to. Like out of curiosity, because you're a PC and shit, could that be bad for your health? Like let's say like you grow a muscle bigger than the other and like the light another will get smaller or whatever. I mean, look, anything that you're doing in extremes, like anything you do competitively, it's not going to be health. Yeah, that's true. You know, but like in terms of muscular imbalances and that shit, no, no, I don't think so. No, I really don't think so. If anything's good, dude, I, my back feels the best as I've ever felt. Yeah. Yeah, it's almost like, remember what I was telling you about sensitizing your body, like if you have a chronic pain, you need to progressively expose rated exposure. You need to progressively expose yourself to the painful movement or stimulus in order to convince your brain that it's safe, that it's not being threatened. And so it's almost like, dude, it sounds cheesy, but it takes courage to be able to push past that point. So my last body but leg, leg session, we squat it. And after I squatted a plate for 10, my back was bugging me a lot. And I was like, you know what, like if my back is actually bugged, what am I going to bug it up more? You know what, I don't care. So I slapped another plate and did 10 reps and it hurt like, motherfucker. And then after that, it felt fine. Really? Yeah. And since then, it's felt really good. How do you feel? How do you feel? Like 100 pounds. Like what? You know what? 100 pounds. On each side. Why? Why? So, three exhausted sets. Good for me at this point because you know, I'm a part of this. It's hard for me to remove my ego and not lift heavy. But how long have we been here? Like we've been doing like for an hour and a half. About an hour? Like one of the seconds, the last exercise of the day. So no matter how much will, I have to put three plates on the bars. It's just not going to happen. I've been smashing my legs for an hour and a half. So three exhausted sets are a good way for you to modulate the load. Make sure you're not pushing. You're not pushing that too high, but you're exerting yourself and demanding a lot of yourself. Still like pushing the intensity high, but relative to what you're capable of after doing all of that. So one full round is there and back with weights and then there and back without weights. That's one round. Okay. Three. She still doesn't know. All right. Great workout brought to you by Domenna Arm Brass. I copied our entire section because I felt like I needed to be documented. It was such a good workout. Don't do it if you're a coward. That's all I have to say. You know, if you're a coward, don't even try to do it because you're not going to make it. Anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed this workout. They would have shot. Try this out. Tag me if you do and Valentina. And if you really liked this video, hit the like button. If you really really really really really really really really really really really really like this video, subscribe to this channel. Okay, thank you guys for watching. I'll catch you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: Full Body High Intensity Conditioning Workout ｜ Workouts With Stefi Cohen [eDwxapbWTL8].txt ===

 Yo, check this one out. It's pretty cool. Okay, sorry, it's a sorry duck. She just wanna cut up in the car, told her to start it up. I don't wanna see it from your eyes unless it's car to yet. Ran into my old chick, she said you ain't playing fair. Playing fair, playing fair. Nah, I ain't playing fair, playing fair, playing fair. Nah, I ain't playing fair. Asked her why she's staying there, she said she don't know. Hello, my babies. Welcome to another YouTube video. Today, we're here in Switzerland, and I'm gonna take you guys through a conditioning session after boxing. So now, I'm gonna do a typical circuit session. So it's gonna be four main moves, and we're gonna start with a hammer, slam on the tire, med ball, slams on the floor, battle ropes, and jumps. So we're gonna be in four moments that we're gonna do each station for 30 seconds with no rest in between. And then we're gonna have one minute rest in between each round. So one round has all four exercises, 30 seconds for exercise, one minute rest for each round. We're gonna do that four times. So I always come up with the amount of rounds before I start the workout, and then from the middle of the workout, I regret so much how many rounds I did initially, because I'm so stubborn. I stick to it no matter what, and I make everybody stick to it, even if it's not gonna make any sense or even if it's horribly painful. So let's see how this goes. If you dare to do it, try it out. Let's go. I'm a nightland boy. Bro, if that's not famous, I don't know how. You're not that nice. You're famous? I'm gonna get you. Cold girls. You should. You should. You should. You should. You're from Florida. It's like basic attire there, especially in Broward. It feels nice. You got three seconds. Two, one, you're done. You know, coldness is known as the alien term. By your grandpa and your mom's side. But, by what? I throw that. By your grandpa. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. I throw that. If you know the answer, put it in the comment section. 15. 10. 10. 2, 1. 10. 10. 10. 10. What are the facts you got? You know, dad, there's a reason why we're tears with each other. It's because we work the whole time to make sure that... people weren't putting poison on another person's drink. So that everybody with tears, that everybody would have some of their drinks on the other person's cup. That's genius. 15. These pictures will be cool here. Very cool. Stop! You're done. You're fine. You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? You wanna go to school? The teacher of the earth is ready to go up in the next few years to grow that one early. You're halfway? This is the worst one. Five seconds. And you're done. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're halfway. You're done. He's a hot dog or a sandwich? Why or why not? He's a because it's surrounded by basically two sides of bread and it has a vessel to carry other stuff. The hot dog is like the ham. Why are we making peanut butter jelly sandwiches with hot dog bread? Yo, a peanut butter jelly sausage. Dude. Kind of like cold so it keeps the shape. It keeps the shape and all you do is put it in between a hot dog BUN. Dude, that's it. I'm not putting this in the video. Halfway. Five seconds. And you're done. Halfway. Halfway. Five seconds. And you're done. What? They give you artificial rain. When they celebrate a conversation in the clouds, they send a drone up in the air and they increase the humidity of that cloud. And then, ah, they make it rain. They use that during COVID a lot to give people an endorsement. They wouldn't make it rain? Yeah. Halfway. Five seconds. Done. Anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed. If you dare try this workout, it'll absolutely kick the shit out of you. If not, if you have any questions, comments, concerns, please leave them down below. Let's chat in the comment section. Make sure you like this video, subscribe to the channel, and I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: Here's What My Training Has Been Looking Like Ft  Paige Vanzant & Dr. Pedro Diaz [s8PL_VbDQEU].txt ===

 parentheses Welcome back. So yeah, we're here in Vegas for our training camp today's Sunday, which means it's Lazy Sunday actually, national weekly holiday as you all know, actually front upon and prohibited to do any activities that are inconsistent with the regulations of Lazy Sunday. Absolutely not any sort of intellectual conversations. Absolutely no work of any kind. In fact, I'm violating my own rule right now. Violating my own rule my babies, but it's for you. Yeah, so I've been training at this gym when I'm boxing with Dr. Pedro Diaz. He's written a bunch of books and Super Smart Guy, you know, one of the most famous boxing coaches in Florida. Been training, been coaching for over 40 years, has developed many, many, many professional boxers in his career and just has an insane amount of knowledge. Yeah, so it's pretty cool. I mean, what I like the most about going to train there is the environment. It's nice to be able to, one, not suffer alone when you're doing very difficult training sessions and two, it almost rubs off on you when you're training around people who have the same goals and the same mentality as you. My training partner is Paige VanSant. You might recognize her from the UFC. She fought there for many years. And yeah, so she's been training with Pedro as well and we've been training with each other almost every day. And we worked on close distance boxing, a lot of different situations on the ropes. And then we did a bunch of random shit. Yeah, like a bunch of different conditioning drills on the tires. I don't know what else. We did a bunch of stuff. That was like a three hour and a half training session. It's nice to be able to share that with someone who is as disciplined and as committed and as hard working as I am. And yeah, it just makes the whole process a lot more enjoyable. I had a friend in town, Jason. He's a pro bodybuilder. He's not competing anymore, I don't think, or for now, but he jumped in our session with us. We had a, was it a lower body day? Yeah, it was a lower body day. We squatted. There was pin squats, jumps, low jumps, jump to the bannerman double jumps, lunges, hamstring curls, reverse back extensions, step ups, net ball. Yeah, let's go. Cool. Most challenging part about the entire transition from barlifting and to boxing has been accepting the loss of strength. That, I mean, I'm still moving three plates in squat, four plates in deadlift, about like 80, 90 kilos in bench. It's not terrible, but you know. It's not what it used to be. Yeah. But yeah. It is. I'm not a barlicker right now. Yeah, so honestly, the only person I would trust with my conditioning program for something this important is my best friend, Jordan, Dr. Jordan Shalo. Shout out. I love you so much. Thank you so much for helping me. So yeah, he's been writing my program. Honestly, he's just one of the smartest people that I know. And just his knowledge is so in-depth and he's so critical when it comes to thinking about the hows and whys and selecting exercises that each single exercise that he chooses has a very specific purpose. There's no fluff in the program. There's no, hey, just going to do this because it looks nice. It looks pretty. It gets your heart rate up. No. Every single exercise is thought of and it has a purpose and it has a reason for why it's there. So I'm lucky that I get to pick his brain and that I get to have him in my corner writing one of the most important parts of my program. Yeah, happy that I get to share with you guys this journey. And you know, I hope that this interests you kind of what I've been doing with my training on the day today. It's very different to maybe the reason why most of you started or subscribed to this YouTube channel and surely was a purely powerlifting, strengthening channel and now, you know, moving on to boxing. So hopefully you guys are enjoying the journey. I'm enjoying it a lot and I would love to continue sharing and I would love for you guys to support me and come to my fights. And yeah, as always, I appreciate you guys support. If you guys are looking for strength training programs or nutrition coaching, please head over to hybridperformancemethod.com where you can find the best strength coaches and nutrition coaches in the game. Also if you want to look extremely and when I say extremely is I'm talking about the highest level of swag, highest level of swag, you will never, never look swagger than if you head out to hybridlegacybrand.com and purchase everything. In fact, you guys are going to get a sneak peek of this super dope shirt, the hybrid fight club t-shirt and this dope ad that my man, Cesar Lorca, made. So check it out. I've been fighting since I was a kid. The feeling I get, it's hard to explain. It's all I know. Wake up. Hey, wake up. Boom. Welcome back. Anyway, thank you guys for watching. Love you guys. See you next time.

=== FILE: Heres How My Lazy Sunday Became Crazy Sunday... One Chip Challenge [XfOHDukz8XY].txt ===

 during this time of the lazy Sunday thing, huh? Yeah. Lazy Sunday. Yeah. Welcome to Lazy Sunday. It is, in fact, Sunday, and it is, in fact, going to be a lazy one, because this is what we do. This is what we do every Sunday. It's the only day of the week where I can say to everyone, to the world, fuck right off. So today is the day for me to relax. And as always, Lazy Sunday starts with amazing coffee. Lucky for me, this video was sponsored by Trade Coffee. And before we start the video, I want to tell you a little bit about what their services are. So with Trade, essentially, it allows you to discover new coffee flavors based on the nation's best roasters. You'll get to, essentially, what they do is that they match your selections based on what your preferences are after taking an easy quiz. What is your coffee experience level? Pretty advanced. How do you make coffee at home? Let's do French press. Do you add anything to your coffee? Usually milk or cream, brewing up your match. And then they give you all of these different options. And you can cancel anytime. And they start delivering based on how often you want it to be delivered at your door. So that's it. So after you've gotten your coffee, you try your coffee, then you go in and you rate it so that way they can use their software to continue suggesting blends that you are most likely to enjoy. So if you like this type of service, make sure that you click the link below to get 30% off your next trade order. Now let's continue on with Lazy Sunday. You know what? You know how like, at least for me, I enjoy being lazy more when I feel like I've earned being lazy, the being lazy award. A few minutes for Dexter to catch on to what we're doing, like what kind of activity this is. They're using these little crazy. And then I think you get it. I'm Mike Tyson. I'm Mike Tyson. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. That's solid. Have you guys seen my pancake? So this is the pancake, not the pancake, the pancake. Look, we got an old school. It's pretty dope. For when the round's about to end. Pretty cool, huh? I think it's honestly like such a good machine for a small area because it's kind of like a step or elliptical that makes me think it too. Got Bobby Orr, Muhammad Ali, Jordan, Debra Tyson, Arnold. Arnold? Arnold. And a cute picture of a baby in the old times. For no reason at all just because I thought it was cute. It's time to take a bite of these kids. Delicious. I love it. Lazy Sunday, lazy Sunday. Six and a half hours later. Hey, Steph, what part of a lazy Sunday is this? I think she's sleeping. Do you imagine, dude, someone buys a dance for me and I'm like... So it's gonna be a conditioning workout. We're gonna go 30 seconds on... 30 seconds on... 10 seconds off... reach... 30 seconds off... Dude, you're actually not really be part of the lazy Sunday. I was feeling sexy, I was feeling lean. So I was like, you know why not? Let's just do a quick roof step photo shoot. I'm gonna rumble it up. Steph. Yeah? I gotta get down. What's next? What's next? What time is it? 3. 3, so now we gotta go to the gym to show support. There's actually a USDW National's happening on Zoom this year which is fucking crazy. So we have a couple people competing there so we're gonna go here and watch. Get up! Come on! Are you sweating? This makes you sweat every time. And I'm watching the video max out. All snap and jerk. Hello friends and welcome to another episode of Hybrid Unlimited. This is me Steph Econ. Hey, hello. And today we have the pleasure of sitting down with Alex Hussler. Welcome back. Alex, it's been a while. He's a COVID survivor. We're saying that if the Olympics were created today, they'll not be able to pass the regulations because the regulations are so old that nowadays will not be accepted, you know. That's a good one. I'm starving. I ordered a whole other round of pizza because they ate it all. They ate all those pizzas? I feel like for me it's different when I get into a gold plunge because the gold plunge you were reading in my mind, you know, like fuck, it's gonna suck, you know. But when the pool is like, I still somehow expect that when I'm getting it, it's like, look warm. But this pool is not tempered or tempered? Temperature? Regulated? Temperature? I'm okay! I'm okay! You're gonna run into a dog here. Careful with your head. You're saying that the more you run like the lower, you don't have any tension. Oh. Physics. What the fuck? Well, I pinged that bro. Well, I pinged that. I'm stuck on this. You have to run the opposite. Yeah. Oh, that's better. You don't get enough of a sexy hair shot. Oh, there's a floating talk of a hiding. Alright, ready? I'm gonna feed it to you. For real? Yeah, you wanna just push it out? I don't have a machine no one finish it, bro. No, everyone finish it, bro. For real? Yeah. The problem is not, the problem is not eating it, it's athlete. Athlete, it's like when you eat, it's better. No. No, don't have the whole thing. No, don't be a pussy. Let him do it. I said no. I shit got in my eye, bro. Already? Yeah. I eat the whole thing, go. Go. Eat the whole thing, go. Eat the whole thing. No, eat the whole thing. You better eat it all at the same time, because it's gonna make it worse. Yeah, you can't. No, don't do that. A whole thing. Open your mouth. All of it. Someone started a timer. Timer, timer. Timer, don't laugh like that. Wow, I think he's gonna be getting better. He's already better. That's already better. Bro, relax, relax. It's not even that bad. You're on the lines, you're on the lines. It's not even that bad yet. It's fucking bad, bro. That lasted for five minutes. You're only 45 seconds left. Holy shit. Oh, that's significant. That's significant. Don't cheat. Don't cheat. Dive the clock over again. Yeah, let's not even have a... You have to... Yeah, yeah, bro. You have to snort it. Why'd you have to put the milk in front of the cup? You can't be... You can't be serious. You can fuck with serious. How are you feeling, people? How does it feel? Cause I'm not gonna eat this. Like I'm stupider than my mom used to tell me I was. It's been a weird day. Oh, you're coming, right? It's been a weird day. Well, I hope you enjoyed... Not so typical lazy Sunday. It was not a lazy Sunday. It was not lazy at all. Not so ever. It was a very productive Sunday. It was not lazy at all. It was a very productive Sunday. It was a very busy Sunday. Not lazy at all. Started lazy and then... Got wild. Got wild. Yeah. So anyway, and thank you for watching. Thank you for your support. I'll catch you guys on the next video. Peace. Bye. Bye.

=== FILE: How To GROW Your Hamstrings The Right Way ｜ Quick Tips With Stefi Cohen [xx3A5z9ULyk].txt ===

 If you're a trainer, you've probably said it, and if you're an athlete, you've probably heard it. Keep the weight close to your body. That is a very common cue used for many exercises, including Olympic lifts and deadlifts, both sumo and conventional. This probably is why I get an uproar of questions and concerns anytime I post a video of me doing an RDL or any other movement that allows the weight to travel farther away from my body. Now, listen up, there's a method to the madness. Keep in mind that training for pure strength and training to isolate a specific muscle group are two completely different things. When we're trying to move a weight from point A to point B with the highest level of mechanical efficiency, of course we want to keep the bar or the weight close, so close that you might turn loose some skin over the matter. We want to use mechanical advantages to leverage our weight against that of the barbell, and a slight deviation from a vertical bar-bath could sabotage the entire lift. On the other hand, if you want to intentionally target a muscle and put as much tension on it as possible, we should actually try to put it at a mechanical disadvantage by moving the dumbbells slightly away from our center of mass, which is going to increase the distance between the weight and the joint, in this case causing the hamstrings and glutes to contract harder to control the hip-hingeing movement. In earlier terms, I'm increasing the lever arm by moving the resistance further away from the axis of rotation, in this case the hip, leading to increased torque in the hip-exensor muscles. I usually aim to keep the dumbbells hovering just over my forefoot, like this, because this equals more torque and stress in the muscles, which in the long run will lead to more growth and more strength. Something else I want to address with the RDL is changing your ankle position. We'll often see lifters and body builders and power lifters including myself, elevating their toes in order to increase dorsiflexion. This adjustment facilitates increased hip dominance of the already hip-focused exercise by putting the calf muscle on a stretch, which further restricts knee flexion. Hopefully you regal the hamstrings, our two joint muscle groups, so we can impart more tension onto them and further put them at a disadvantage with simultaneous knee extension and hip flexion without having to lock out the knees completely. Now what you want to feel with this movement is a deep but tolerable hamstring stretch at the bottom of the exercise. So when it comes to getting bigger and stronger, muscle tension is good, but neural tension is not so good, so perform the toes elevated RDL without comfortably uncomfortable range and over time you'll not only see strength inside size gains in your hand pops, but you may also be able to access new ranges of motion, especially if you're a ten-man who can't touch his toes or her toes with ease. If you want to blow up your ham is, ham is in a good way, try this style of RDL and let me know how it goes. Please answer the three next questions on the screen. Please share this video, comment on this video so we can continue making these high quality content for you guys. As always, thank you so much for your support, it means the world to me and I'll catch you guys next time. Peace.

=== FILE: I Won My Third Fight Ever In My Home Town ｜ Stefi Cohen Full Fight [2koSPhJtjkA].txt ===

! I'm going to see her. Even on my day, I have to point that thing out. So she paid me to do it. Yeah, so, I'm in Miami. It's a nice venue. Pretty much all my friends live here. This is exciting. I'm going to see her tonight for 8-5 cataplyne. Oh, so you're like sick and a last? Yeah, I'm excited. I just want to go in and enjoy and be able to showcase everything that I've been working on. I'm going to go inside. I'm going to take you to a spider now. From camp to camp, that's where I'm going to be. I'm going to be in the last vloggers and I'm going to start the show. I'm going to be in the last vloggers. Yeah, not out there. If it happened out there, it would have become a view. It has to be that good. I'm going to go get him. I'm going to show you what I've ever seen. Hell yeah. And now, her opponent from Miami, Florida, making her next fight at home. She is Stephanie Cohen. Give it up. Give it up. Strong Miami for your own. The first professional fight for Stephanie Cohen and her first here in her hometown of Miami. Actually her first fight in the United States, she fought in the Dominican Republic, she fought in Dubai, and now at home in Miami in her third professional fight against a very experienced ring veteran in Carla Valenzuela. Very curious to see what this does, because we've talked to Steffi before, we've been on the Mundo Boxing podcast together, and there's such a competitive fire with Steffi. We talked about it in the show open, I mean, Steffi was an accomplished soccer player for the, I mean, could've been on the Venezuela national team. Yeah. Came here, found powerlifting is a 25 time world record holder in powerlifting. First woman to powerlift over four and a half times her own body weight. And then all right, I conquered that, I conquered that, and now I'm gonna go get in the ring. And away we go against Carla Valenzuela, La Princesa against Steffi. It just shows you the continuous drive and she starts off strong. Yeah, scheduled for four rounds, it's two minute rounds in the Bantamweight division. Sonny, there's a great story. Carla, her nickname is La Princesa, the princess. And I remember asking her, where'd you get that nickname? And she's like, well, that's what they call me at the house. I'm the princess of the house. And later on in the night, we were done, and I saw Steffi and I wished her luck, and I said, she came up to me and she said, hey, why is she the princess? Why am I not the princess? And I said, well, that's her nickname, the princess. And Steffi says, that's okay, she can have the princess and I'll be the queen. Hey, that's a point taken from you. So yeah, it just shows you the mindset of Steffi Kohn, the mindset of an athlete, that even a nickname is a competitive thing. And I'll give it to her, you know, and especially, hey, she could knock us out just with a view, you know, it's like, oh, look at us and we're already knocked out. She is a very strong woman. And as you pointed out, she comes from powerlifting and her body pretty much shows it out. Yeah, that's been, I think, the hardest or the most interesting transition, because obviously, you know, in boxing, it's all about your legs. You know, for as much as we see, you know, every punch comes from your legs. So she's got that huge base, a great foundation. But it's only her third professional fight, so this is a great time against a ring veteran like Valenzuela from Durango, Mexico. 31 professional fights for La Princesa. I'll give it to her, because indeed, so far, she's been able to withstand the power approach that Stephanie has put so far. So you've got to give credit where it's due. It's not easy to stand out in one round, let alone two, Stephanie. It is no match. So for Valenzuela, it's about just kind of drawing her out. I hope she runs out of gas. That would be a good strategy. And here comes Stephie Cohen. House of fire. And Valenzuela, the ring veteran, immediately got herself off the ropes, trying to keep her distance. Valenzuela, the longer fighter. But Stephanie won her professional debut in the Dominican Republic, but then had to draw in that fight in Dubai. And she was so hard on herself. She was her worst critic. She was like, I caused that drop. And you know what? It's great, because again, that shows you that she keeps herself proactive and she keeps herself accountable, which is the problem. A lot of times, there's a lot of people that are willing to just turn around and let anything else be the excuse for not being able to get the job done. So proper for her to do that. Valenzuela and the blue trunks with the white trims and Stephie, as we mentioned, with the Vino team tour of Venezuela. Scheduled for four, round two, two minute rounds. Cohen hasn't been able to just get that key shot. Stephie has been the aggressor. Now Valenzuela going in there, engaging with her. And she's got a nice left jab by Stephie Cohen, just kind of letting her know. As we're in the waning moments, a round two, scheduled for four. And maybe part of what Cohen has to improve in her repertoire is getting that hip work done and improved. We see El Palillo, Isidro Nicolás in Stephie's corner, giving her some advice before she goes out there. One of the great legends in the Cuban boxing world. Part of the Mundo Boxing promotion family, Mundo Boxing, Boxing University. Could always go to the Mundo Boxing Facebook, Instagram, Twitter. So much going on, so it's such a stable that Pedro Diaz, the founder of Mundo Boxing is built with Stephie and Junior Dos Santos and El Chacal Rubenzo. You really wanna... Even Paige Van Sant. Yes. When she transitioned from MMA to boxing and Stephie going to work, pounding the midsection there with that right hand. But here goes part of the issue precisely. She does this, but having the frame of body that she has, still we see that she's not been able to pretty much dance it out around and really put in the combinations there because obviously it's not that easy. Right, and again, as much as we, oh, nice left! By Cone over to Valenzuela, she caught her going back and she got a nice left there and Valenzuela felt it and she immediately said, I'm gonna back up, I'm gonna be standing over here. Yeah. Valenzuela has not tried to engage her in the sense that she has tried to keep her distance. She has a longer reach. Which is smart to do. You don't wanna do the short distance with her just because. Because in the short distance, it's like having a bowl going straight at you. And you can tell, obviously, we don't wanna be too critical, obviously, it's only Stephie's third professional fight. Yes. But you can tell there are moments when you see Valenzuela backing up where Stephie just kinda lets her back up and doesn't go, as she's in the retreat, doesn't wanna go in there. Now granted, she doesn't wanna get caught. You gotta get a savvy ring veteran. Always the show of sportsmanship. And away we go in the final round in this Bantamweight division clash between Stephie Coleman and Carla Valenzuela. Our co-main event of the night, still coming up. Anthony White Chocolate Martinez against Alejandro Falliga. Eight rounds in the cruiserweight. So the big boys are gonna be out here. And now Stephie trying to get that work in. You can see Pedro Diaz in the back saying, throw, throw those punches. And Valenzuela kinda winning this round so far with the points, got her in there. Nice combination by Valenzuela. And Valenzuela knows that this is the round for her to go and get that Hail Mary. And Valenzuela just walked into a step left from Stephie though. And you don't wanna walk into one of those. Now a little body work by Valenzuela. And Stephie breaks her guard with that left again. Oh, nice left by Stephie. She is unforgiving with her approach. She is a bull, she is a move forward. Again, there go the combinations. Valenzuela in this round more than anything, working on that body. You almost wonder why she didn't try to do it earlier. She only has four rounds to play with. Which gives you little space to do this. Yeah, you gotta get it right from the jump. Especially when you face an opponent that is significantly stronger than you, which, Right. You can only guess that you're gonna have to dry her down much more. Final moments of the fight. Good show by both ladies. And I'll tell you what. Ladies and gentlemen, the results are in. And are as follow. Fernando Barbosa scores the fight 40-36. And there is 39-37 and 39-37 by both. Gloria Rizzo and Peter Samoisky. There for your winner in the red corner by unanimous decision, Stephie Cohen. Not much of a surprise there as Stephie was able to stay busy. Let's go up to Christian in the ring with Stephie. Steph, so first off, congrats. Very hard fought victory. You were forward. You were like a raging bull indeed tonight. And hey, your career is beginning off great. You get to fight at home tonight. Talk to us about that. Yeah, I mean, it's an honor and a privilege to be able to fight on a stage like this in front of all my friends and family. So really happy and grateful for all of you guys that came here to see me today. I love you guys. Walk us through the fight, how it was from your view. I honestly didn't expect her to still be standing on round four, but obviously looks can be deceiving. It was a great fight. She had a ton of endurance, walking forward all the time, putting pressure. It was a fun fight. In that same token, what did you learn from this fight that you want to improve ahead? A lot of things. I mean, I'm just getting started and I think I still have to improve on literally everything, but I'm looking at the past, my last fight and the improvements that have made sense and gonna keep doing what I'm doing with my team and moving forward. You know, coming from powerlifting and moving to boxing, a lot of people don't understand how tough a transition that is. Can you walk us for a moment on how that is? Because it's not as simple as it can seem. Yeah, it's a completely different sport that operates on the opposite end of the physical spectrum. You know, I did powerlifting and limb weight lifting for about 10 years before this. So it's all unilateral movements up and down, strength-based, no conditioning, and we're moving to a much more dynamic sport, one that changes every time that you get in the ring, that requires a lot of coordination and endurance and stamina and strength and power and intelligence, everything combined, so learning little by little. The personality element to boxing, you just spoke about being dynamic, where do you feel at currently in that aspect? I mean, on a scale of one to 10, I would say maybe a four or a five, just getting started. I have so much to learn, I'm really humbled by the sport. What do you have to say to everyone that has come in a very nice crowd here that Mundo Boxing has been able to put up in the Mac Double Tree? What do I have to say to them? Yeah. Thank you guys for coming, and Viwa the 305, hell yeah, Miami. Thank you so much, Stephanie, congrats again.

=== FILE: IFBB PRO FLEX WHEELER DESTROYED US WITH 20 REP SETS  ｜  UPPER BODY WORKOUT [SVZCdpJodmg].txt ===

! We are at Dragon's Lair. It's my buddy Flex Lewis's gym. Is there a second time here? Yes, we were here. We coincidentally met Flex Wheeler. And super nice guy. We asked him if we could get a workout in with him. I'm really curious to hear some of his training philosophies and watch him train. I have so much respect for him and everything that he's done. He didn't actually grew up watching his videos. It was really cute to see him ask him for a fat photo. I feel like I've been a fanboyed for the first time. It was really cute. I'm normally like that's so lame when people ask other people for photos. I never do that. And then I stop. So let's see what Flex got for us. So you want to do all upper body? Not all of it. Okay. That sounds like a lot. Yeah, it would be way too much. So I believe in, as I was explaining to him, I believe in high reps. And my logic is I know a long time ago people was like, you know, if you do high reps, you're going to burn muscle off. How many reps is high? 20. Okay. 20 is almost like you've done three or four sets already. I just, I don't believe in wasting all this time in a gym, right? Just achieve your goal and get out. So, all right. Ready? Okay. Nine foot, talk your feet. There you go. Yes. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. There you go. Good job. In terms of the intensity of those 20 reps, should you be getting close to failure, failure or not even close? Well, nine times out of 10, it doesn't matter. If you do anyone else's workout, you're going to come to failure quicker because you're not used to it, right? Your body's conditioned to it. So nine times out of 10, my clients would say, I can't get to 20 with this weight. I'm like, the weight don't mean crap. So do however many you can. If you need to drop the weight, the most important thing is hitting that rep range of 20, not your weight. So, I'm going to go to failure, whether or not to fail, if you don't want to go beyond that point, this is your grip, I get weak and I'm holding my legs and next to you, you know. So, I'm paying attention to you guys' body language. Come on, let's go. Five, squeeze, six, more fast, seven, eighteen. I know there's no point in doing it. 19, 20. So, you guys are paying attention to this, a minute, turn around. So when you're doing back, normally the first thing people do is they go, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that. Normally, the first thing people do is they go up here. So, you're already contracting your biceps. You don't want to go here, right? You want to pull here first, engage into the lat. If I put my hands underneath here, and I pull down, see how the lats are engaged already? So that's the difference from pulling from there versus pulling from here. Pull down, see the biceps going to come into play. So, your first movement on here is contracting here, right? They're gonna come to play anyway, cause they're second to everything else. But you don't want it to be first. So again, pulling here and then contracting a lot of way down and all the way up, all right? I'm always curious to know, especially people who have achieved so much in a sport, what, how do you overcome failures? I just had a really rough life, you know, on the wealth. You went with? Yeah, just my childhood, you know, just on welfare. We were super poor and, you know, money was scarce. You know, clothes were scarce. Sometimes I didn't need, you know, sometimes I didn't have a place to stay in high school. I was homeless, you know, sleeping in a car. But I started training in martial arts when I was seven. And no matter what, I've always been wired that I am. I'm an extreme competitor. I'm just very, very competitive, not in a bad way. I just, I just love, and I hate failure within myself. Right? I can't stand this great coach from UCLA. His name was John Wood, one of the greatest coaches in history in basketball. He had a saying, and it's, we have to learn how to lose what I'm being defeated. So it's okay to lose, to be defeated is a whole different thing. And some body parts are actually all body parts. I have this other, like, weird analogy. So when you're in class, there's a whole bunch of students, right? And the teacher has to divide herself up to all the students, right? But if your tutor is just you and a tutor, just one on one, you get more, right? So the same thing, if I'm contracting both muscle, that's a lot of concentration, right? Versus just doing one. You can put everything into it. Also, the weaker side is more explosive than it has to do with his own work, right? That number is, I'll call it 13, 14, 15. All the way back, all the way back. 16, yes. 17. Good contraction, huh? 18, 19, all the way. Got a hand full of sweat, I wasn't expecting that. So good. I'll keep my hands away from my face. So how's the workout going? I mean, picture's worth a thousand words? Should take a picture of that. So, comps that I can't even flex. My lats are just, I just feel, yeah. And this is an XL, right? Yeah, this is a double X. How do you overcome doubts after feeling it? See, I never have. I'm just really effed up like that. I've never believed in myself. From my childhood, I have very, very, very low self-esteem. So I never thought I could win any show. I always thought it was a joke. I thought they would call me and come and take my trophies and my money away. So at a young age, I understood that people would take your weaknesses and use them against you. So I just kind of, not knowing it, I created this flex wheeler, alter ego guy that didn't take shit from nobody. You wanna make it happen, let's make it happen any way you want. But that was to really protect me, Ken Wheeler, because all the things I've been through, I'm a realist, and so I'm aware that it can and it can't happen. Me, mentally, I rather set myself up like, you know what, I don't know if I'm a win this, but you know what, I'm not gonna lose because I didn't try and give it all I got. But I'm not gonna walk around and think, like, here I'm gonna win this show or, you know. How's the club, bro? Huh? How's the club? Pretty good. How's it look? Not bad. I call this new up the eclipse. That was looking huge. My lats. I literally feel my lat in my back pocket. I'm just like fatigued all the time. Invisible basketball. First we're gonna do hot potato. So that's 21, it's cause it burns so bad, you're like, fucking take it! Hurry up, it's your turn, alright, so. I'm eating a pussy. What? What? I don't want my arms to get tired. No, you don't really like that. No, like I don't want my arms to get dirty for tomorrow. I'm leaving, I'm coming out of my roof leaving. Don't give a fuck, I don't care. Did the shit by my lonesome, no wonder now I'm on one. No shortcuts on that long run. I'm like, really, one is my share. Get them, I got them, I tell them it's nothing. In the discussion, fuck all them feelings, I throw all my pain on percussion. She the disgust, they're not here, I'm bragging about shit that they did, and they do not move me, not enemies. They ain't been dropping no seeds in the sub, but swear that you own my spot at the feast. I been on cold mode, show them. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah, yeah. Are you doing it right? Yeah. Just take your arms, right, take your arms, flare them, not up, out, right, through your lats. So from here, all I'm doing is flaring my lats, then from there to here. Yep, there you go, and relax, and relax. So the other thing is your arms are up too wide, so if I go like this, I'm not that wide, right? So again, I only open up as wide as I am, from the end. Yeah, nice, that's a pleasure. Beautiful. So roll your shoulders back. All right, now open, there you go, that's better. So keep yourself wide here, bring your arms in more. Just listen, does this make me wider? Or does this make me wider? Relax, relax. All I want you to do is go like this. That's it. Nice. Or traps and everything in a way. So it's called the relaxed pose, or semi-relaxed pose, right? So again here. Okay. The thing about it is you have crazy lats, but they're hitting, so what you're doing is, you're actually too easy. That's not it. That's definitely not it. Next pose, front double bicep. Okay. All right, so from there, all you're gonna do is rotate your shoulders back. You're gonna put your lats, that's all it is. So it takes again flexibility, right? Just rotate your back. Good enough. Actually, that's pretty good. Yeah, shit. You probably used to doing that pose right before your fights, yeah. That's pretty good. Yeah, that's pretty good. You gotta make that face. Yeah, I don't know what face that is. What are you thinking about? What? Shit-y. Shit-y. Shit-y. He's taking a dip. See his roof? That's his shit. So first thing is just go like this. Don't worry about the legs. Just upper body, just go like this. So the difference is, you guys do this, all that, don't even flex, right? Hands here, relax. Just go like that. So that's part of it. Posting out. That's down to it. That's down to it. Flex the body set, find it out. That's the body set. That's good. Pull more, pull more. You do. Pretty impressive. So he wins. Probably you coming second to get my boys taking a strong third place. Again. Yup. Crazy, freaking crazy. That's crazy. That's crazy. That's impressive, man. I wouldn't have thought you would have those things on the post too. All right, great, great. That's so cool, I win. Thank you. When you're a little bit of a, not a pessimist, but a realist. When you're a little bit more of a realist and you have more doubt and fear within you, you tend to overprepare. That was me. And I could be bad. I call it a double edged sword. It cut both ways. I'm sure you felt always the same way. No matter how well you did, you always thought you could do better. I'm angry. So she would always leave the show at the competition and try to throw her medals in the trash. And sometimes she would, like gold medals of the biggest competitions. And I'd go behind her. And then me, the optimist though, went behind her and would pull them out of the trash. And now, so we still have them all. I have all that stuff in your bag. The nationals, I threw my medals away. But I don't even know where my Olympia medallions are. I don't know where they are. They just collect us. It's the honor and the respect and it's a chase of the dream. So yeah. It's not about the accomplishment itself, but what other skills and how were you able to impact people along the way.

=== FILE: Im In My Element ｜ Ive Got Another Fight Coming [Nun1EqNTFX8].txt ===

 parentheses Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes. Oh, boy. This guy's insane. Yeah, okay, welcome to another YouTube channel. Just another day training. This is my second session of the day. I'm leading on to another fight that I just got last minute, November 21st in the Dominican Republic. So training is starting to wrap up again. Now we have more boxes, specific drills. We have some more on the bag. And then we have some Cuban combat school in the ring that I'm gonna do with Karim. This video today is sponsored by my newest partner, Elements. Elements is a salt, electrolyte powder that you put in your drink for the purpose of improving your hydration and subsequently your performance. So I'll be educating you guys a little bit more on what the benefits of Elements are. But for the most part, what you need to know is each pack has a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium, which is an amazing mix of electrolyte and sodium alike that will undoubtedly help you perform better. There's a lot of misconceptions around being the topic of sodium consumption because of years and years and years of misinformation from the media to the public that have scared people away from souls because of its relationship to kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. What we know, just based on the latest research, that that is not necessarily the case, especially if you're a healthy individual, the sodium recommendations for athletes or for the regular person are extremely low. So if you're somebody who's an athlete and who sweats a lot, you probably need to look at your sodium consumption. So join the saltiest crew of high performance and see for yourself. Head over to drinkelement.com slash hybrid to get your sample pack of Elements. All you have to pay for is the cost of shipping and you'll get all eight flavors delivered right to your doorstep. Yeah, so what are you guys doing today? We're just following the plan. The plan is always, always ready here. Secret, we can't say what is, but yeah, we usually, we do more, we work more on the equipment bag and then after we're gonna do some boxing school. Let's go. The noise is bad, the jam, the double jam. The devil's on that. The devil's on that. Come on, come on. Excuse me, Mrs. Steffi Cohen. What are you doing, ma'am? Nobody. Ma'am, I would like to know every detail of your life, please, ma'am. Are you training? Hello, Marcus, how are you doing? What's up, big season? What are you doing, bro? Stretching? Six pigeon poses. You look good in that position. Goodbye. I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna do that. It's fucking good. It's gonna be good. Face and face. Come on. Come on. Come on. Watch your target. Okay. Okay. Why don't you give it away to the shrimp? Anyone want a drink? Is that why you need elements? That's why I need elements. Yeah, it's really uncomfortable. You kind of forget how uncomfortable it is, especially during a fight. But then there are some times in training that are like... They're not created enough from that. And you feel that way during the fight. Like if you get hit, that's how you feel. The only difference is that you actually can't stop and you're getting hurt.

=== FILE: Inside Stefi Cohens Fight Prep ｜ Dubai Fight [3kXIn1YQ7Gg].txt ===

! I'm nervous. Yeah, but it's good. It's good. It means you're alive. You know? Yeah. Yeah, I just want to start moving. Make sure they didn't forget how to box on the way here. I'm nervous. Yeah, but it's good. It's good. It means you're alive. You know? Yeah. Yeah, I just want to start moving. Make sure they didn't forget how to box on the way here. Yeah, but it's good. Yeah, so good job. Yeah, I'm gonna leave. I'm gonna leave. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, it's good. I'm gonna leave. I just want to say that if they didn't start counting how many abs, how many sit-ups you had done, I'd probably start hurting. Yeah, I like make it together first sweat out of the way. I'm super well conditioned. Like, there's no reason why it should have been like out of breath after like the first minute in the bag. But because of the nerves, like, I felt my heart rate jacked up. So that's the toughest part about the fight is that like, if they adrenaline in the nerves, what like make your heart rate spike and you get out of breath. I think it's like a different breath. Yeah. Cool enough to dump. Wow, facey shower, man. Dude, in there really. It's all connected. Can we leave it on zip a little bit? Let's just do it. Yeah, a little bit. Can you please give us a small introduction, what your background is, your name, age, where you're from? My name is Steffi Cohen. I'm 29 years old, originally from Caracas, Venezuela. This is just another stepping stone for me in terms of my professional boxing career. It's not gonna be my last fight. It's not gonna be my most important fight. It's just one more fight for me. So I don't feel that much pressure. Can I get a pump real quick? Yeah, can I get a pump? You're the first one. First one. Dude, that's insane, man. I don't even have to chase it anymore. Just let a prison workout. Oh, we got a garbage bag somewhere. This is something that, if you were to say something to her, was it gonna be? How does it feel to be face to face with the strongest woman on earth? If I was her, I'd be pretty scared. It's all so smag. How are you? Dude, does it have the heaviest man anyone's put on? It's going to be fun. How's it going? I lost two liters. I lost two liters. That's insane. I'm so excited to be here and be given this opportunity to slug it open. I'm a giant. Looking forward to hopefully punching them in the face. Tell them, you're gonna wish on Saturday night that you did not say those words. If you're going to start on the night, I won't break your face. I'm not known for my face anyways. Boxing. A lot of the boxers like to criticize you guys. Say you're stiff. Say you're slow. Say that the carryover from Strengthsports to boxing isn't there. For each of you personally, do you think there's validity to those criticisms? Or do you think people are writing you off, you know, and underestimating what you guys can do? I'm not like the stereotype that people like to cast on Strengthsports, you know. I'm not stiff. I'm fluid. I'm technical. I move with precision. And I'm able to not make bullet fuck out. So I'm ready to show that. No. Alright, now that you're closer to that, how's this feeling comparable to meet Jay? And honestly, I'm way more nervous for meet day. There's so many more variables and kind of like room for error in boxing when compared to barlifting. Like barlifting, you can do everything right. Everything. Your weight got some point, your training was on point. And then you get to meet day and for some reason your wires are like crossed or they're not firing the way that they should. And you completely shit the bed. But in boxing, there's so much more, right? Like you practice a bunch of things. You have your plan A, B, C, D, E. There's many things that you can prepare with to execute come fight day. I think that if you're an adaptable athlete that adapts to the changing conditions of the fighting game, then you're fine. Today we're going to do a training that's combined with the competition. The test is very heavy. We're going to do some tactical details, but everything is fine. Everything is fine. The test is very good in the conditions, well focused and nothing. Tomorrow is the weigh-in and then, as always, we're going to go for the victory. I'm waiting for Wayne to start. I can weigh in and one of my life. I passed. Oh my god. Oh my god. Nope. Hi, my name is Liam. I have a question for you. We're ballet dancing. You are in a bikini and I am shirtless. You're about to lift me. How exactly would you lift me? Official weigh-in for Seth and Joanne 56.8 kilos. Yes, so before every fight, I'd like to sit with his athletes to talk about the strategy and the tactic. Just how you're feeling overall with the preparation for the camp. Yeah, just reminding you of combinations and showing you the ways of your opponent. So that you can visualize what you're going to do and when. Go, go, go. Go, go, go. Go there. Go there. Go there. Go there. You can do it. Easy. Out. Out. Out. You'll get to see. I feel like I've been in this room for five hours and it's been 13 minutes. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. I Oh Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Excuse me. Excuse me. Go Brad, go Peter! Keep pressure Safiq, keep pressure! Safiq! One more time! One more time! One more time! Go! Come on, Safiq! Put your combination, Safiq, let's go! Nice! 5-2, 5-2! Come on, come on, there you go! 5-2, Safiq, let's go, 5-2, come on! There you go, come on! Long jab, come on, long jab! Go Safiq, let's go! There you go! There you go! Yes, Safiq, come on! One second! Come on, come on, come on! Come on, come on! What do you call this? What a plumbie, and where do you put it? Do you look forward to coming to Greenwich? Probably to the future. Well, thank you, everyone, so much for watching. Ladies and gentlemen, see you on the step-by-step! Let's go, step-by! Thank you for watching!

=== FILE: Is Stefi Getting Ready For Her First Fight？ ft Michelle Basnett ｜ Boxing EP 3  ｜ PR'ing Life [vbm9DIvEN3o].txt ===

 What's up, my babies? I'm in such good shape now. I can pretty much do the entire video while I'm done with rope. That's the shape I'm in right now, my babies, and that's the truth. We're in a good mood today. Just left 16 hours. Caesar, you f**k. See that? Caesar just put his foot in my rope. Boxing update! Let's try it again. Boxing update! That was easily 2,000 revolutions a second. Yeah. We're fighting. That's what you say. We're fighting now. What are you denying? Caesar, how many times did you just say we're fighting? We're fighting now. We're fighting. We're fighting now. We're fighting now. Really? And now ready? I'm not a chef today. I'm not a chef. Can I smell? Smell it. Oh god. That's your own stench, Karim. What you're smelling is the smell of your balls. Oh my god. I'm so excited. It is unbelievable. That's you. Hello. Cesar, have you noticed that now I only have blonde friends? Yeah. We're colder. Blondes do it better. Blondes do it better. Am I blonde? Michelle, who are you? I'm Michelle. I'm from North Carolina. I love that. I do crossfit and I'm trying boxing. Nice. I forgot the name. I'm going to do a kick-up. I did shoo-lity growing up. And then I did Olympic lifting and now crossfit. So, how old are you? I'm 23. Youngster. So, I'm really good. I've done it before. You're natural, right? Seems natural. It seems very natural. See, a girl that has been boxing before, or like, boxing a few times, has that like, coordination. Like, girls usually look a lot more coordinated the first time they punch. Especially when it's fighting, you know. Especially when it's something I've did even more. Kind of mainly, you know. Yeah, I know. Like, hitting someone, it's not natural for a girl to go and feel natural and enjoy to hit someone. Guys, everything we wanted to get hit there. Yeah. Have you ever been punched in the face? Like, yeah? That would be a first for me. It's for you too. Okay, wait, are we going to get you? Yeah, I think it feels really empowering. You know? I don't know. The first, and it was pretty evident to me as I started to love them. If I was ever in a situation where I had to defend myself, could I defend myself? Yeah. But would I be confident and comfortable to really go for it? I don't think so. Not that I know that I think that I could do much damage just like punching a grown male. But at least, you give him a fight. I think you gotta punch someone at least once in your life. You know? Like, so, it's okay. Have you punched someone in your life before? No, I wrestled with my brothers, but I've never like legit punched anybody. Or like gotten in a fight or anything. But yeah, no for real. Just being able to like defend yourself would be cool. I grew up in another world country so of course I've punched people in the face. Yeah, including me. I can't. See if she's punching. Come on. Come on, man. Come on, come on. Come on, come on. Come on, come on. Fun. I'm a pro athlete. Just trying to, I wanna make a game. I'm a real average video. So, I've been working towards that for a while now and I'm gonna come to the Finals. But this season's so off this year. I feel like a lot of people, quarantine happened and they stopped training, you know. They stopped doing their things. So I just try to keep going. It's been good. Do you have anything coming up? Fight or anything? No, I'm not fighting. I'm fighting. I'm really big my first fight. I'm lazy next year. Yeah. I wanna learn a lot. I'm more angry when I'm not able to defend yourself. You can't get through a fight. Especially when you have someone coming at you. Like, just like attacking you. Yeah. I feel confident when I'm like on the pad. I feel confident when I'm like on the pad. Yeah, I can fight anybody. Like, come on. And then you get in front of someone that's like, you know, it's not stopping. It's just like throwing punches. You know. Karima, have you ever thrown a double punch? I've never. I've never. Really? On the ground. When they're on the ground, they can do a shit. Straight, straight. Back to your feet. 6, 8, 10. I'm ready to fuck you up, bro. See this here? See this right here? The eye of the tornado. As long as you're out of the reach. This is what it is. I'm fine. Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So much. See this? See this right here? This, this, this. Measure your distance. You don't have to be running around, all around the ring like crazy person. You choose here. Just here, move your head. Move your head. This runs for you, huh? Yeah, I hope she wins it. Nice. Did you see that one? Shut up! I love it. I love it. Nice. Look at that. Damn, drawn blood, bro. Look at that. Tomorrow we'll fucking fight her now. We fighting now. We fighting now. It's a fissure. We not now, we're fighting. You're straight up fighting. You're not gonna have to smile with me. Shit. I hope Miami swear this. For sure, after these, I'm gonna have to say that I'm not gonna be a fissure. I'm not gonna be a fissure. I'm not gonna be a fissure. I'm not gonna be a fissure. For sure, after these, I'm gonna have some fungus. Fungus? For sure, I'm not gonna have some fungus. Hey, Siri, please, give me another glove. Don't be mad, should be. Do you have my face? You're so much happening. Right? You're like, drawn in? You're like, oh yeah. You get a hit and then he hit a turn and you're like, oh shit. You're really cool. This is really cool to learn. This is something different. There's really cool things about Miami. It's like, you know, the way you're fighting. You're like, you know, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're different. It's really exciting. And then, like, sparring or boxing or like, doing the actual thing, that was like, intense. Crazy. When someone's actually coming and hitting you, you're like, oh, great one, box. What do people find you? Instagram, MichelleBasmet04 and that's about it. That concludes our boxing session for today. We're gonna do some like, another real training starts, you know? This is just a warm-up. And if you liked this video, please hit that like button. Read. Like this video, make sure you subscribe to the channel if you're ready. Like this video then hit over to Hypertpair.com and buy some training programs, nutrition programs and Hypertpair.store to get the swaggy swag in the game. Thanks for watching, I'll catch you guys next time. Peace. You know one of those days where you're just like feeling like your voice is sounding really nice? Yeah. And I was having a sing-off in the shower and then Hayden came in and I kind of like wanted to keep singing to like show off. I said, how long, how long you gonna keep doing this? But it was a long time. You

=== FILE: So You Think You Know Fat Loss, Greg？ ｜ The Rebuttal ｜ Ft. Greg Doucette [9O0eMsRQ3ig].txt ===

! Coach, Dragan, tell me you're doing a review by none other than world champion power lifter, In case you missed it, I was recently called out on YouTube by some guy named Greg Duchet, who is apparently a bodybuilding coach, IFBB pro, and Gilbert Gottfried impersonator. In this video, Greg casually sits on the couch and screams about a video I made while his lady calmly prepares a delightful lunch in the background. Specifically, he picks up one of my recent posts covering cardio and whether it's worth all the hype. Since Greg was kind enough to grace us with his opinion, I figured I would do the same. So sit back, relax, and welcome to my rebuttal. Walking is cardio. So she's saying rather than focus on cardio activities like walking, do more non-cardio activities like walking. Don't do more cardio, do more cardio. Focus on cardio, don't focus on cardio, do more cardio. Let me clarify what I meant here. The average person who is just starting their fitness journey, the ones who make up a good portion of my audience, don't think of taking their dog for a walk as a meaningful source of cardio for the purposes of getting a leaner. I have to meet my audience at their level of understanding and not overwhelm them with unnecessary distinctions when what they're really looking for is for a few practical tips that they can apply to improve their lifestyle habits. Many people think that cardio is exclusively very long duration exercise at an uncomfortable intensity. And I get that this can be confusing for a bodybuilder, given that so many of them spend hours walking on a treadmill at 3.5 miles per hour and 100% inclined, but this is not common thought. Oh, I think most people know that you can lose weight a variety of ways. If this was true, I literally wouldn't have a job. Anyone who works with real human clients knows that the majority of people hold countless misconceptions about the right way you lose weight. Many of them are completely clueless in fact. That is why detox tea and herbal life still exist. And this is why I get hundreds of questions about exactly this topic anytime I do a Q and a. Well, yeah, the more cardio you do, the more fat you are going to lose. Uh, not unless you're in a calorie deficit. This blanket statement is misleading. More cardio does not automatically equal more fat loss. I should point out that Greg goes on to support the principles of calories in calories out and compensatory mechanisms in response to exercise later on in the video negating his own statements. After Greg got done shattering my eardrums on the topic of energy systems, I found that we actually hold a lot of common ground on several points. We agree that there's no fat burning zone. My use of the term was to tell people to stop caring about it. I think that was pretty obvious. We agree that cardio machines largely overestimate calories burnt. We agree that high intensity and or long duration cardio can decrease non-exercise activity, thermogenesis and increase appetite. Although I find it funny that he believes he's immune to the body's own unconscious energy saving survival mechanisms versus when coach Greg goes to the gym and does cardio. Yes, energy can keep going all day. I can do this all day. Yeah, I know. I know. So when I do cardio, I'm actually able to continue burning throughout the day. But if you're out of shape and you go and do that one or two hours, you're done. Your calorie burning goes down. Finally, we agree that fat loss can be achieved through a balanced equation of resistance training, cardiovascular exercise and sound sustainable nutritional habits. Honestly, if it wasn't for the tone of his voice, I'd say the point of his video was to flatter me and spread my message and that we can maybe be friends one day. But dude, think about who I'm talking to in this video. I'm not you talking to 16 year old boys who want to get bigger bicep peaks or a physique competitor trying to get to 4% body fat. I'm talking to the person who spends 60 minutes on the elliptical pushing themselves in order to eat a piece of chocolate at lunch. I care about helping real people, man. At hybrid, we educate people to show them where to start on their strength journey amidst all the BS that's out there detox season all. Greg Keter's the bodybuilding community, which is often dominated by rigid rules. So speaking in extremes, works for him. I hope you guys learned something from this video. If you still have questions, please don't hesitate to reach out and find out how hybrid training and hybrid nutrition can help you out. Check us out at hybridreferencemethod.com and as always, I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye. Quick disclaimer my babies, I know that we took some shots at Greg Ducey, Ducey, Ducey. I don't know how to say your last name, sorry, apologies in advance. But it was all in good fun. There's actually no animosity between me and Greg, at least not coming from me. I can't speak for him. But everybody here at hybrid respects what you've done, Greg, and we really enjoy your videos. So keep it up.

=== FILE: Stefi Cohen Goes Race Car Driving With Olympian Skier Divina Galica & Holly Baxter ＊CRASHES？＊ [qFp5-7MkQAA].txt ===

! I actually didn't even know what we were doing. Holly just asked me if I wanted to race some cars. And here we are. Yeah, and I learned how to do it in a minute, so Ella, you know what that means. What does that mean? Ready for anything. See this? It's called intimidation. Holly Baxter thinks she's a WBFS pro. WBFS, yeah. I like that a lot. I like the costumes. Oh, it's a bit more far. I mean, I'm not as serious about it as the girls that do IPV. It's so pretentious, but this is just a bit more like, I did Sailor Moon as my costume outfit, like anime. I was a skier for many years and my last Olympics was 1972 and I took up motor racing in 1974 by mistake. It was up by having a really long career. But I really got hooked on the teaching and I've now taught for 26 years over here, third in the world in some World Cup races. And but I then took up speed skiing and I did a speed of 125 miles an hour. 200 kilometers an hour on skis. On skis. Believe me, it feels fun. Pop you a little further forward. It's my personal seat. DV seat. Oh my God. It's an honor. We need to have you close enough that you can reach the pedals. Can you reach any pedal? Yeah. If I go like this. Yeah, we need you further forward. What was that? My legs. That was the most difficult thing I've ever done. What? What the fuck? Is it better? Yeah. Play better? Yeah, perfect. If it's too stacked, you always push it up. Why can't you? Okay. Sounds like something. So I really erupt your video, but I have a very important announcement for you, given that it is holiday season and likely a lot of you guys are going to be scrambling for gifts and don't know what to get that special someone, which is why I did the homework for you and I've partnered with Harry's to show you an awesome idea for a gift that you can give. So Harry's came out with this amazing shaving kit that includes an engravable razor, a shaving cream, three extra blades and a blade protector. And for only $2, you can continue buying replacements for those blades. What I love about Harry's is that they're super high quality. Their razors are made in Germany. They're extremely affordable. I love that they just came up with this gift set that is ready to give and I like what they stand for. So Harry's gives back 1% of every sale to organizations that support mental health for men and for veterans. So get yours now. Use Steffi for $5 off on their $20 gift set. Can you help me out of all of them? Awesome. I got it. Give us fun. Just getting used to the trap, you know. But it has like pretty good grip and control over all the car. And the grip is getting better. As you see the asphalt lighten up and get grey, there's reasonable grip there. It's not optimum grip yet, but if you see your tires are shiny, you won't have grip until that dries off. How fast did you get? Did you look at your opium to dim up at any point? I was only going fast on like this right away. You? I think I got up to 5.5 pounds and I'm like 2 of the laps in the back, like in the 50th year. Oh my god. I think I actually got a slight down. I feel pathetic right now in here. Why? I just have such a hard time getting in and out. I feel like I'm 70... No, she said 75 and looks better than me getting in and out. I feel 103. You look like when a kid is getting strapped into the car by their parents. You look like you're getting out. You look like you're getting out. You look like you're getting out. That guy is not cool. That's why he's getting out. Wow. You look like you're getting out. Yeah! Yeah! Two hours later. I can see myself doing this. Yeah. Well, no, actually, no, you know why? Because it's just similar to weightlifting in that it's a game of milliseconds, you know? And it's monotonous. I've already played games that are a game of milliseconds or a milli... grams. Grams? Yeah, weightlifting. It's like you have to wait so long to have to make any sort of significant improvements. So it's like imagine how many times would I have to do this course to like chip half a second on my time, you know? At a certain point, yeah. At a certain point. Because now you could probably take 30 seconds off your time just by keeping on your feet things. Yeah, right. No, but it's pretty fun. And honestly, like, I thought these things were more dangerous, but I feel like they're relatively safe. You saw a pretty like wide face. Pretty. They're not gonna flip on you, aren't they? Yeah, I think the most dangerous part about racing is if you collide against... Yeah, I'm tired of the tire, except you're flying in the air. We'll do Elbas. Congratulations. There's your diploma. You did a fantastic job. Thank you, sir. Awesome. And you got that pass. Well done. Yeah, she overtook me. Yeah. Well done. You overtook you. Yeah, she passed Holly. I did Elbas very good. Very good indeed. Thank you.

=== FILE: Stefi Cohen Shows Off Her Insane Shoe Collection [CZmClzQzc_E].txt ===

 Hello, my name is Steffi Cohen, and I am a shoe addict. What's up? So, a common question that we see all the time in Steffi's Instagram, YouTube, all that stuff, is, I guess it's not a question, it's a request. People want to see her closet, her shoe collection. If you've been following her on anything, you see that she's pretty much got a different pair of shoes on every day, might have a bit of a problem with that. She's never going to show you guys on her own, so I'm going to hijack your channel today, capture doing whatever she's doing up there, and force her to show you guys her collection. So, follow me. What? Well, I got these out here. I thought maybe, since you're never going to do it yourself, we could do a closet tour for... Oh my god, she's crazy! For your fans! I already prepped this with you might have a little bit of a problem with shoes. Honestly, shoes are the least of her problems. You get like 27 Amazon packages a day. Yeah, but I feel like the death doesn't count, you know what I mean? Because why do you order for bottles? I don't know, like a pair of socks, you know? New toothbrush. Five bucks in the socks a day? Water bottles! Oh, you see a big water bottle gal for some reason. All right, Matt, boring. Let's go. No, seriously. No, look, here's the thing. Here's the thing, right? I wear gym clothes would say 90% of the time. Maybe more. Maybe more. Okay. Maybe more. So, what are gym clothes composed of? Tights or joggers or shorts and then like a graphic tee or just like a plain tee and then maybe like I like layering, so probably I'll wear like something like this on top and then what I mean in my opinion, that's way too plain and I'm not a vanilla girl. I'm vanilla and not vanilla girl. Gotta spice it up, boy. Gotta spice it up. At least we're gonna spice it up with some dope souls. At first glance, it looks a little chaotic over there because I mean I know we've switched roles and now I'm the person who likes order. So if you look at my side, it's very well laid out. You got dunks, Louis Vuitton, Air Max 90s, Jordans, Gucci, these are miscellaneous Nikes, slip-ons, Yeezys. Question. Hold on. Air forces. This is not your video. Yeah, well, you know what? But I'm just giving contrast. So now you've seen my side all very neatly put together dress shoes down there. You know slides over here. All right. Now let's go to room number one of when you're trying to, if you're an aspiring shoe collector such as I might ask myself, you gotta know one rule and this is the rule of the white converse, which is the rule I came up with. The rule of the white converse, T.M. You need one pair of shoes, right? What color you're gonna get first? You don't start with orange because I'm glad that's crazy. That's crazy, dude. If you don't have any shoes and you're buying orange pair of shoes, what are you doing? You have problems. Okay, what are you gonna wear that with? That's really difficult too. Yeah, prison jumpsuit. Pretty much. Yeah, probably what they were wearing. Okay. You're not gonna start there. You're gonna start with either black or white. Clear. Okay. Now you have your black and white or white shoe. Then what's the next step? After black or white? Yeah. Beige. Neutral. Then what comes after beige? Red, obviously. Because red is also a color that goes with pretty much everything. That's the that's the bread and butter. That's the rice and beans of a building a collection of any kind. You can apply that to anything. Purse says you can apply that to belts. You can apply that to That's it. So yeah, okay. So we've we've gone. Oh my god. Look how perfect this is. White beige black red. Didn't even plan that. Didn't even plan that. But dude question who can walk on these? This is a weapon of mass destruction. So on the top we have the Valentinas. Look ladies, this is an investment. Think about it this way. These these these studs In this type of shoe will never go out of style. Will never go out of style. Like you can this is Valentino has been making this shoe for who knows 50 years and it's the same. They never change anything. It's a classic shoe made of leather that you can if you especially if you wear if you grab a beige one you can wear for your entire life. So anyway, so let's say you don't want to wear heels. You're not a heel person. Let's move on to the next category, which are the more the shoes that are on the dress yourself. If you don't have a pair of alexander McQueen's what are you doing? This shoe, honestly, this is the shoe I wore for a wedding. One of the times I wore this with a with a long dress and it looks super cool. And it looks super cool. Yeah, it looks amazing. And again these shoes like they haven't changed the style of this shoe and who knows how long. So these are another kind of like forever shoe. I would start with the one that comes with black, but you can find them in whichever pattern and I love them. Hype brands in the designer uh industry. Like what are the brands that are like doing cool stuff that you can wear and not look like you're trying too hard. So you've got Gucci, you've got your McQueen's then Dior is making some really cool stuff. And these are like Indiana Jones style shoes. Like I feel like I could go hiking with these, but also go to brunch. Now let's move into my favorite area of the closet, which is the hype sneakers. Super clean. Let's start with the Yeezys, okay? Because I feel like we need to clarify some things about Yeezys. The first thing to clarify, I think most people don't even realize that the Yeezys a collaboration shoe. Like the entire line of Yeezys is Adidas and Kanye West. But when you think Yeezy, you just you literally just think about it being like Kanye's brand. Look, I'll tell you what, these are the Yeezys are by far the most comfortable shoe that I have. Agreed. Like by far. It's like because they are actually the stretchy material that's kind of like a sock. Yeah, they're just cloth and foam. Yeah, you just put your foot in and out. Also if you have Yeezys, this is how you wear the the laces, right? You don't tie it like a dork. Okay, you'll leave them out like that. That this is how they're supposed to be worn. And in fact, there's like other super cool ways to wear them if you just look up like ways to wear them. But none of them are tied up like a door. Yeah, no, you don't tie your Yeezys up. So in terms of like colorways, we got clay, which not yeah, clay, zebra, Phantom, don't remember the name for that one. Gray, and desert. Oh, and then also you have the Yeezys 700s. Yeah, so okay, these are tough for me to wear. These are tough for me to wear. The first time I saw someone pulling them pulling them off really well was Chris Ilya, R.I.P. And um, he was wearing it at one of his shows and I was like, damn, that looks sick on him. But also it might be because he's like seven feet tall. Leave it down below. Tell me of the Yeezys. Which one would you wear? Okay, moving on. So annoying. That's what you do every time. You hate it? Yeah, you know what I hate? How hard you sneeze and I've been having to deal with that. I can't help that. That's just me sneezing. No, you can trust me. I can either sneeze like this Or I can sneeze like this Or I'm not trying to explode my lungs or I can see like Like you Next category we're gonna go into um, let's do off-white clubs. So we go a few dunks that are off-white clubs. Yeah, well, yeah, I was gonna count those too. All right, where do I start? I love these so much. I'm gonna start from like oldest to youngest to newest So dunks, damn, I love these so much that I had to get them in two colors. And you know what? I think I paid. I love those too. I have the same. I didn't ask you in the university. Actually, I'll bring it because these are actually the three colors that they're offered in so I think we paid for each at that time. It was like 300 bucks And now they're like over a thousand some of these colors Really? And I got these two and you got these at the same time. I actually got them first and she told me that she hated them She thought they looked terrible and then I was wearing them and she got jealous and Decided that she actually liked them and then bought herself two pairs. Yeah, there's a few shoes. You've done that with you did that with my New york city of athletes shoes too, which are actually my favorite. Yeah, I'm hijacking your video She was like I ordered them and I showed her she's like I hate those I know look at that the hybrid laces too She's very nice. Yeah, and she's like I I hate those and then she came or they came It's my video. Okay, just get in go ahead and then they came and she said Oh, I wish I got them for myself and then you could never find them again That's true. That did happen um, I'll fight collaboration so These are probably the the ones that I wear the most these two Air forces. Yeah the Air Force and these are off-white. Yeah off-white collab I love them they're super comfortable and they go with literally everything Especially these neon ones and they pop which is super cool, but you do have to put the Spray protector so they don't get stained. I think it's been working for me. Honestly, they look pretty well kept These are sick Right and I'm having a hard time wearing them because I feel like my shoot my foot looks like a clown shoot It actually looks pretty cool with the black sole and the black sock What do you think hidden you keep the tag or you take the tag off? I think it takes cajones to rock the tag. I don't quite have it, but I think for you like you're so uh Extra with your style in general that Yeah, it's it's a power move to keep the tag on I think yeah, okay, you move on These are some of my favorite ones too. Look how crazy these are you can actually detach this from the laces And then just like wear it without or that's the Travis Scott. These are yeah, these are Travis Scott like, oh cool I think they're really nice These are by far my favorite pair and a shoe period Yes, like if I had to get rid of all of these shoes and just keep one I would keep these I think that's a good call to do this Yeah, I love these so much and uh I think They are the hippiest shoe of 2020 the vaults are pretty close. No, no not even like not even slightly close I would say between it's between I would say it's between these and the Travis Scott. Yeah, what is the hippiest shoe of 2020? And the only people qualified to answer this question are sneaker heads so please at least own one pair of off-white stands That's the qualifying criteria to be able to answer this question. Next. This is a really interesting subculture which is customized Shoes in general. So it's like these really dope artists who grab it's for the most part They grab like the most plain like Air Force ones and then they turn it into something crazy There's some people that paint on them like this or some people that use like Gold patterns from say like Louis bags or Dior bags and then like they make they Sew it into the shoe. It could be like in here and here. I was actually looking at a pair that were super cool like black With black Louis stuff in there on there um these are by Donnie Donnie the Donnie the diebug and Hayden you were like looking for these forever. Yeah, he only makes a certain number of pairs it's really limited every time he releases them and I never had post notifications turned on because I don't have that turned on for anybody and every time I would Soon as I would notice I would like that he released a new Like run of them. I'd go to the website always sold out. So finally I turned post notifications on and I snagged Myself a pair and stuffy. I got those black ones over there Off-white collabs Don't crease the shoes that's what people are gonna say like that like that Then I got a funny story about these So these are off-white prestos when I first got them They weren't even half of what they were worth today and I got them in black and in white for probably less Less than one of them is cost right now But anyway, so it was a what sure it looks like thousands now Yeah, uh, so I got them in white too and I was like they're getting pretty dirty because at that point I was still not I still didn't know exactly like how to care for them And I gave them to an to a local artist and I was like hey man Can you make these like some cool color maybe like blue or something like that? And he's like, yeah sure I got you and when he gave him back to me it legit just looked like The shoe completely run it looked like as if he just went Here you go Yeah, I know it's that and the white like sole on the shoe was all kind of like wrecked from the whatever he dipped it in Yeah, it was not good. Yeah, so I'm sad about that. I still I still every once in a while, but put the white ones in my cart and then I'm like Really don't have an impressive Jordan collab or a collection You know, I think these are slightly high-pitched because of the fur Because they're furry But I'll tell you that I don't know I haven't really I haven't really Found a pair of Jordans that I can that I can justify spending more money on So funny story again Went over to goat. Thank you for nothing But a pair of look after several months of putting this shoe in my cart and taking it out and putting it in Taking it out and putting it in I was like, you know what? Fuck it. I'm gonna do it. It was out of the trial scots Jordan's the ones with the inverted Nike sign through the fucking that's how much it hurt buying those shoes Okay, waited one week two weeks three weeks four weeks five weeks Six weeks at that point. I'm desperate. I've sent at least 17 emails and then they get here Get the box out of the blue and I'm so Opening it as fast as I can was like my nails with my teeth Open it up and I see it was from goat and I see a champion shoe What's this and I go on my email and said delivered and I'm like so what happened here is Pretty much at the uh distribution center. They swapped that box with my Travis Scott's And some goat employee went home with the $2,000 pair of shoes And then goat was like, sorry There's nothing I can do about that because you don't have the serial number and I'm like, leave this the serial number Wasn't attached to my box on purpose like when I had to Put a what do you call that on the credit card? Just mark it as fraud. Mark it as fraud and then they come to my go to account So screw go Guys, thank you. Honestly, this was this was very helpful I feel I feel better after getting you know after after making my addiction getting it out of my chest People have really wanted to see that for a long time. So I figured it was it was time and we had Caesar here. So Why not force you to To do it Okay, well, thank you guys for watching. I appreciate this support. I um I hope you guys are not judging me that much from afar. I hope you like my collection um Yeah, if there's any shoe that I need to get if there's any That that I missed you send it to me. I'm gonna I'll look at it Like send me the link or actually send me a shoe. I'm a size six woman's It's a four and a half men Four and a half men or four What a four and a half four and a half men I like pretty much anything and everything the crazier the better for your shoe designer or if you Want to buy me something send it to the gym. I'll Give you a shout out in the next video No, but thank you so much appreciate you guys and I'll see you guys next time as always. Bye

=== FILE: Straight To The Point Movements For Huge Triceps ｜ Tips From Stefi Cohen [RlCEOyLEpJo].txt ===

 let's be real, everybody wants bigger arms, so listen up. Whether you want to have a stronger bench press or you simply want to own a pair of horseshoes that would make sea biscuit jealous, this video is for you. So here are my top three exercises to build massive triceps. Number one, skull crusher. By getting the shoulder into a more flexed position, we will be working the tricep group in their most lengthened position. This allows us to impart more mechanical tension specifically through the long head of the triceps, which is the only tricep head that crosses the shoulder joint as well as the elbow joint. You want to make sure that you're moving with control and intent as you allow the weight to stretch your shoulder into a slightly more flexion at the bottom of the movement. So try this movement with an easy bar, but do yourself a favor and don't actually crush your skull. Get it? Number two, we have the cable pushdown. This is a classic movement and is a staple in tricep training and for good reason. While the skull crusher works the tricep group in a more lengthened range, the cable pushdown focuses on the muscle contraction through mid-range. The key here is slightly hinging at the hips so that the rope or straight bar is slightly in front of you. If you're using a rope, you can even get a little bit of abduction into that final squeeze. Finally, we have the cable tricep kickback. The kickback is no longer just for step aerobics. By putting the shoulder in a hyper-extended position, we put the tricep group in a shortened position and can generate a pretty intense contraction at their end range. I absolutely love doing these on one arm at a time to really focus on that lockout. As with many other isolation exercises, cables are often superior to dumbbells to maintain constant tension on the muscle you're trying to train. So there you have it, the ingredients for the best tricep pump that you will ever have. As always, thank you guys for watching. Thanks for your support. Make sure you tag and share this video as many times as you can. And as always, I'll catch you guys on the next video. Peace. You're like, I'm in vain. Stephanie going here. Welcome back. Today, I'm going to be taking you through my workout and I want to show you a little bit about what I've been up to and the type of training that I'm doing out of now.

=== FILE: Strength & Condition Training With Pro Fighters Randy Costa & Ivan Baranchyk ｜ Workout Ideas w Stefi [xDUJ9G3X-H0].txt ===

 I can do this with my eyes closed... I can do this with my eyes closed... I've been in a dunnett, I've seen it... What's going on my babies? Welcome to another YouTube video. Today I'm gonna be taking you guys through our strength and conditioning sessions... These are workouts adapted from our hybrid athlete program that's coming out pretty soon. Hopefully sooner than I expect. So we have a cool little group of four incredible athletes here doing the workout today. We have Hogan Gracie, we have Randy Costa, we have Ivan Baranchik, and we have Charlie... I forgot his last name. And Charlie Dixon. All coming from different sports backgrounds. Hogan coming from mixed martial arts background, specifically Jiu Jitsu, Randy mixed martial arts. I actually don't know what his combat sport background is. I think wrestling. I'm gonna ask him. I think wrestling. Obviously Charlie's a part of it. And Ivan is a straight up boxer, one of the best in the world. So really interesting mix of people. But you know, I always say that the principles are many, the methods... The principles are few, the methods are many. So we are sticking to the standard, the basics of strength and conditioning. We're trying to give these athletes a broad strength base and get their conditioning. Get their conditioning up in their offseason. Obviously the goal here is not to train super specific to their sport, but to give them enough conditioning. And like I said, a broad strength base from which they can then work from when the season begins. So we're breaking down their training into three sessions a week. We have a lower body session just today, an upper body session, and then we have a speed session. Slash full body. So today we're focusing on squats. Today we're doing safety bar above squats to challenging triple. This is I think the second time that they're squatting with me. And they have a lot of work to do. I mean, I'm not surprised. Most combat sports programs... EYE! Most strengthening and conditioning programs out there for combat athletes don't really prioritize strength. There's big misconceptions out there about the role that strength plays in combat sports or in any sport really. And it just comes from people being uneducated and not staying up to date with current best practices. So every single athlete in the world, every single traditional athlete in the world does strength training to a pretty high level. Like trying to push their strengths to a high level. So obviously those same principles should apply to combat sports athletes. That's what we're trying to do here. So excited to be a part of their journey as a coach. Something that I've always wanted to do. I'm really enjoying the interaction between us and Simon and I who are coaching the class and the athletes. And just kind of trying to problem solve and make them try to minimize the weaknesses and the holes that they have in their training currently. This conditioning piece is going to be 20 minutes long. We're going to go every minute on the minute. That means that every minute you have 60 seconds to complete the amount of reps that we have. We have 60 seconds to complete 10 to 11 calories on the assault bike. 60 seconds to complete 6 reps of the sandbag clean. Pretty heavy weight. 50 double unders and 15 kettlebell swings all the way up. Ideally you want to get this in about 40 seconds. So pace it too. Don't go all out and get this in 10 seconds and then you're just gas for the next round. Ideally you're trying to get 40 seconds of the sandbag clean. For this one, probably 30 seconds. You don't want to be taking the whole minute to get 6 reps. 50 double unders. You guys all know how to do double unders. Double unders. Double unders. Probably about 30 seconds should take you. We'll do rowing. Probably about 12-13 calories. Same thing about 40 seconds of work. Less than 40 seconds. And then 15 kettlebell swings. So these will be about 30 seconds. So these are about 30-ish 40 seconds. These are 40-45. And we're going to do 5 rounds. Treat every round like it's a round in the fight. That's what it's going to be like. It'S4 minutes of getting tired as fuck in the clinch or wrestling on the ground grappling or throwing guy. This is going to be heavy. Then again tired. And then something heavier or more explosive. So every round is like a round in the fight. That's what we're going to treat that way. Any questions? Let's go. Let's go. Okay. That could be good. That's it? I said they're pretty good. But it's not for time. And... You got one more minute like that then I'll take the plate off and you do your cut out. Finishing out with a core portion. Nothing too crazy. I wanted to do something with them that targets both their hips and their core. So we're doing marches with a sandbag carry. And then we're doing side to side med ball tosses. Reactive. That's it. 4 minutes here. 3 minutes there. And then a quick jog around the block. And that's it. Training is done. That's all for today. Pretty complete training session. Really happy with how the boys performed today. And stoked to continue seeing how they progress and sharing their journey and our journey as coaches. So thank you guys for watching. If you guys liked this video make sure to click the like button. If you really really really like it, subscribe to the channel. And as always I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye. Fuck I look like stressin' I be finessin' Don't know when my sex is Build like a blessing Fuck I look like stressin' I be finessin' Got my muscle flexin' My money stretchin' Yeah, ain't shit sweet Ain't shit funny Yeah, it's blue kiss on my hunnid-

=== FILE: Strongest Women Vs 800 LB Fish ｜ BlacktipH , Kristen Nun & Sarah Backman [xtiHebCIGpM].txt ===

 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n I will come up to this sweet sweet song of row row row your phone Put some sunscreen on will you 5 59 and we're obviously running late thanks to Hayden the pooping queen Hayden I didn't do my hair this morning I set my pace to match whatever you do oh yeah I could have gone up and out the door in two minutes nice patch thank you is it on red yeah essential is there with the sickness medication and the rich cracker just in case you know perfect yeah yeah so last year we did strongest men versus strongest fish this year strongest women versus strongest fish we got Steffi Cohen strongest woman on the planet pound for pound eight-time world champion arm wrestler Sarah backman and Kristen then she's got these yeah there you go yeah let's go all right guys so my name is Josh I'm black to beige and I catch big fish most famous fishermen I would say so sometimes I would say so sometimes but uh here's the reality guys we're going to put these girls up against the monster fish I mean they're going to be catching fish up with this way if it's under 300 pounds you can sit at small they're going to catch fish bigger than the what do you think you are we equipped to deal with that kind of I haven't seen you in action I've only seen but you've seen these but you've seen that's impressive I feel like that's all the proof that you need to know that I'm ready for it I mean last year we hit the men come out and they struggle so if you guys do it you're better than the men so the technique is to use your legs more right than your legs you want to use your your entire body yeah but show me the position you know what let's uh let's do a little let's do a little practice okay okay so I want to start you guys out the same way the guys did it last time now I have another one where it's a lot easier but we're gonna see you can do it now let's see here hold on that's gotta come up a little bit hold on predictions okay so this now listen listen see this rod I see this these cuts in them okay yes this plate has these pins yes so you want to make sure this rods pin okay this rod is out of the pin it gets very dangerous okay you're gonna want to back up a little bit back up you need to back up here hold on I need you to have enough room you can come up here a little more hold on I need you to have enough room you can squat you don't squat right now I can't squat well no you need you need to lean back too okay okay ready now okay you want you're going to put two hands where where did I put my hand two hands up here two hands yeah I think I think we got yeah you're doing great I'm not natural baby ready hold on hold on I'm already I'm not ready what do you say do I look like I've been doing this my whole life check out this form check out this form hey I mean I think you're gonna be pretty well set on me because how strong your legs are I should have brought my lifting belt hold on hold on Josh you gotta let me get in position okay that's impressive yeah because you want to try I'll give it a shot here we go okay dude yeah pretty good okay that's pretty good well yeah yeah at least you get to be right yeah yeah Sarah how did it feel for you I mean I did way worse oh fucking easy you're kidding me so easy how do you can you teach us how to spot each other as that fish goes straight down your shoulders are gonna want to go forward so all you gotta do is pull your back oh we're gonna jump in the water yeah that's insane so you think I see how the water visibility is good water visibility look at this thing JR come here you want to jump in the water yeah Dresson how are you feeling what do what do you think what do you think you got what it takes let's see your hip thrust let me see your hip thrust yeah nice I've been doing my hip thrust my squats all sorts of things and guess what now I guess I'm gonna go in real life you're definitely real in life you got it come on stepy oh oh like you've been doing it for years nice nice oh there's a bunch of them no mad he is no he is no he is no he is no he wants to jump in all right guys so so we're gonna do the same so we're gonna do the same rules that we did with the strong spin rod touches the gun so the gun over here side jump strike one three strikes really sound simple we'll cross that row and it reaches there you know your job is to use your strength and try to keep it off the bottom here hold the arm as you can if you touch the gun it'll strike one make sense make sense Kristen you're going first you ready I'm ready let's go so it's either goliaths or sharps but most likely the way they're hanging it's goliaths a little boogie right here got you got me we'll put it in that corner over there and I'll know what do you think big and catch one I think you all three of you as a team have a pretty good shot at it I think so I feel pretty I feel pretty yeah yeah I felt secure you're making good yeah yeah yeah I didn't feel like I was gonna get ripped into the water I was getting real up in there you know okay you gotta do what you gotta do now pull back just do it down yeah pull back yeah We're camping up there. We're camping up there. Oh there is a bear. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Come on! Come on! Come on! Ah! Ah! Come on, guys. Come on. Come on. You got this. You got this. Keep it up. Good job. Come on. You got it. You got this. Oh my God. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Yeah, keep it going. There it is. Oh my God. Woohoo! Woohoo! That's a big one. Huh? Okay. Whatever. Have a good one, man. Okay. Got it. Woohoo! Keep going. You got it. Come on. Come on. You got it. Fight him. Fight him. Fight him. Fight him. Come on. Come on. We got it. You got to stand up. You got to stand up or you have no leverage. Okay. Use your body weight. Get up. Ah! You got it. What? You're going to have to stand up. Oh! What is that? Oh, shit. Come on. Come on. Come on. Real. Real. You got to go. Go, go, go. Get up. Get up. Get up. Real. Real. Real. There he is. There. You got to go. Not back up here arm wrestling. No. No. Oh my god. No. This is the worst. No. This is what I did in the last one. What did you do? It was falling down. There you are. Oh, yeah. I saw that. Yeah. You kind of went to yourself under so the rod couldn't go down. Yeah. That was sick. What's up? Real. Real, buddy. Woo! What you got? Come on. Come on. What you got? Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. It's trying. Come on, Seppy. Hold that guy. Woo! Come on. He's almost there. I see him. Come on. I see him. Come on. He's almost sent you away. Go. Go. You got that one up quick. Look at him fast. You got to jump through. Whoa! I got a lot of water. There you go. Stop. There we go. Step in the... That's a nice slide. You can do it. Really? I'm going to scale up here and it's dead. This is the world's best. You're really good. You're really good. He's there and he's finished. Look. Look. Look.

=== FILE: The Most Effective Full Body Workout ｜ Workout Ideas From Stefi Cohen [XGX8_GDR8Rk].txt ===

 you look at my f***ing veins. Stephie Cohen here, welcome back. Today I'm gonna be taking you through my workout and I wanna show you a little bit about what I've been up to and the type of training that I'm doing as of now. As some of you guys know, I've been transitioning into boxing for the last year, but that doesn't mean that I'm not in the weight room. I'm still a powerlifter and a strength athlete at heart and it's still a priority for me to come into the gym and lift heavy and maintain my hard earned muscle that I've been building for the last 10 years. So as of now, I train in the weight room about three times per week. I try to do one upper body session, one lower body session, and one full body session, which is today. It's what I'm gonna be taking you guys through. So most of my sessions are around 45 minutes to an hour long. They're usually done in the afternoons after I've already boxed in the morning. And the main goal or the main aim for these sessions is to preserve strength and preserve muscle mass while at the same time helping me with my boxing. So a lot of single leg stands, exercises for my lower body, obviously a lot of unilateral work for my upper body as well that accentuates rotation and power translation from the legs into the arms, going through the torso. And then outside of that, always some kind of rehab, rehab type exercises, bicep and tricep exercises with flowy centric, strengthen the tendons and maintain optimal health. And then exercises that challenge my range of motion in different planes, like an overhead tricep extensions and overhead presses to kind of counteract all of this plane motion that I've been doing in boxing. So don't wanna bore you guys too much with me talking, so let's get straight into the workout, follow me. We're gonna start this workout with some belt squat, hip focus. So for this, I'm actually gonna have my feet a little bit wider than normal and I'm gonna focus on really sitting down onto my hips rather than letting my knees come forward, which uses more of your squats for that motion. I like holding underneath rather than over because it makes me use this less and makes me use my legs a little bit more. So for this rep scheme, we're gonna do three sets of 15 reps. Gonna do all high volume today. Come on. Brutal four sets of 15 in the belt squat. Now we're gonna do some walking lunges, 15 reps per leg. I'm not gonna choose a weight that's too heavy because I have four sets to do. And I know I'm gonna be feeling it. We're gonna grab 30 pounder dumbbells for this exercise. So again, for these type of walking lunges, there's no right or wrong way of performing a walking lunge, but rather the way that is most conducive to your own goals. So the focus of this workout, for your lower body, today is gonna be posterior chain, so glutes and hamstrings more than quads. So again, the angle that has the greatest change in motion is the joint that's gonna be doing the most amount of work and therefore the muscles that are gonna be most active. So if I wanted to use my quads the most, if you watching from the side, now I do a squat and I bring my knees forward. This is the joint that's gonna exhibit the largest change in motion. So the quads are gonna be working harder. Now, if I shoot my hips backwards and I try to keep them in line, then the greatest angle arc of change is gonna be coming from my hips, which means that my glutes and my hamstrings are gonna be doing most of the work. So for the purpose of doing walking lunges, if I'm doing a walking lunge, I'm letting, this is not bad by the way, it just means that it's more focused towards the quads. If you do it like that. If I try to stay back on my hip more and really focus on pushing up with that glute, then it becomes a much more glute focus, glute centered exercise. Excuse me. For our last lower body exercise for today, we're going to do a variation of a vulgar and split squat with a more kind of explosive nest, explosive nest to it. So it's going to be a kind of like a single leg jump with reciprocated arm motion to develop speed and power in the legs. It's going to look something like this. And I do five or six reps on each leg. Keep for that. Try not to let your knees cave when you're dropping. Try to go through a full range of motion focusing on exploding with the leg that's in front, trying to use the rear leg as little as possible. Commonly neglected position for a lot of strength athletes is the overhead position. You know, we very rarely train anything in this particular range of motion. The reason why it's so important that we actually do is because when it comes to shoulder health and shoulder stability, the only way that you can actually work on your shoulder stability is putting your shoulder in an unstable position to begin with. So this is most stable and this is least stable, a position that we rarely train in, that we commonly have a lot of mobility limitations that may or may not become problems in the future. But if we have the technology to avoid that or to at least mitigate some of the risks associated with a repetitive motion of benching and lifting really heavy, then why not just add it to your routine as another exercise, you know, that you alternate into your training. So for this motion, you want the cable, the line of the cable to be directly underneath your hand. So that line of pull stays consistent for the entire motion of the movement. So when you're in this position, what you want to do is you want to exaggerate a little bit of the lean towards the opposite side of the shoulder that's working. Get a little bit of the stretch on your lats and really try to accentuate that straight line from wrist to elbow to then shoulder. So opening up to the side and pressing to the top, holding it there and then going back down. For the purpose of this workout, we're going to be doing three sets of 15 reps first side. So once more, Caesar stand here. Remember how important the line of pull is in order to maintain constant tension throughout the entire range of motion so that we can maximize our gains. Make sure you flare your lats. You're starting from a position where your elbow is already in line with your shoulder rather than here. You want to be up here and then pressing right from there making sure that your armpit is flared out. Moving on to our biceps exercises for the day. We're going to do a cable curl in the fully lengthened position of the bicep. So what this means is your bicep is responsible for elbow flexion and supination. So in order to train it, we've got to start from a, in order to train it throughout its full range of motion, we start from a pronated angle and a fully extended angle into a supinated and fully flexed angle. Now there's different ways, different angles that you can work on the bicep. You can work it on its fully lengthened position. You can work it on its mid-range position and you can work it on its fully shortened position. For the sake of this exercise, we're going to be working on its fully lengthened position through its entire range of motion. So starting again with a pronated wrist, fully extended arm into full flexion, supination. Now in order to maintain constant tension in the full range of motion with the cable, there's no point on bringing the cable all the way up here because if you follow the line, the trajectory of the cable at this point in time, there's no tension being exerted on the bicep. So there's no point on us even training in that particular motion. So as soon as gravity or in this case, the tension of the cable stops exerting force into the bicep, that's the point that we can stop the movement. So we go from here to here. On this spot? Did you get my picture? Nick, did you get a picture? So final two exercises that we're going to do today are going to be shoulder exercises using the cable. It's my favorite method to train the shoulders. So we're going to first start with rear delts. So same principles apply when it comes to using the cable for the purpose of hypertrophy. Using the same concept that I explained during the bicep drill, we've got to follow the line of pull of the machine that we're using and the goal should be to maintain constant tension through the entire lift. So I want to go full range of motion so if the rear delt does abduction of the shoulder, abduction of the shoulder, I'm going to start in that position of full abduction so with my arm across my body and from there I'm going to take it to full abduction up to 90 degrees. Final exercise for today we're going to do, we're going to train our front delts. There's two ways that we can use the cable to train front delts. We can either stand right in front of the cable again using that same line of pull, maybe using a handle so you can keep your arm, your hand pronated. You can do it like this or you can use the scapular plane which is the plane where you put your hand at 30 degrees of flexion in front of your body. So we can be right here 30 degrees in front of the plane of the body and we're going to train it right there. For this movement it's okay to have your elbow slightly flexed or bent. You don't want to keep your elbow fully extended, creates a lot of tension there on the ligament on your elbow. So you want a slight bend, 30 degrees of flexion in front of your frontal plane to be on the scapular plane of motion. And then don't be greedy with the weight, you should be doing a weight that you can perform 15 to 20 repetitions, had a relatively challenging intensity but you want to be able to complete 304 sets at the same weight. So I hope that was entertaining, I hope that you learned something new today. If you have any more comments, questions or concerns feel free to drop it down in the comment section below and if you want to follow me, follow me at Steffi Cohen on Instagram and on YouTube. Thank you guys for watching, appreciate your support. Yeah, that's what you don't do it. Thank you Simon.

=== FILE: The Most Effective Lower Body Workout ｜ Workout Ideas From Stefi Cohen [H2J-K7WRaNc].txt ===

 what's up, my babies? Welcome back to another YouTube video. Today we're here at Hybrid Performance Method, and again, I'm gonna take you guys through a lower body workout today. The focus of this workout is gonna be speed and power, focusing on the hinge. So the main movement today that we're gonna be doing is a trap bar deadlift, and then we're gonna accessorize it with several four or five exercises for your hips, so meaning your glutes, your hamstrings, and your back. So let's get to it. So personally, I like using a trap bar deadlift that has high handles, because it allows me to be in a better position, especially if I'm working on speed and power, which is gonna be the focus of this session. So ultimately, you wanna pick a weight around 60 to 70% of your max that you can move fluently for the amount of reps that are gonna be prescribed. In this case, we're gonna be doing sets of five repetitions, so something that is challenging, but at the same time that you can move with a lot of speed, because that's what we're gonna be focusing on. So again, first movement is just gonna be a trap bar deadlift. Should probably put weights on it. So before we jump into the superset, which is gonna be trap bar deadlift superset with broad jumps, we're just gonna warm up the trap bar deadlift to the amount of weight that we wanna do for the session. So like I said, 60, 70%, or if you don't know what your one-remax trap bar deadlift is, which I don't either, just go by feel, something that you can move for those five reps with appropriate speed. As far as resting between sets goes, you wanna make sure that you're fully recovered in between sets so that you could actually tap in to the energy system that is required for you to exert the most amount of power and speed that you possible again. So this is gonna be in the range of two, anywhere from two to three minutes of rest to make sure that you're ready to go for the next set. So don't rush this workout, especially this first part with a compound movement. You wanna make sure that the exercise that you're doing is actually doing what it's supposed to. Okay, so this is likely gonna be my top set of five on the trap bar deadlift. So what we're gonna do is as soon as we're done doing our last rep off trap bar deadlift, we're gonna go into our broad jumps. So the goal with the broad jumps is obviously to jump as far as you can. But the main thing to take into consideration is that explosive hip portion. So a lot of people, when they do broad jumps, they actually stay in a flexed hip position, and that's not what we want. So they jump like this. What you really wanna do is reach full extension of the hips so that we can actually put into function the strength that we were working on in the trap bar deadlift, which was hip extension. We were working on our glutes and our hamstrings to extend our hips with power and strength. Now we're actually applying it to what those muscles are actually intended to do in function. So when you do the broad jump, think about it fully extending your hips at the top to get as much length as possible. You're gonna glide. And for this, we're gonna do bounding broad jumps. So working on our reactive speed. Okay. Spicy. If you don't have a lot of space in your gym to do the broad jump, what you can do is in place vertical jumps or high jumps. The same thing, trying to jump as high as you can in one spot. One, two, three, four. First exercise that we're gonna do is gonna be a dumbbell, toes elevated, RDL. We're actually gonna put something in between our legs so we can emphasize engaging our adductors in the movement. The adductors, a muscle group that tends to be neglected during leg day, but it's a muscle that actually contributes to performance significantly. The adductor, Magnus, is the muscle group that is the most active at the very bottom of a squad because it's one of the prime hip extensors. So it's a muscle like any other that needs to be trained, not only for the purpose of performance, but also for the purpose of overall health and longevity. So anything that you have that you can put in between your legs is just to serve as a tactile cue for when you're doing a movement as a reminder to squeeze your thighs together. So when we do the dumbbell RDL, as opposed to a regular barbell RDL in which we're essentially trying to make the lift as efficient as possible by keeping that barbell as close to our center of mass as we possibly can. In the dumbbell RDL, we're gonna take a slightly different approach where we're gonna keep the load or the weight is gonna be the dumbbells. You wanna have that further away from your center of mass which is gonna be centered around the fulcrum on your sacrum. You wanna choose a plate or any sort of surface that allows you to elevate your toes about two inches. I find that this allows me to get a deeper stretch on the hamstrings and moreover target them more efficiently. As far as the amount of weight that you're lifting, just pick something that you can do for eight repetitions, fairly comfortably. For this, two exercises that we're gonna be doing, we're gonna do four rounds. So it's gonna be four rounds of eight dumbbell toes elevated RDLs and 16 med bull rotational slams. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. We're going to do one more circuit and then we're going to finish up with some four strengthening drills. So the next circuit is actually going to be three different exercises. We're going to do a banded kettlebell swing, a Russian swing, so just until eye level. Again, focusing on that explosive strength coming from the hips, trying to move that kettlebell as fast as we can. Then we're going to do Nordic hamstring curls and we're going to finish with a front loaded walking lunge. So let's talk about first the execution of the exercises. For the banded kettlebell swing, you can choose a medium strength band. I chose this purple one. I don't really know exactly how many pounds of pressure it has or it provides, but what you want to do, you want to open your legs at about slightly wider than hip width apart. Step on the band really well. From here, the most important part, most common mistake I see when people do a kettlebell swing is that they squat when they're going to do the movement. You just got to remember that the kettlebell swing is a hand movement, so that means that the most motion needs to be coming from the hip. So it's more similar really to an RDL, kind of what we were doing back there than it is to a squat. So the kettlebell at all points in time should be really close to your crotch area. So yeah, you want to bend your knees a little bit and you want to lean your torso forward, but you don't want to bend your knees. So you always want to keep your knees soft, not fully extended, but also not bent. Just soft, not locked out. So from there, remember just to keep the kettlebell closer to your groin and then just focus on that explosive hip extension, really emphasizing, squeezing the glutes and extending the hips. And then the final exercise is going to be a front loaded walking lunge with posterior expansion. So you really want to hold snug onto whatever you're holding. It could be a sandbag, it could be a med ball, it could be your partner, your dog, whatever it is that you have at hand, but really make sure that you're rounding your upper back and breathing into whatever it is that you're holding to expand your rib cage and your diaphragm. So from here. Okay so for this movement we're going to do also eight reps, pointers. Just make sure that your hips are staying extended for the entire range of motion. What you don't want to do is to bend your hips like this and then bend the knees and then extend. You essentially want to think about yourself as kind of a board, a stiff board and stay in this exact same position from start to finish of the rep. So you're going to be here, go as low as you feel comfortable and back up. Because this is challenging for you, you can also grab a PVC pipe to assist you on the way back. Alright so this last super set is going to be two core exercises. The first one is going to be a staggered stance gable crunch and the second one is going to be a side plank. So we're going to hold the side plank 30 seconds on each side and we're going to do 15 reps per side of this exercise. So when I say staggered stance kneeling, gable crunch. So often times people do it like this, but if you put your knee one knee slightly in front of the other then you can bias one oblique side more than the other. So what you're going to do, you're going to bend your elbows, you're going to put your hands on your temples, stagger your knees. I like putting my toes on the ground and from there you want to keep your hips stacked on the same position. Try not to lean too much to one side and the other and from there you're going to crunch on a diagonal trying to get opposite elbow to opposite knee and halfway through. You don't have to hyperextend your back, you can keep it in a slightly bent position. And from there you're going to go here. And from there you're going to do 15 reps. All right, that was all for today guys. Hope you guys enjoyed this workout. It's a super solid one. Explosive speed, power, hypertrophy for your lower body. You're welcome. You like to learn not going to be able to walk tomorrow or the next day because likely you don't do this type of workouts, which is a good thing. Okay. If you like this type of workouts then you might be interested in knowing that we're releasing a new program called Hybrid Athlete that is basically the same exact scheme. So like all of our hybrid programs, this program is going to be centered or have a strength backbone component, really big component to it. But it's going to be catered more towards function and performance. So how do we take that strength that we've been building and that muscle hypertrophy that we've been building and turn it into something applicable to you running faster, jumping higher, punching harder, throwing faster, whatever that might be. So it's an extremely well thought of and well rounded program that will not only make you look better naked, stronger, but also make you perform better. And it's centered around the principles that I've personally been training as and especially with my boxing and the way that I've been able to maintain a muscular physique even though I'm doing a ton of cardio. Also, maintain a good level of strength. I hope you guys enjoyed. Hope you liked this video. If you did hit the like button, subscribe to the channel and as always I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: To Track or Not To Track Your Macros？ ｜ Stefi Cohen Explains [fdxBh6XJ5ro].txt ===

 ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus is not always 100% accurate for several reasons. While caloric intake is largely dictated by the foods that we eat, it can also be affected by what types of food we are eating. Thus, energy intake may not always be equal to energy utilization. For example, the body tends to absorb more energy from cooked and processed foods compared to raw or more minimally processed foods. Yet another reason to strive for a wide variety of wholesome minimally processed foods as much as possible, especially if weight loss is the goal. It is also important to realize that food labels are often inaccurate by as much as 25% in terms of calories and micronutrient amounts. In restaurants, underestimate calories of meals by as much as 18%. Our human imperfections can also complicate things as it has been shown that adults miss remember and miscount food amounts by as much as 1000 calories per day. That can really add up and cause some frustration in the long run. So what is one to do? Weigh every morsel of food to the gram and live life tracking calories to the T, not at all. Remember, the trick is to find the nutrition lifestyle that works best for you in the long run. If having a food scale with you wherever you go isn't going to be realistic, let's be honest, that definitely would not be realistic for 99% of us. There are other methods of tracking that allow for increased flexibility. Keep in mind that none of these methods are going to be entirely effortless. Some may be simpler than others, but their effectiveness relies on your ability to use them correctly and accurately. There may be some friction during the initial stages of building these habits as you increase your awareness of portion sizes and nutrient content of different types of food, but making choices that will be more conducive to your goals will become relatively second nature with practice and time. Let's talk about the no tracking necessary approach that I'm talking about. If you find that more regimented tracking is not for you, you may choose the non-tracking route. While you won't be aiming for very specific numbers to hit in terms of calories or macros, this approach does come with some fundamental guidelines. You want to make sure that you're including a serving of lean protein with every meal. You want to have one to two servings of fruits and veggies with every meal, avoid snacking, and instead focus on eating complete meals. Focus on eating wholesome, minimally processed foods most of the time, about 80% of the time. Emphasize having a bit more carbohydrates around your workouts, so pre and post. Try to eat three to six meals per day based on your schedule and preferences while following the guidelines above. Keep eating out to a minimum. If you plan on going out to eat, then adjust the rest of your day of eating accordingly. Fewer calories, higher satiety index. While you will not be required to weigh and record any food with the non-tracking approach, using the hand portion guide below will help you gauge your portion sizes more consistently and honestly. Let's face it, we all wish a serving size of peanut butter was a little bit bigger. In terms of tracking protein and calories, if you are comfortable with tracking a few numbers throughout the day, you may try the protein and calories method. This approach is slightly more hands-on than the non-tracking method described above, requiring daily tracking of protein intake and overall calories consumed during the day. As long as the protein target is attained, the athlete can choose which ratio of carbs and fats he or she would like to eat on that day, allowing for that increased flexibility. This method speaks to the fact that when adequate protein intake is attained, the remaining calories can be a variety of ratios of fat to carbs, and no one ratio has been deemed superior in terms of weight loss. The athlete should continue to strive for consistency with the seven principles listed above. In terms of tracking macronutrients, if you are willing to weigh and record the majority of your food, tracking macronutrients may be a feasible option for you. With this tracking method, you have three very specific quantitative targets to aim for and meet daily for each macronutrient. We're talking about your carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Macronutrient targets are usually represented in terms of caloric percentages, which will provide some mathematical efforts on the athlete's part. For example, with a balanced macronutrient split, an athlete would typically aim for 40% of his or her total calories to come from carbs, 30% of calories to come from protein, and 30% of calories to come from fat each day. So if the calorie goal of that day is 2000 calories, you must multiply your total calories by each percentage, then divide by the particular macronutrient caloric density. So depending on the athlete's preferences, the macronutrient split can be adjusted. For instance, a lower carb approach may look more like 30% carbs, 40% protein, and 30% fat. In terms of macro ranges, hitting a specific macronutrient target each day is overwhelming to some and tedious to others. Some people who have moved away from rigid macro tracking have reported nearly force feeding themselves at night in order to hit the macros. On the other hand, some athletes found that they were depriving themselves of food even when they were genuinely hungry, just because it would put them over their macros. For this reasons, our hybrid nutrition coaches will often recommend a range of macronutrients to hit rather than a specific number. While the magnitude of these ranges can vary based on the goals and experience level of the client, recommendations could range from 500 to 700 calories, 10 to 20 grams of each macro daily. The client then is allowed to be a bit more intuitive and flexible, eating more or less based on his or her hunger throughout the day. Reaching a specific minimum amount of protein is typically recommended as is sticking to the seven nutrition principles listed above. The five days on, two days off method. This strategy is a delicate balance of flexibility and structure, where the client eats in a relatively large deficit during the week, hence five days on and two off. And they eat closer to their maintenance calories on the weekends. This is often a feasible option for clients who have a traditional nine to five work schedule during the week, but like to go out or drink or spend some time with family and friends during the weekends without having to closely monitor or track their intake. Although the name may suggest that the weekends are somewhat of a free for all strategy, this strategy still requires that the client consistently follows the seven principles listed at the beginning of the segment. It is possible to nullify the caloric deficit that was achieved during the week in just a few indulgent meals. So maintaining awareness of intake and healthy moderation is still paramount. If you are interested in a more involved, hands-on tracking approach, you will need some tools to get started. First, make sure you have some tools at hand, such as a food scale, measuring cup and spoons. These items will help increase your accuracy with tracking food amounts and give you specific quantities to enter into your tracking app. While some people prefer food journaling with pen and paper, modern technology has made tracking way easier than ever before. Several of these apps have huge databases from countless foods from different brands, including many restaurant items, which further increases your accuracy with tracking. Many also use scanning features that allow you to use your camera to scan foods barcodes, which automatically searches for you, the specific item, saving you time and effort in your tracking endeavors. In terms of apps, my fitness pal is the most commonly used tracking app. But there are some others like Lifesum, Fitbit, and MyPlate that offer similar services. Download a few of them, try them, and see which one you like best. Keep in mind that the accuracy of your app is only as good as the accuracy of your entries, which is why your measurements are important. Logging a deep fried chicken drumstick as a raw, boneless, skinless chicken thigh is going to create some significant discrepancies. So when in doubt, try to log your food as accurately as possible. I do wanna point out that tracking should never become an obsession. If you feel like your relationship with tracking food is becoming unhealthy or that you may be showing signs of developing an eating disorder, you should definitely consult your physician. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone. I'm gonna go ahead and get my phone.

=== FILE: Training Intensity & Volume Explained By Stefi Cohen [sO6Zdz6A5iA].txt ===

 Today I'm going to talk about how to balance training intensity and volume. Periodization or the organization of your workouts in powerlifting training is often underappreciated or worse, completely butchered. On one hand, we can find lifters running the same mononus-sema-repsin sets for months on end with no credence to the principles of progressive overload, wondering why they aren't making any progress. On the other hand, we have lifters who redline every single workout, making out at an RP20 for each and every set that they do, also wondering why they're hitting a plateau in their performance. Finding a harmonious balance between training intensity, how heavier lifting, and volume, how much work we're doing, quantified by total reps, sets, and loads is the key to making continuous progress while minimizing risk of overtraining and injury. This balance is also crucial to ensure that the lifter is as prepared as possible for competition day. The ideal combination of volume and intensity will shift over the course of a training macrocycle to mitigate fatigue as much as possible. Progress and fatigue tend to be inversely related. So if our goal is to optimize performance and progress, excessive fatigue is our enemy. This is why the athlete who frequently exceeds his or her own capacity for training volume and intensity won't succeed in the long run. So more is not always better. Believe me, because I had to learn that. That's not bad. It feels great to push past barriers and training and this can be done strategically, but what matters most is that you execute just enough volume to drive the desired adaptations without impeding upon your performance in future sessions. This target is known as your maximum or maximum recoverable volume or MRV. At the other end of the spectrum, there's athletes who are well below this capacity and unable to provide a strong enough stimulus to stimulate muscle growth and strength. This athlete may need a boost in volume to achieve the appropriate loading dosage. This concept is known as your minimum effective volume or MEV, the threshold of work that must be reached in training to make steady measurable improvements. Athletes have shown that anywhere from 5 to 20 sets per week can be enough to drive strength and hypertrophy gains, but that's a pretty large range. Moreover, high volume is relative and individual to each athlete. A high amount of volume for one person may be well below another athlete's MEV. So instead of defining yourself an arbitrary number of sets to break through a training plateau, try boosting your current volume by 20% for 8 to 12 weeks and then reassessing from there. Now, back to how volume and intensity will ideally intermingle with a periodized training program. During the accumulation phase, volume is high and intensity is moderate. This 4 to 6 week phase is when the lifter sees the greatest gains in work capacity, level acquisition and hypertrophy. Next comes the intensification phase, which is when, you guessed it, intensity increases. Well, the number of sets slightly decreases during this 3 to 6 weeks. Overall work done is set to increase during this phase. Fatigue is high, but things really start to come together in terms of noticeable progress. As the competition approaches, volume will be tapered back even more during the 1 to 2 weeks of the peaking phase. This is to prevent unwanted fatigue accumulation, which could be detrimental to an athlete's performance during midday. During this time, intensity stays high to provide adequate stimulus for maximal force production. But performing fewer sets helps mitigate the risk of excessive tissue damage and subsequent inflammation that can be associated with high volume training. If you follow the program and everything goes as anticipated, which I might add it rarely ever does, so be ready for hiccups, you will be perfectly peaked for your testing day and as prepared as possible to take that barbell for a ride. Volume and intensity play a cute game of cat and mouse during the training program, and that's just to be expected. So I hope this video helped clarify at least the rationale behind training periodization. As always, thank you guys for watching, thank you guys for the support. If you have any questions, drop them down below or reach out to me on any of my social media channels and I'll try to get back to you. As always, thank you guys and I'll see you guys on the next video.

=== FILE: WUCV With Stefi Cohen [RPsRAhHZaes].txt ===

 Not eating junk food is hard, so most people are out of shape. Building muscle is hard, so most people have a sloppy, soft, dad-bod. Practicing is hard, discipline is hard, saying no is hard, staying focused is hard, pushing yourself out of your comfort zone is hard, doing simple mundane tasks over and over until you achieve the desired outcome is hard. But there's only two options in life, hard or soft. The great American poem Ice Cube once said, if it ain't hard, it's soft. I choose hard every fucking time. I know you do too, so choose hard with me in 2022. Sign up for free and let me help you with a daily dose of tough love. See you there.

=== FILE: We Did A Bleacher Workout In The Desert... Try This Out  ｜ Vegas Vlog Part 2 [JUoUAe_NHMc].txt ===

 just dry it, like, pop a dry-lub, bring me sand. Fuck off, yeah? Fuck off, yeah. What the fuck? What the fuck was that? I have a blister, besides it's about Australia. I'm all my fucking fucking fuck off. I thought it would be a better idea to, like, just, you know, cut the trendy edges or whatever. It's way worse. Open now many times. It doesn't work, guys. Open now many times without stopping. Hey, the one's the last time you did some, like, intensive cardio. The background's playing hockey, when I was 18. Yeah. I've been playing hockey for so long. What about you, son? College football. Probably, what, six years ago? Six years? It's not too bad. So, five minutes in the week. We're gonna do that five rounds with a minute and 30 seconds. That was number one in the bag. It's a nice pace. Proper right out here. Woo! But lovely work. You wanna do the two pops and the other side? Yes. And the other side? Regular. Just do regular, yeah. Just do regular. And then we'll start a fresh one and then we'll do two every second. Just try it, mate. Pop a dry one, breathing in sad. I'm sad, man. So, dry here. Anyone has vaseline for my throat? No. It's good to, like, do this stuff. Well, Simon, you've been training, like, some CrossFit a little bit, but it's nice to, like, step outside of the, of what we're used to and, like, these guys are obviously in great shape, so they push us. So I did every, every other round, because I learned in my youth that it's not a good idea to try to keep up on your element. A few years back, I would have gone balls out on, like, number one and just puked. And then been like, alright, I guess I'm done. Yeah. If this was a month ago, I would have done that. Fuck off, yeah? Fuck off, yeah. Yo, that's banging. Right, Steph, ready? I'm gonna ban mode, yeah. I'll come on, man. Ready, ready, ready? I'm gonna ban mode. Fuck off, yeah? Fuck off, yeah. Fuck off, yeah. What? Two hours later. Okay guys, ready? We're hiding in Caesar's room. Because we're ten years old. Oh shit! You did it! If you know how to move, it's hard to win a fight. If you throw three or four, you can win a fight. But if you throw well, you can't move, you can't turn. You can't dodge, you can't take much more hits. But defense and movement are the most important in a fight. It's more important than the attack. You can dodge all the hits and you can win a fight. But you can't throw a thousand hits, a thousand hits, a thousand hits. That's what you do. I'm crazy! I'm crazy, Max! It's important in this fight. I see it. You know, there's some intense fashion. I'm doing an upper body day. Single arm row with landline breast. Then med bow throws with neutral grip pull ups. Then sled rows, sled push, battle ropes. Then row sprints. What session is this? Two. You never really get to be in a gym that has two machines for everything. So we're gonna take advantage of it. Sander, I'm gonna do two chest, two trice, two back, two lice, two shoulder exercises. Obviously we're skipping legs here. You get so many machines that we've never tried or even seen. You get so many machines that we've never tried or even seen. We're obviously gonna skip the leg ones. But it'll be interesting doing stuff like pullover machine, whatever you do. Really fun. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck you, shit. Oh, it's so fast. Last time we were here, we coincidentally met Flex Wheeler. And a super nice guy. We asked him if we could get a workout in with him. I'm really curious to hear some of his training philosophies and watching him train. I have so much respect for him. And everything that he's done, he actually grew up watching his videos. After years of hard work chasing records, you can now train like me. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train. I don't know how to train.

=== FILE: Welcome To My Vegas Fight Camp Training  ｜ Vegas Vlog Part 1 [xCk6xs5eu5I].txt ===

 Teyza, what do you want? Uh, where are we? Context? Ah! This doesn't look much like a training camp but I'm telling you it is. We got here a few hours ago, we're just laying by the pool in this beautiful Airbnb and we're going to just train out here today actually because there's a pretty good spot there, it's shaded, it's flat and all you need really is your hands. But tomorrow the real action starts. Tomorrow we've got two sessions planned, one in the morning, one in the afternoon with coach Rubio to just see what I can learn. You know I have a pretty similar approach to what I've done in Olympic weightlifting and in powerlifting in the sense that I like learning about other people's cues and ways of coaching so I can see what I can pick up from each of them and also I want to see what they pick up from what I maybe can be doing better or improving so I'm excited for him to see my boxing and see what he thinks. Yeah, he's great. Yeah, he's just so long. He just goes like that. He just goes like this. And I'm like... He just goes like this. And I'm like... He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He died. He, uh, me and Steph just banged at like three, four rounds jump rope at last warm-up. We done some part drills. We end up doing about four-week rounds. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. Look at that. Look at this, you guys. I like Gary's little daughter. Say to your limit, take a picture of me. Do this, do this. I'm like, no, Gary. And then he's like... I'm gonna say to your grandma... There's a different style, different style of coaching, teaching, different style of moving, different strategies in the ring, different ways of holding pads, different intensities. So, um, yeah, I mean, I don't know. I think like there's no right or wrong. Like when you get to like the highest level of coaching, everybody is good. Just a matter of, you know, what cues, you know, resonate with you the most or what cues make sense to you the most that you feel like go with your natural style. And yeah, just like picking up tips here and there, like that's the goal of visiting different gyms. I did this for 85 years for powerlifting. We traveled all around the U.S., meeting people at different gyms, you know, observing a lot, asking a lot of questions. So this is really no different from me. I'm excited to continue visiting different gyms and meeting people all along my journey and learning as much as possible. Sick. Caesar, listen. For some reason, on these trips, I always assume the mother role. Why? I fucking hate being a mother. You're not being a mother girl. No, I'm not being a mother. Hunter? Oh. And Jay, I didn't find this a woman. You didn't find this a woman. Jay got done with this woman. It was just us guys. We'll have to be cracking all the eggs in our mouths and like fucking... Who knows what else. Hey Gordon Ramsay, watch out. I'm coming for you, man. Gordon Ramsay's specialty. The main thing is the beef Wellington. Beef Wellington has to be the ultimate indulgence. One of my all-time favourite main courses and it would definitely be on my last supper menu. My version is a lot lighter and sexier. The beef Wellington is biographed. Absolutely. Is it better than a Doner kebab? It's called a Doner kebab. Doner kebab. It keeps saying Doner kebab. Doner kebab. Caesar, set a reminder to ask subterials when Jake speaks. Jake speaks. Papa al dente. What do you want, Caesar? What are you doing? Unfortunately, voluntarily choosing to suffer. You're suffering. We're going to go to the... Bro, look how short his shorts are. Dude, are those... Those are the shortest. Careful with your scrotum. Your scrotum is straight up, about to fall under. I think it's just a bit of colour. Other than your shorts. This is like... Dude, that's... They're actually super tan. Yo! I'm hazy. Like, I'm a fruity young son. I hate that. Gordon, let's go. Stop! Stop! Open now many times. That's the workout, guys. Open now many times without stopping. What do you think? Scientific. Question mark on the without stopping. After years of hard work chasing records, you can now train like me. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son.

=== FILE: Who Is Stefi Cohen？ Beyond The Barbell [F_Ka3YMz_E4].txt ===

 amstephikoin, I am a 25-time world record-holding powerlifter, the first woman to deadlift 4.4 and a half times her body weight and a doctor of physical therapy. I'm also an educator, author, podcast host, apparel designer, and business owner. I love testing myself and pushing whatever perceived limits I have in my head. As you know from watching my content, I'm passionate about educating the masses with a no BS evidence-based view on all things training and nutrition. My personal mission is to make strength accessible to everyone. That's why I created the Hybrid Performance Method. The place hundreds of thousands of strength seekers visit monthly to find progressive strength training and nutrition programs, plus tons of free content. I'm also a creative mind and love collaborating with my team and partners to develop powerful content, inspired fashion, and both fitness and nutrition tools for a stronger life. Let's make the world stronger together.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.362307Z ===
