! Coach, Dragan, tell me you're doing a review by none other than world champion power lifter, In case you missed it, I was recently called out on YouTube by some guy named Greg Duchet, who is apparently a bodybuilding coach, IFBB pro, and Gilbert Gottfried impersonator. In this video, Greg casually sits on the couch and screams about a video I made while his lady calmly prepares a delightful lunch in the background. Specifically, he picks up one of my recent posts covering cardio and whether it's worth all the hype. Since Greg was kind enough to grace us with his opinion, I figured I would do the same. So sit back, relax, and welcome to my rebuttal. Walking is cardio. So she's saying rather than focus on cardio activities like walking, do more non-cardio activities like walking. Don't do more cardio, do more cardio. Focus on cardio, don't focus on cardio, do more cardio. Let me clarify what I meant here. The average person who is just starting their fitness journey, the ones who make up a good portion of my audience, don't think of taking their dog for a walk as a meaningful source of cardio for the purposes of getting a leaner. I have to meet my audience at their level of understanding and not overwhelm them with unnecessary distinctions when what they're really looking for is for a few practical tips that they can apply to improve their lifestyle habits. Many people think that cardio is exclusively very long duration exercise at an uncomfortable intensity. And I get that this can be confusing for a bodybuilder, given that so many of them spend hours walking on a treadmill at 3.5 miles per hour and 100% inclined, but this is not common thought. Oh, I think most people know that you can lose weight a variety of ways. If this was true, I literally wouldn't have a job. Anyone who works with real human clients knows that the majority of people hold countless misconceptions about the right way you lose weight. Many of them are completely clueless in fact. That is why detox tea and herbal life still exist. And this is why I get hundreds of questions about exactly this topic anytime I do a Q and a. Well, yeah, the more cardio you do, the more fat you are going to lose. Uh, not unless you're in a calorie deficit. This blanket statement is misleading. More cardio does not automatically equal more fat loss. I should point out that Greg goes on to support the principles of calories in calories out and compensatory mechanisms in response to exercise later on in the video negating his own statements. After Greg got done shattering my eardrums on the topic of energy systems, I found that we actually hold a lot of common ground on several points. We agree that there's no fat burning zone. My use of the term was to tell people to stop caring about it. I think that was pretty obvious. We agree that cardio machines largely overestimate calories burnt. We agree that high intensity and or long duration cardio can decrease non-exercise activity, thermogenesis and increase appetite. Although I find it funny that he believes he's immune to the body's own unconscious energy saving survival mechanisms versus when coach Greg goes to the gym and does cardio. Yes, energy can keep going all day. I can do this all day. Yeah, I know. I know. So when I do cardio, I'm actually able to continue burning throughout the day. But if you're out of shape and you go and do that one or two hours, you're done. Your calorie burning goes down. Finally, we agree that fat loss can be achieved through a balanced equation of resistance training, cardiovascular exercise and sound sustainable nutritional habits. Honestly, if it wasn't for the tone of his voice, I'd say the point of his video was to flatter me and spread my message and that we can maybe be friends one day. But dude, think about who I'm talking to in this video. I'm not you talking to 16 year old boys who want to get bigger bicep peaks or a physique competitor trying to get to 4% body fat. I'm talking to the person who spends 60 minutes on the elliptical pushing themselves in order to eat a piece of chocolate at lunch. I care about helping real people, man. At hybrid, we educate people to show them where to start on their strength journey amidst all the BS that's out there detox season all. Greg Keter's the bodybuilding community, which is often dominated by rigid rules. So speaking in extremes, works for him. I hope you guys learned something from this video. If you still have questions, please don't hesitate to reach out and find out how hybrid training and hybrid nutrition can help you out. Check us out at hybridreferencemethod.com and as always, I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye. Quick disclaimer my babies, I know that we took some shots at Greg Ducey, Ducey, Ducey. I don't know how to say your last name, sorry, apologies in advance. But it was all in good fun. There's actually no animosity between me and Greg, at least not coming from me. I can't speak for him. But everybody here at hybrid respects what you've done, Greg, and we really enjoy your videos. So keep it up.