! I actually didn't even know what we were doing. Holly just asked me if I wanted to race some cars. And here we are. Yeah, and I learned how to do it in a minute, so Ella, you know what that means. What does that mean? Ready for anything. See this? It's called intimidation. Holly Baxter thinks she's a WBFS pro. WBFS, yeah. I like that a lot. I like the costumes. Oh, it's a bit more far. I mean, I'm not as serious about it as the girls that do IPV. It's so pretentious, but this is just a bit more like, I did Sailor Moon as my costume outfit, like anime. I was a skier for many years and my last Olympics was 1972 and I took up motor racing in 1974 by mistake. It was up by having a really long career. But I really got hooked on the teaching and I've now taught for 26 years over here, third in the world in some World Cup races. And but I then took up speed skiing and I did a speed of 125 miles an hour. 200 kilometers an hour on skis. On skis. Believe me, it feels fun. Pop you a little further forward. It's my personal seat. DV seat. Oh my God. It's an honor. We need to have you close enough that you can reach the pedals. Can you reach any pedal? Yeah. If I go like this. Yeah, we need you further forward. What was that? My legs. That was the most difficult thing I've ever done. What? What the fuck? Is it better? Yeah. Play better? Yeah, perfect. If it's too stacked, you always push it up. Why can't you? Okay. Sounds like something. So I really erupt your video, but I have a very important announcement for you, given that it is holiday season and likely a lot of you guys are going to be scrambling for gifts and don't know what to get that special someone, which is why I did the homework for you and I've partnered with Harry's to show you an awesome idea for a gift that you can give. So Harry's came out with this amazing shaving kit that includes an engravable razor, a shaving cream, three extra blades and a blade protector. And for only $2, you can continue buying replacements for those blades. What I love about Harry's is that they're super high quality. Their razors are made in Germany. They're extremely affordable. I love that they just came up with this gift set that is ready to give and I like what they stand for. So Harry's gives back 1% of every sale to organizations that support mental health for men and for veterans. So get yours now. Use Steffi for $5 off on their $20 gift set. Can you help me out of all of them? Awesome. I got it. Give us fun. Just getting used to the trap, you know. But it has like pretty good grip and control over all the car. And the grip is getting better. As you see the asphalt lighten up and get grey, there's reasonable grip there. It's not optimum grip yet, but if you see your tires are shiny, you won't have grip until that dries off. How fast did you get? Did you look at your opium to dim up at any point? I was only going fast on like this right away. You? I think I got up to 5.5 pounds and I'm like 2 of the laps in the back, like in the 50th year. Oh my god. I think I actually got a slight down. I feel pathetic right now in here. Why? I just have such a hard time getting in and out. I feel like I'm 70... No, she said 75 and looks better than me getting in and out. I feel 103. You look like when a kid is getting strapped into the car by their parents. You look like you're getting out. You look like you're getting out. You look like you're getting out. That guy is not cool. That's why he's getting out. Wow. You look like you're getting out. Yeah! Yeah! Two hours later. I can see myself doing this. Yeah. Well, no, actually, no, you know why? Because it's just similar to weightlifting in that it's a game of milliseconds, you know? And it's monotonous. I've already played games that are a game of milliseconds or a milli... grams. Grams? Yeah, weightlifting. It's like you have to wait so long to have to make any sort of significant improvements. So it's like imagine how many times would I have to do this course to like chip half a second on my time, you know? At a certain point, yeah. At a certain point. Because now you could probably take 30 seconds off your time just by keeping on your feet things. Yeah, right. No, but it's pretty fun. And honestly, like, I thought these things were more dangerous, but I feel like they're relatively safe. You saw a pretty like wide face. Pretty. They're not gonna flip on you, aren't they? Yeah, I think the most dangerous part about racing is if you collide against... Yeah, I'm tired of the tire, except you're flying in the air. We'll do Elbas. Congratulations. There's your diploma. You did a fantastic job. Thank you, sir. Awesome. And you got that pass. Well done. Yeah, she overtook me. Yeah. Well done. You overtook you. Yeah, she passed Holly. I did Elbas very good. Very good indeed. Thank you.