 Hello, my name is Steffi Cohen, and I am a shoe addict. What's up? So, a common question that we see all the time in Steffi's Instagram, YouTube, all that stuff, is, I guess it's not a question, it's a request. People want to see her closet, her shoe collection. If you've been following her on anything, you see that she's pretty much got a different pair of shoes on every day, might have a bit of a problem with that. She's never going to show you guys on her own, so I'm going to hijack your channel today, capture doing whatever she's doing up there, and force her to show you guys her collection. So, follow me. What? Well, I got these out here. I thought maybe, since you're never going to do it yourself, we could do a closet tour for... Oh my god, she's crazy! For your fans! I already prepped this with you might have a little bit of a problem with shoes. Honestly, shoes are the least of her problems. You get like 27 Amazon packages a day. Yeah, but I feel like the death doesn't count, you know what I mean? Because why do you order for bottles? I don't know, like a pair of socks, you know? New toothbrush. Five bucks in the socks a day? Water bottles! Oh, you see a big water bottle gal for some reason. All right, Matt, boring. Let's go. No, seriously. No, look, here's the thing. Here's the thing, right? I wear gym clothes would say 90% of the time. Maybe more. Maybe more. Okay. Maybe more. So, what are gym clothes composed of? Tights or joggers or shorts and then like a graphic tee or just like a plain tee and then maybe like I like layering, so probably I'll wear like something like this on top and then what I mean in my opinion, that's way too plain and I'm not a vanilla girl. I'm vanilla and not vanilla girl. Gotta spice it up, boy. Gotta spice it up. At least we're gonna spice it up with some dope souls. At first glance, it looks a little chaotic over there because I mean I know we've switched roles and now I'm the person who likes order. So if you look at my side, it's very well laid out. You got dunks, Louis Vuitton, Air Max 90s, Jordans, Gucci, these are miscellaneous Nikes, slip-ons, Yeezys. Question. Hold on. Air forces. This is not your video. Yeah, well, you know what? But I'm just giving contrast. So now you've seen my side all very neatly put together dress shoes down there. You know slides over here. All right. Now let's go to room number one of when you're trying to, if you're an aspiring shoe collector such as I might ask myself, you gotta know one rule and this is the rule of the white converse, which is the rule I came up with. The rule of the white converse, T.M. You need one pair of shoes, right? What color you're gonna get first? You don't start with orange because I'm glad that's crazy. That's crazy, dude. If you don't have any shoes and you're buying orange pair of shoes, what are you doing? You have problems. Okay, what are you gonna wear that with? That's really difficult too. Yeah, prison jumpsuit. Pretty much. Yeah, probably what they were wearing. Okay. You're not gonna start there. You're gonna start with either black or white. Clear. Okay. Now you have your black and white or white shoe. Then what's the next step? After black or white? Yeah. Beige. Neutral. Then what comes after beige? Red, obviously. Because red is also a color that goes with pretty much everything. That's the that's the bread and butter. That's the rice and beans of a building a collection of any kind. You can apply that to anything. Purse says you can apply that to belts. You can apply that to That's it. So yeah, okay. So we've we've gone. Oh my god. Look how perfect this is. White beige black red. Didn't even plan that. Didn't even plan that. But dude question who can walk on these? This is a weapon of mass destruction. So on the top we have the Valentinas. Look ladies, this is an investment. Think about it this way. These these these studs In this type of shoe will never go out of style. Will never go out of style. Like you can this is Valentino has been making this shoe for who knows 50 years and it's the same. They never change anything. It's a classic shoe made of leather that you can if you especially if you wear if you grab a beige one you can wear for your entire life. So anyway, so let's say you don't want to wear heels. You're not a heel person. Let's move on to the next category, which are the more the shoes that are on the dress yourself. If you don't have a pair of alexander McQueen's what are you doing? This shoe, honestly, this is the shoe I wore for a wedding. One of the times I wore this with a with a long dress and it looks super cool. And it looks super cool. Yeah, it looks amazing. And again these shoes like they haven't changed the style of this shoe and who knows how long. So these are another kind of like forever shoe. I would start with the one that comes with black, but you can find them in whichever pattern and I love them. Hype brands in the designer uh industry. Like what are the brands that are like doing cool stuff that you can wear and not look like you're trying too hard. So you've got Gucci, you've got your McQueen's then Dior is making some really cool stuff. And these are like Indiana Jones style shoes. Like I feel like I could go hiking with these, but also go to brunch. Now let's move into my favorite area of the closet, which is the hype sneakers. Super clean. Let's start with the Yeezys, okay? Because I feel like we need to clarify some things about Yeezys. The first thing to clarify, I think most people don't even realize that the Yeezys a collaboration shoe. Like the entire line of Yeezys is Adidas and Kanye West. But when you think Yeezy, you just you literally just think about it being like Kanye's brand. Look, I'll tell you what, these are the Yeezys are by far the most comfortable shoe that I have. Agreed. Like by far. It's like because they are actually the stretchy material that's kind of like a sock. Yeah, they're just cloth and foam. Yeah, you just put your foot in and out. Also if you have Yeezys, this is how you wear the the laces, right? You don't tie it like a dork. Okay, you'll leave them out like that. That this is how they're supposed to be worn. And in fact, there's like other super cool ways to wear them if you just look up like ways to wear them. But none of them are tied up like a door. Yeah, no, you don't tie your Yeezys up. So in terms of like colorways, we got clay, which not yeah, clay, zebra, Phantom, don't remember the name for that one. Gray, and desert. Oh, and then also you have the Yeezys 700s. Yeah, so okay, these are tough for me to wear. These are tough for me to wear. The first time I saw someone pulling them pulling them off really well was Chris Ilya, R.I.P. And um, he was wearing it at one of his shows and I was like, damn, that looks sick on him. But also it might be because he's like seven feet tall. Leave it down below. Tell me of the Yeezys. Which one would you wear? Okay, moving on. So annoying. That's what you do every time. You hate it? Yeah, you know what I hate? How hard you sneeze and I've been having to deal with that. I can't help that. That's just me sneezing. No, you can trust me. I can either sneeze like this Or I can sneeze like this Or I'm not trying to explode my lungs or I can see like Like you Next category we're gonna go into um, let's do off-white clubs. So we go a few dunks that are off-white clubs. Yeah, well, yeah, I was gonna count those too. All right, where do I start? I love these so much. I'm gonna start from like oldest to youngest to newest So dunks, damn, I love these so much that I had to get them in two colors. And you know what? I think I paid. I love those too. I have the same. I didn't ask you in the university. Actually, I'll bring it because these are actually the three colors that they're offered in so I think we paid for each at that time. It was like 300 bucks And now they're like over a thousand some of these colors Really? And I got these two and you got these at the same time. I actually got them first and she told me that she hated them She thought they looked terrible and then I was wearing them and she got jealous and Decided that she actually liked them and then bought herself two pairs. Yeah, there's a few shoes. You've done that with you did that with my New york city of athletes shoes too, which are actually my favorite. Yeah, I'm hijacking your video She was like I ordered them and I showed her she's like I hate those I know look at that the hybrid laces too She's very nice. Yeah, and she's like I I hate those and then she came or they came It's my video. Okay, just get in go ahead and then they came and she said Oh, I wish I got them for myself and then you could never find them again That's true. That did happen um, I'll fight collaboration so These are probably the the ones that I wear the most these two Air forces. Yeah the Air Force and these are off-white. Yeah off-white collab I love them they're super comfortable and they go with literally everything Especially these neon ones and they pop which is super cool, but you do have to put the Spray protector so they don't get stained. I think it's been working for me. Honestly, they look pretty well kept These are sick Right and I'm having a hard time wearing them because I feel like my shoot my foot looks like a clown shoot It actually looks pretty cool with the black sole and the black sock What do you think hidden you keep the tag or you take the tag off? I think it takes cajones to rock the tag. I don't quite have it, but I think for you like you're so uh Extra with your style in general that Yeah, it's it's a power move to keep the tag on I think yeah, okay, you move on These are some of my favorite ones too. Look how crazy these are you can actually detach this from the laces And then just like wear it without or that's the Travis Scott. These are yeah, these are Travis Scott like, oh cool I think they're really nice These are by far my favorite pair and a shoe period Yes, like if I had to get rid of all of these shoes and just keep one I would keep these I think that's a good call to do this Yeah, I love these so much and uh I think They are the hippiest shoe of 2020 the vaults are pretty close. No, no not even like not even slightly close I would say between it's between I would say it's between these and the Travis Scott. Yeah, what is the hippiest shoe of 2020? And the only people qualified to answer this question are sneaker heads so please at least own one pair of off-white stands That's the qualifying criteria to be able to answer this question. Next. This is a really interesting subculture which is customized Shoes in general. So it's like these really dope artists who grab it's for the most part They grab like the most plain like Air Force ones and then they turn it into something crazy There's some people that paint on them like this or some people that use like Gold patterns from say like Louis bags or Dior bags and then like they make they Sew it into the shoe. It could be like in here and here. I was actually looking at a pair that were super cool like black With black Louis stuff in there on there um these are by Donnie Donnie the Donnie the diebug and Hayden you were like looking for these forever. Yeah, he only makes a certain number of pairs it's really limited every time he releases them and I never had post notifications turned on because I don't have that turned on for anybody and every time I would Soon as I would notice I would like that he released a new Like run of them. I'd go to the website always sold out. So finally I turned post notifications on and I snagged Myself a pair and stuffy. I got those black ones over there Off-white collabs Don't crease the shoes that's what people are gonna say like that like that Then I got a funny story about these So these are off-white prestos when I first got them They weren't even half of what they were worth today and I got them in black and in white for probably less Less than one of them is cost right now But anyway, so it was a what sure it looks like thousands now Yeah, uh, so I got them in white too and I was like they're getting pretty dirty because at that point I was still not I still didn't know exactly like how to care for them And I gave them to an to a local artist and I was like hey man Can you make these like some cool color maybe like blue or something like that? And he's like, yeah sure I got you and when he gave him back to me it legit just looked like The shoe completely run it looked like as if he just went Here you go Yeah, I know it's that and the white like sole on the shoe was all kind of like wrecked from the whatever he dipped it in Yeah, it was not good. Yeah, so I'm sad about that. I still I still every once in a while, but put the white ones in my cart and then I'm like Really don't have an impressive Jordan collab or a collection You know, I think these are slightly high-pitched because of the fur Because they're furry But I'll tell you that I don't know I haven't really I haven't really Found a pair of Jordans that I can that I can justify spending more money on So funny story again Went over to goat. Thank you for nothing But a pair of look after several months of putting this shoe in my cart and taking it out and putting it in Taking it out and putting it in I was like, you know what? Fuck it. I'm gonna do it. It was out of the trial scots Jordan's the ones with the inverted Nike sign through the fucking that's how much it hurt buying those shoes Okay, waited one week two weeks three weeks four weeks five weeks Six weeks at that point. I'm desperate. I've sent at least 17 emails and then they get here Get the box out of the blue and I'm so Opening it as fast as I can was like my nails with my teeth Open it up and I see it was from goat and I see a champion shoe What's this and I go on my email and said delivered and I'm like so what happened here is Pretty much at the uh distribution center. They swapped that box with my Travis Scott's And some goat employee went home with the $2,000 pair of shoes And then goat was like, sorry There's nothing I can do about that because you don't have the serial number and I'm like, leave this the serial number Wasn't attached to my box on purpose like when I had to Put a what do you call that on the credit card? Just mark it as fraud. Mark it as fraud and then they come to my go to account So screw go Guys, thank you. Honestly, this was this was very helpful I feel I feel better after getting you know after after making my addiction getting it out of my chest People have really wanted to see that for a long time. So I figured it was it was time and we had Caesar here. So Why not force you to To do it Okay, well, thank you guys for watching. I appreciate this support. I um I hope you guys are not judging me that much from afar. I hope you like my collection um Yeah, if there's any shoe that I need to get if there's any That that I missed you send it to me. I'm gonna I'll look at it Like send me the link or actually send me a shoe. I'm a size six woman's It's a four and a half men Four and a half men or four What a four and a half four and a half men I like pretty much anything and everything the crazier the better for your shoe designer or if you Want to buy me something send it to the gym. I'll Give you a shout out in the next video No, but thank you so much appreciate you guys and I'll see you guys next time as always. Bye