 let's be real, everybody wants bigger arms, so listen up. Whether you want to have a stronger bench press or you simply want to own a pair of horseshoes that would make sea biscuit jealous, this video is for you. So here are my top three exercises to build massive triceps. Number one, skull crusher. By getting the shoulder into a more flexed position, we will be working the tricep group in their most lengthened position. This allows us to impart more mechanical tension specifically through the long head of the triceps, which is the only tricep head that crosses the shoulder joint as well as the elbow joint. You want to make sure that you're moving with control and intent as you allow the weight to stretch your shoulder into a slightly more flexion at the bottom of the movement. So try this movement with an easy bar, but do yourself a favor and don't actually crush your skull. Get it? Number two, we have the cable pushdown. This is a classic movement and is a staple in tricep training and for good reason. While the skull crusher works the tricep group in a more lengthened range, the cable pushdown focuses on the muscle contraction through mid-range. The key here is slightly hinging at the hips so that the rope or straight bar is slightly in front of you. If you're using a rope, you can even get a little bit of abduction into that final squeeze. Finally, we have the cable tricep kickback. The kickback is no longer just for step aerobics. By putting the shoulder in a hyper-extended position, we put the tricep group in a shortened position and can generate a pretty intense contraction at their end range. I absolutely love doing these on one arm at a time to really focus on that lockout. As with many other isolation exercises, cables are often superior to dumbbells to maintain constant tension on the muscle you're trying to train. So there you have it, the ingredients for the best tricep pump that you will ever have. As always, thank you guys for watching. Thanks for your support. Make sure you tag and share this video as many times as you can. And as always, I'll catch you guys on the next video. Peace. You're like, I'm in vain. Stephanie going here. Welcome back. Today, I'm going to be taking you through my workout and I want to show you a little bit about what I've been up to and the type of training that I'm doing out of now.