 I can do this with my eyes closed... I can do this with my eyes closed... I've been in a dunnett, I've seen it... What's going on my babies? Welcome to another YouTube video. Today I'm gonna be taking you guys through our strength and conditioning sessions... These are workouts adapted from our hybrid athlete program that's coming out pretty soon. Hopefully sooner than I expect. So we have a cool little group of four incredible athletes here doing the workout today. We have Hogan Gracie, we have Randy Costa, we have Ivan Baranchik, and we have Charlie... I forgot his last name. And Charlie Dixon. All coming from different sports backgrounds. Hogan coming from mixed martial arts background, specifically Jiu Jitsu, Randy mixed martial arts. I actually don't know what his combat sport background is. I think wrestling. I'm gonna ask him. I think wrestling. Obviously Charlie's a part of it. And Ivan is a straight up boxer, one of the best in the world. So really interesting mix of people. But you know, I always say that the principles are many, the methods... The principles are few, the methods are many. So we are sticking to the standard, the basics of strength and conditioning. We're trying to give these athletes a broad strength base and get their conditioning. Get their conditioning up in their offseason. Obviously the goal here is not to train super specific to their sport, but to give them enough conditioning. And like I said, a broad strength base from which they can then work from when the season begins. So we're breaking down their training into three sessions a week. We have a lower body session just today, an upper body session, and then we have a speed session. Slash full body. So today we're focusing on squats. Today we're doing safety bar above squats to challenging triple. This is I think the second time that they're squatting with me. And they have a lot of work to do. I mean, I'm not surprised. Most combat sports programs... EYE! Most strengthening and conditioning programs out there for combat athletes don't really prioritize strength. There's big misconceptions out there about the role that strength plays in combat sports or in any sport really. And it just comes from people being uneducated and not staying up to date with current best practices. So every single athlete in the world, every single traditional athlete in the world does strength training to a pretty high level. Like trying to push their strengths to a high level. So obviously those same principles should apply to combat sports athletes. That's what we're trying to do here. So excited to be a part of their journey as a coach. Something that I've always wanted to do. I'm really enjoying the interaction between us and Simon and I who are coaching the class and the athletes. And just kind of trying to problem solve and make them try to minimize the weaknesses and the holes that they have in their training currently. This conditioning piece is going to be 20 minutes long. We're going to go every minute on the minute. That means that every minute you have 60 seconds to complete the amount of reps that we have. We have 60 seconds to complete 10 to 11 calories on the assault bike. 60 seconds to complete 6 reps of the sandbag clean. Pretty heavy weight. 50 double unders and 15 kettlebell swings all the way up. Ideally you want to get this in about 40 seconds. So pace it too. Don't go all out and get this in 10 seconds and then you're just gas for the next round. Ideally you're trying to get 40 seconds of the sandbag clean. For this one, probably 30 seconds. You don't want to be taking the whole minute to get 6 reps. 50 double unders. You guys all know how to do double unders. Double unders. Double unders. Probably about 30 seconds should take you. We'll do rowing. Probably about 12-13 calories. Same thing about 40 seconds of work. Less than 40 seconds. And then 15 kettlebell swings. So these will be about 30 seconds. So these are about 30-ish 40 seconds. These are 40-45. And we're going to do 5 rounds. Treat every round like it's a round in the fight. That's what it's going to be like. It'S4 minutes of getting tired as fuck in the clinch or wrestling on the ground grappling or throwing guy. This is going to be heavy. Then again tired. And then something heavier or more explosive. So every round is like a round in the fight. That's what we're going to treat that way. Any questions? Let's go. Let's go. Okay. That could be good. That's it? I said they're pretty good. But it's not for time. And... You got one more minute like that then I'll take the plate off and you do your cut out. Finishing out with a core portion. Nothing too crazy. I wanted to do something with them that targets both their hips and their core. So we're doing marches with a sandbag carry. And then we're doing side to side med ball tosses. Reactive. That's it. 4 minutes here. 3 minutes there. And then a quick jog around the block. And that's it. Training is done. That's all for today. Pretty complete training session. Really happy with how the boys performed today. And stoked to continue seeing how they progress and sharing their journey and our journey as coaches. So thank you guys for watching. If you guys liked this video make sure to click the like button. If you really really really like it, subscribe to the channel. And as always I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye. Fuck I look like stressin' I be finessin' Don't know when my sex is Build like a blessing Fuck I look like stressin' I be finessin' Got my muscle flexin' My money stretchin' Yeah, ain't shit sweet Ain't shit funny Yeah, it's blue kiss on my hunnid-