 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n I will come up to this sweet sweet song of row row row your phone Put some sunscreen on will you 5 59 and we're obviously running late thanks to Hayden the pooping queen Hayden I didn't do my hair this morning I set my pace to match whatever you do oh yeah I could have gone up and out the door in two minutes nice patch thank you is it on red yeah essential is there with the sickness medication and the rich cracker just in case you know perfect yeah yeah so last year we did strongest men versus strongest fish this year strongest women versus strongest fish we got Steffi Cohen strongest woman on the planet pound for pound eight-time world champion arm wrestler Sarah backman and Kristen then she's got these yeah there you go yeah let's go all right guys so my name is Josh I'm black to beige and I catch big fish most famous fishermen I would say so sometimes I would say so sometimes but uh here's the reality guys we're going to put these girls up against the monster fish I mean they're going to be catching fish up with this way if it's under 300 pounds you can sit at small they're going to catch fish bigger than the what do you think you are we equipped to deal with that kind of I haven't seen you in action I've only seen but you've seen these but you've seen that's impressive I feel like that's all the proof that you need to know that I'm ready for it I mean last year we hit the men come out and they struggle so if you guys do it you're better than the men so the technique is to use your legs more right than your legs you want to use your your entire body yeah but show me the position you know what let's uh let's do a little let's do a little practice okay okay so I want to start you guys out the same way the guys did it last time now I have another one where it's a lot easier but we're gonna see you can do it now let's see here hold on that's gotta come up a little bit hold on predictions okay so this now listen listen see this rod I see this these cuts in them okay yes this plate has these pins yes so you want to make sure this rods pin okay this rod is out of the pin it gets very dangerous okay you're gonna want to back up a little bit back up you need to back up here hold on I need you to have enough room you can come up here a little more hold on I need you to have enough room you can squat you don't squat right now I can't squat well no you need you need to lean back too okay okay ready now okay you want you're going to put two hands where where did I put my hand two hands up here two hands yeah I think I think we got yeah you're doing great I'm not natural baby ready hold on hold on I'm already I'm not ready what do you say do I look like I've been doing this my whole life check out this form check out this form hey I mean I think you're gonna be pretty well set on me because how strong your legs are I should have brought my lifting belt hold on hold on Josh you gotta let me get in position okay that's impressive yeah because you want to try I'll give it a shot here we go okay dude yeah pretty good okay that's pretty good well yeah yeah at least you get to be right yeah yeah Sarah how did it feel for you I mean I did way worse oh fucking easy you're kidding me so easy how do you can you teach us how to spot each other as that fish goes straight down your shoulders are gonna want to go forward so all you gotta do is pull your back oh we're gonna jump in the water yeah that's insane so you think I see how the water visibility is good water visibility look at this thing JR come here you want to jump in the water yeah Dresson how are you feeling what do what do you think what do you think you got what it takes let's see your hip thrust let me see your hip thrust yeah nice I've been doing my hip thrust my squats all sorts of things and guess what now I guess I'm gonna go in real life you're definitely real in life you got it come on stepy oh oh like you've been doing it for years nice nice oh there's a bunch of them no mad he is no he is no he is no he is no he wants to jump in all right guys so so we're gonna do the same so we're gonna do the same rules that we did with the strong spin rod touches the gun so the gun over here side jump strike one three strikes really sound simple we'll cross that row and it reaches there you know your job is to use your strength and try to keep it off the bottom here hold the arm as you can if you touch the gun it'll strike one make sense make sense Kristen you're going first you ready I'm ready let's go so it's either goliaths or sharps but most likely the way they're hanging it's goliaths a little boogie right here got you got me we'll put it in that corner over there and I'll know what do you think big and catch one I think you all three of you as a team have a pretty good shot at it I think so I feel pretty I feel pretty yeah yeah I felt secure you're making good yeah yeah yeah I didn't feel like I was gonna get ripped into the water I was getting real up in there you know okay you gotta do what you gotta do now pull back just do it down yeah pull back yeah We're camping up there. We're camping up there. Oh there is a bear. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Come on! Come on! Come on! Ah! Ah! Come on, guys. Come on. Come on. You got this. You got this. Keep it up. Good job. Come on. You got it. You got this. Oh my God. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Yeah, keep it going. There it is. Oh my God. Woohoo! Woohoo! That's a big one. Huh? Okay. Whatever. Have a good one, man. Okay. Got it. Woohoo! Keep going. You got it. Come on. Come on. You got it. Fight him. Fight him. Fight him. Fight him. Come on. Come on. We got it. You got to stand up. You got to stand up or you have no leverage. Okay. Use your body weight. Get up. Ah! You got it. What? You're going to have to stand up. Oh! What is that? Oh, shit. Come on. Come on. Come on. Real. Real. You got to go. Go, go, go. Get up. Get up. Get up. Real. Real. Real. There he is. There. You got to go. Not back up here arm wrestling. No. No. Oh my god. No. This is the worst. No. This is what I did in the last one. What did you do? It was falling down. There you are. Oh, yeah. I saw that. Yeah. You kind of went to yourself under so the rod couldn't go down. Yeah. That was sick. What's up? Real. Real, buddy. Woo! What you got? Come on. Come on. What you got? Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. It's trying. Come on, Seppy. Hold that guy. Woo! Come on. He's almost there. I see him. Come on. I see him. Come on. He's almost sent you away. Go. Go. You got that one up quick. Look at him fast. You got to jump through. Whoa! I got a lot of water. There you go. Stop. There we go. Step in the... That's a nice slide. You can do it. Really? I'm going to scale up here and it's dead. This is the world's best. You're really good. You're really good. He's there and he's finished. Look. Look. Look.