 what's up, my babies? Welcome back to another YouTube video. Today we're here at Hybrid Performance Method, and again, I'm gonna take you guys through a lower body workout today. The focus of this workout is gonna be speed and power, focusing on the hinge. So the main movement today that we're gonna be doing is a trap bar deadlift, and then we're gonna accessorize it with several four or five exercises for your hips, so meaning your glutes, your hamstrings, and your back. So let's get to it. So personally, I like using a trap bar deadlift that has high handles, because it allows me to be in a better position, especially if I'm working on speed and power, which is gonna be the focus of this session. So ultimately, you wanna pick a weight around 60 to 70% of your max that you can move fluently for the amount of reps that are gonna be prescribed. In this case, we're gonna be doing sets of five repetitions, so something that is challenging, but at the same time that you can move with a lot of speed, because that's what we're gonna be focusing on. So again, first movement is just gonna be a trap bar deadlift. Should probably put weights on it. So before we jump into the superset, which is gonna be trap bar deadlift superset with broad jumps, we're just gonna warm up the trap bar deadlift to the amount of weight that we wanna do for the session. So like I said, 60, 70%, or if you don't know what your one-remax trap bar deadlift is, which I don't either, just go by feel, something that you can move for those five reps with appropriate speed. As far as resting between sets goes, you wanna make sure that you're fully recovered in between sets so that you could actually tap in to the energy system that is required for you to exert the most amount of power and speed that you possible again. So this is gonna be in the range of two, anywhere from two to three minutes of rest to make sure that you're ready to go for the next set. So don't rush this workout, especially this first part with a compound movement. You wanna make sure that the exercise that you're doing is actually doing what it's supposed to. Okay, so this is likely gonna be my top set of five on the trap bar deadlift. So what we're gonna do is as soon as we're done doing our last rep off trap bar deadlift, we're gonna go into our broad jumps. So the goal with the broad jumps is obviously to jump as far as you can. But the main thing to take into consideration is that explosive hip portion. So a lot of people, when they do broad jumps, they actually stay in a flexed hip position, and that's not what we want. So they jump like this. What you really wanna do is reach full extension of the hips so that we can actually put into function the strength that we were working on in the trap bar deadlift, which was hip extension. We were working on our glutes and our hamstrings to extend our hips with power and strength. Now we're actually applying it to what those muscles are actually intended to do in function. So when you do the broad jump, think about it fully extending your hips at the top to get as much length as possible. You're gonna glide. And for this, we're gonna do bounding broad jumps. So working on our reactive speed. Okay. Spicy. If you don't have a lot of space in your gym to do the broad jump, what you can do is in place vertical jumps or high jumps. The same thing, trying to jump as high as you can in one spot. One, two, three, four. First exercise that we're gonna do is gonna be a dumbbell, toes elevated, RDL. We're actually gonna put something in between our legs so we can emphasize engaging our adductors in the movement. The adductors, a muscle group that tends to be neglected during leg day, but it's a muscle that actually contributes to performance significantly. The adductor, Magnus, is the muscle group that is the most active at the very bottom of a squad because it's one of the prime hip extensors. So it's a muscle like any other that needs to be trained, not only for the purpose of performance, but also for the purpose of overall health and longevity. So anything that you have that you can put in between your legs is just to serve as a tactile cue for when you're doing a movement as a reminder to squeeze your thighs together. So when we do the dumbbell RDL, as opposed to a regular barbell RDL in which we're essentially trying to make the lift as efficient as possible by keeping that barbell as close to our center of mass as we possibly can. In the dumbbell RDL, we're gonna take a slightly different approach where we're gonna keep the load or the weight is gonna be the dumbbells. You wanna have that further away from your center of mass which is gonna be centered around the fulcrum on your sacrum. You wanna choose a plate or any sort of surface that allows you to elevate your toes about two inches. I find that this allows me to get a deeper stretch on the hamstrings and moreover target them more efficiently. As far as the amount of weight that you're lifting, just pick something that you can do for eight repetitions, fairly comfortably. For this, two exercises that we're gonna be doing, we're gonna do four rounds. So it's gonna be four rounds of eight dumbbell toes elevated RDLs and 16 med bull rotational slams. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. That is really powerful. We're going to do one more circuit and then we're going to finish up with some four strengthening drills. So the next circuit is actually going to be three different exercises. We're going to do a banded kettlebell swing, a Russian swing, so just until eye level. Again, focusing on that explosive strength coming from the hips, trying to move that kettlebell as fast as we can. Then we're going to do Nordic hamstring curls and we're going to finish with a front loaded walking lunge. So let's talk about first the execution of the exercises. For the banded kettlebell swing, you can choose a medium strength band. I chose this purple one. I don't really know exactly how many pounds of pressure it has or it provides, but what you want to do, you want to open your legs at about slightly wider than hip width apart. Step on the band really well. From here, the most important part, most common mistake I see when people do a kettlebell swing is that they squat when they're going to do the movement. You just got to remember that the kettlebell swing is a hand movement, so that means that the most motion needs to be coming from the hip. So it's more similar really to an RDL, kind of what we were doing back there than it is to a squat. So the kettlebell at all points in time should be really close to your crotch area. So yeah, you want to bend your knees a little bit and you want to lean your torso forward, but you don't want to bend your knees. So you always want to keep your knees soft, not fully extended, but also not bent. Just soft, not locked out. So from there, remember just to keep the kettlebell closer to your groin and then just focus on that explosive hip extension, really emphasizing, squeezing the glutes and extending the hips. And then the final exercise is going to be a front loaded walking lunge with posterior expansion. So you really want to hold snug onto whatever you're holding. It could be a sandbag, it could be a med ball, it could be your partner, your dog, whatever it is that you have at hand, but really make sure that you're rounding your upper back and breathing into whatever it is that you're holding to expand your rib cage and your diaphragm. So from here. Okay so for this movement we're going to do also eight reps, pointers. Just make sure that your hips are staying extended for the entire range of motion. What you don't want to do is to bend your hips like this and then bend the knees and then extend. You essentially want to think about yourself as kind of a board, a stiff board and stay in this exact same position from start to finish of the rep. So you're going to be here, go as low as you feel comfortable and back up. Because this is challenging for you, you can also grab a PVC pipe to assist you on the way back. Alright so this last super set is going to be two core exercises. The first one is going to be a staggered stance gable crunch and the second one is going to be a side plank. So we're going to hold the side plank 30 seconds on each side and we're going to do 15 reps per side of this exercise. So when I say staggered stance kneeling, gable crunch. So often times people do it like this, but if you put your knee one knee slightly in front of the other then you can bias one oblique side more than the other. So what you're going to do, you're going to bend your elbows, you're going to put your hands on your temples, stagger your knees. I like putting my toes on the ground and from there you want to keep your hips stacked on the same position. Try not to lean too much to one side and the other and from there you're going to crunch on a diagonal trying to get opposite elbow to opposite knee and halfway through. You don't have to hyperextend your back, you can keep it in a slightly bent position. And from there you're going to go here. And from there you're going to do 15 reps. All right, that was all for today guys. Hope you guys enjoyed this workout. It's a super solid one. Explosive speed, power, hypertrophy for your lower body. You're welcome. You like to learn not going to be able to walk tomorrow or the next day because likely you don't do this type of workouts, which is a good thing. Okay. If you like this type of workouts then you might be interested in knowing that we're releasing a new program called Hybrid Athlete that is basically the same exact scheme. So like all of our hybrid programs, this program is going to be centered or have a strength backbone component, really big component to it. But it's going to be catered more towards function and performance. So how do we take that strength that we've been building and that muscle hypertrophy that we've been building and turn it into something applicable to you running faster, jumping higher, punching harder, throwing faster, whatever that might be. So it's an extremely well thought of and well rounded program that will not only make you look better naked, stronger, but also make you perform better. And it's centered around the principles that I've personally been training as and especially with my boxing and the way that I've been able to maintain a muscular physique even though I'm doing a ton of cardio. Also, maintain a good level of strength. I hope you guys enjoyed. Hope you liked this video. If you did hit the like button, subscribe to the channel and as always I'll catch you guys on the next video. Bye.