 Teyza, what do you want? Uh, where are we? Context? Ah! This doesn't look much like a training camp but I'm telling you it is. We got here a few hours ago, we're just laying by the pool in this beautiful Airbnb and we're going to just train out here today actually because there's a pretty good spot there, it's shaded, it's flat and all you need really is your hands. But tomorrow the real action starts. Tomorrow we've got two sessions planned, one in the morning, one in the afternoon with coach Rubio to just see what I can learn. You know I have a pretty similar approach to what I've done in Olympic weightlifting and in powerlifting in the sense that I like learning about other people's cues and ways of coaching so I can see what I can pick up from each of them and also I want to see what they pick up from what I maybe can be doing better or improving so I'm excited for him to see my boxing and see what he thinks. Yeah, he's great. Yeah, he's just so long. He just goes like that. He just goes like this. And I'm like... He just goes like this. And I'm like... He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He died. He, uh, me and Steph just banged at like three, four rounds jump rope at last warm-up. We done some part drills. We end up doing about four-week rounds. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. He's so cute. Look at that. Look at this, you guys. I like Gary's little daughter. Say to your limit, take a picture of me. Do this, do this. I'm like, no, Gary. And then he's like... I'm gonna say to your grandma... There's a different style, different style of coaching, teaching, different style of moving, different strategies in the ring, different ways of holding pads, different intensities. So, um, yeah, I mean, I don't know. I think like there's no right or wrong. Like when you get to like the highest level of coaching, everybody is good. Just a matter of, you know, what cues, you know, resonate with you the most or what cues make sense to you the most that you feel like go with your natural style. And yeah, just like picking up tips here and there, like that's the goal of visiting different gyms. I did this for 85 years for powerlifting. We traveled all around the U.S., meeting people at different gyms, you know, observing a lot, asking a lot of questions. So this is really no different from me. I'm excited to continue visiting different gyms and meeting people all along my journey and learning as much as possible. Sick. Caesar, listen. For some reason, on these trips, I always assume the mother role. Why? I fucking hate being a mother. You're not being a mother girl. No, I'm not being a mother. Hunter? Oh. And Jay, I didn't find this a woman. You didn't find this a woman. Jay got done with this woman. It was just us guys. We'll have to be cracking all the eggs in our mouths and like fucking... Who knows what else. Hey Gordon Ramsay, watch out. I'm coming for you, man. Gordon Ramsay's specialty. The main thing is the beef Wellington. Beef Wellington has to be the ultimate indulgence. One of my all-time favourite main courses and it would definitely be on my last supper menu. My version is a lot lighter and sexier. The beef Wellington is biographed. Absolutely. Is it better than a Doner kebab? It's called a Doner kebab. Doner kebab. It keeps saying Doner kebab. Doner kebab. Caesar, set a reminder to ask subterials when Jake speaks. Jake speaks. Papa al dente. What do you want, Caesar? What are you doing? Unfortunately, voluntarily choosing to suffer. You're suffering. We're going to go to the... Bro, look how short his shorts are. Dude, are those... Those are the shortest. Careful with your scrotum. Your scrotum is straight up, about to fall under. I think it's just a bit of colour. Other than your shorts. This is like... Dude, that's... They're actually super tan. Yo! I'm hazy. Like, I'm a fruity young son. I hate that. Gordon, let's go. Stop! Stop! Open now many times. That's the workout, guys. Open now many times without stopping. What do you think? Scientific. Question mark on the without stopping. After years of hard work chasing records, you can now train like me. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son. I'm a fruity young son.