 Sựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự going live oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there's a fight top 4 last stop standing mainboard deploy cover me the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the I'm the best one Oh yeah, this is the commander who is robot-robot who can run alone Yes Roamer What is it? Roamer? Roafer? Who is that? Fortify the room. You need to keep the hostage secure Letting trauma pack you Laser line I'm Ford Shaman. Located hostage. Prepare for assault Okay, I'm gonna get it Five seconds Okay, I'm gonna get it Be advised, Op 4 has visual on the hostage Don't barricade him What are you doing? What are you doing? I'm gonna get it I'm gonna get it I'm going to light, I'm slow down I'm going to light, I'm slow down I don't know if I can do this Barricade the door oh okay oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh friendly down administering aid oh oh oh oh oh next in position Oựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Sựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự I have a left side I have a left side I have a left side The first side is left The second side is left The second side is left The green side is left This is the left side There are people Yes There are also people There's nobody There's nobody Sự S I'm gonna see this I'm gonna see this He's gonna go down He'll go to the top He's gonna go down He's not out He's back to the left 15 seconds left Yeah, I'm gonna go Time expires in 10 seconds Op 4 has the hostage One Op 4 remaining 5 seconds left He's got it, he's got it He's got it Oh, he's got it Come on Look at it He's got it Yeah, I'm gonna go down I'm gonna go down We should fail Op 4 extracts of the hostage People say they don't pay attention What? Post for Redo State I'm gonna go downựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Why is the protect is yellow? What is the friends? People like the hotel This is the most migrant Migrant The U.S. Donald Trump Why is he a flogger? Flogger Noựự Noự I think you will be able to get out of the way. 10 seconds to go. 5 seconds. The location of the boss is unknown. Operation still a go. There's no red light on the other side. Is there a garage? Noựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Hostage in sight Where? Where? The entry Dibilang careful Dibilang careful Loring new magazine Deku Deku Dekuự Noựựựự No! Wow Oh, echo echo Ah Op 4 eliminated It's too loud It's too loud It's just a laugh I don't want to play I don't want to play I don't want to play It's true Oh, it's taken by the Masulan It's taken by Masulan Masulan Oh, there's Mas Echo Masulan Mas Echo Mas Echo jadi Masulan What's that? The face is Korean It's not like Japan It's Oplus It's not like that The face is like that The Division 7 Echo Patrioựựựự you need to protect the hostage secure the room nice on it surrounded you look I can take care of them rainbows in the wall wind down 10 seconds jammer ready to 5 seconds and count the hostage was not located reimpost the wall the other one the other one the other one the other one can take care of it the other one can take care of it reloading what is that? the sound of the metal detector why do it yourself when robots do it better really? actually jammer the other one can take care of it the other one can take care of it where are we going? where are we going? this robot is really like a vacuum cleaner ok, that's ok they run from them run from sizeựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Noựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Where are you from? Sựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựựự Let's go outside, can you shoot? Get out of here! You will be detected if you remain in this area. 10 seconds left. You will be spotted. 5 seconds left. RALOF, Bibi. Time limit reached. Okay. Okay. Bibi, Abang. RALOF, Kandik. RALOF, Bibi, BUMEN TAHO. Ya, sih. Gak tau. Itu kenapa dia berduga cita gitu sih, Cieko? Pake ban putih. Asik, asik. Musimnya juga. Kayaknya masih normal. Iya, belum ada cheater. Nunggu Idor main lagi.