 beratriptine, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriat, Jieatriatriat, Jieatriatriat, Jieatriatriat, Jieatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatriatri Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm it was the first DPS phase. Oh, when DPS-nya is the first DPS phase, before you start next DPS phase, you have to be enlightened. What is it? I understand. I understand. I understand. If you start next phase, you have to start new cycle. I understand. Because the timing is so you can't go to the bottom. If you can, you can enter the wizard when the person is transferred to the fourth. Phase 2. Phase 2, you need four people to shoot wizard. One is the X-Puncher. Phase 4 is not enough to transfer the challenge. Phase 4 is not enough to turn to the first. Because the first time is too late. It's usually in phase 2, you can go to the first. You can go to the first phase. You can go to the first phase. You can go to the first phase. If you go to the first phase, you can go to the first phase. Because the timing is late. Because the timing is late. Because the buff is not enough to turn to the first. You can go to the first phase. Yes, it's not enough. So, after I meet you, I'll wait to go to the next. Oh, yeah. Or wait to go to the next. Bisa, yes. I can go to the next. So, I can go to the next. So, I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go to the next. I can go in the next. I can go in the next. I can go in the next. Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm If you had been wearing all chains all in all careers I am leaving I am leaving I am leaving all careers I am leaving all careers If you want careers in all careers in all careers in all careers If you want careers in all careers in all careers I am leaving all careers I am leaving all careers I'm gonna go to the Raskles I'm gonna go to the Raskles Raskles If you want to find whiskey, it's better to find whiskey So, he'll go to the Raskles Ambil, Ambil I'm gonna go to the Raskles I'm gonna go to the Raskles Ah, I forgot. There's a Dfinity? I forgot Do you need Dfinity or Traktor? We need Traktor We need Dfinity Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I thought I would show you all in the courts I am in all I am I am in the home If I am in the home I am I am you don't need lighten you don't need lighten you can take it we can take it you need lighten you need to preserve you need to destroy before DPS we need to rotate we need to rotate I want to rotate I want to rotate I want to rotate I want to rotate all these all these all these all these all these all these all these all these all these I don't know what to do I don't know I don't know Oh, no, because we already got the ability We already got the ability We already got the ability Oh, yeah We already got the ability We already got the ability You can do it Exotic Armor It's not necessary to open I don't know The middle of the middle of the middle The middle of the middle of the middle We just need to open it We just need to open it We just need to open it Let's go here Let's go here You already got the endlighted Why didn't you just need to open it? Can't you? You didn't open it You can see You can see You can see LB LB LB, LA, LA Kiri tengah itu Shriker Kanan Shriker Tapi ini gak bisa di Gak bisa di RA Shriker Itu keliatan abis Astaga Berarti startnya abis ngambil calis Berarti kita gak usah ngebuka tempat kristal Kan Tempat kristalnya gak kebuka-buka dari tadi Udah ditungguin Masih ada stikernya soalnya Tapi gak kebuka-buka Itu harusnya tadi udah Nightnya belum dipunuh Baru nge-spawn tadi Karena lupa kah Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I just want to attack you. If you want to attack you, you can kill me. I'll finish my attack. If I go to the next level, I'll kill you. Oh, wait. What did you do? Did you kill me? Because we have to kill you. We have to kill you. We have to kill you. We have to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to kill you. If I kill you in the middle, I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. I want to kill you in the middle. Okay? Okay, I think we can go to the other side. Let's go. We can't have a place to get up. After DPS and everything. If you want to get DPS, why don't you go to the other side? If you want to get DPS, why don't you go to the other side? We're going to get to the other side. We're going to get to the other side. Moonwalk. We're going to get to the other side. Let's go. Let's go. I'm using the other side. Special ammo. Don't forget to use the special ammo finisher. I'm using it. Oh yeah. I'm using it. I'm giving the special ammo. I need to use the Evi. I need Evi. I don't need special ammo. Can I take it? If you take it, it will start? I don't know if I can start. Maling! I don't know. Maling. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. I don't know if I can stop all the time. god I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers all three! We allosos from all these I thought I thought I thought You can see the color of the face when you see the color. Yes. We were flying at the top. That's right. That's right. That's right. Let's take a shot up your cuchy. That's right. That's right. You were looking at me. You were looking at me. That's right. Yes. This is not going to start. You're looking at me. I'm looking at the fish. This is the fish. That's the fish. What's that? What's that? This is a ninja turtle. Take it. Let's go. I'm going to the castle. Let's get it. Let's get it. Let's get it. Let's get it. Three. I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I am I thought I would try to ride in the war I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would try all the time I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop Unyielding marks, anjir namanya This means I'll take it through, then I'll take it through Yeah, I'll take it through Huh? Nama emotes Unyielding marks So, we'll start to start Why do they not? In the store, we'll start to sing So, we'll start to sing So, we'll start to sing Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I thought I was in the show because I moved on in the show I showed you all in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on in the show I moved on I moved on in the show I moved on all the show I moved on all the show I moved on all the show I moved on I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would have spawned I'm going to spawn it. He's going to double slash. What the fuck? He's going to be bugged. Slice! Slice! Slice! I think I like that. I think I have to use Whiskey, Max and Rascal. Yo. I'll kill him. He's going to kill the wizard. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I am in the middle of the tunnel in the middle of the tunnel. I am in the tunnel in the tunnel. I am in the tunnel in the tunnel. I am in the tunnel in the tunnel. I am in front of all I am I am in front of all I am in front of all I am in front of all I want to trade all of these If I want all of these, I want all of these I want all of these I want all of these I want all of these I want all of these I want all of these I want all of these well, the next one is the front yuk mac, you RB, go to the left you can't go to the right yeah, the left RB is the right right right right oh, wrong sorry right right i'm at the right okay there's a right i'm not using it i'm not using it it's the beginning 5 seconds let's go let's go let's go let's go let's go let's go oh, there's a right there's a left there's a left sorry, sorry i'm not using it no, the left is the right i'm not using it it's the right there's a left there's a left let's go let's go god god god god god god god god god god god god god Usually when I'm DPS, I just throw the deadfall so it's 30% buff so it doesn't need to be a tractor but it's still 30% buff the duration is good 1 DPS just a minute Stylist Executioner can't be able to move with Omniculus I am in the Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent Parent I think I should use the gear falcon With the void weapon Void weapon Deathfall Thyliss Suppressnate Suppressnate is the one who will be dead I will be dead I will be able to use the weapon I will use the weapon Trapper ambush At the position of the red The weapon The weapon Trapper ambush If the weapon is in the Death will be passed Then you will be finished If not If not, you will be able to use the weapon You melee Then you will finish I will use the weapon I will jump and jump Use machine Full tile I will use the gear falcon I will use the weapon The weapon It's too close The weapon The weapon is to check the right The other can see The weapon The weapon is to go far The weapon is to go far The weapon The weapon After DPS Enlightened Let's go for next I will show you I will show you I will show you I will show you I will show you I will show you I will show you I will show you I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I thought I would have Parented Parented Parented Parented Parented Parented Parented If I am in there, I will press E on the bell I will show you on the bell If I am in Parent Parent I will show you on Parent Parent Mm I will show you on Parent Parent I can show all the narrative Okay I am dealing with damage I am extremely sad Okay okay 2,5% wow I am all in I am I am I am all in process all in all in all I am all in all in all I am all in all I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I am in space I am in space I am in space I am in space I am in space If I need you, I'll show you I'll show you I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning I thought in the beginning 2 from the back what the fuck yeah, the mark is not good that's 7 why did we go to the other side? no, it's not we just came out from the front he's going to the front he's going to the middle he's going to the middle he's going to the middle wow I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of tunnel I am in the middle of tunnel I am in there I am in there I am in there I have no idea. Do you have no idea? I have no idea. Let's go. Take my own. I have no idea. If I take the power, I will take the power. If I take the power, I will take the power. I will take the power. Wait, wait. What? It's important to not challenge build. Don't do it. Are you going to take the power? If I take the power, I will take it. I will take it. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. I will take it in. Where are you? Oh, there is no one Do you have no one? There, I don't know Right, right Right, right Right Right Right Right Right Right Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I want to go on 3 yeah yeah okay, i'm going to go untung i can't see apakah ini keana sorry, i'm going to go miss i'm going to go i'm going to go i'm going to go i'm going to go i'm going to go i'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm not going to take a heavy I'm not going to take a heavy I'm not going to take a heavy Oh yeah, do What? What? The radar That's smooth What? What's the name? What's the name? The edge of the edge The edge of the radar The radar If the unit is common It's lag It's lag If the right is the right You can't go to the right If you're right, you're right It's smooth It's yellow It's yellow It's yellow If the unit is common It's yellow It's yellow It's yellow Yeah But the at the top and the bottom How do you know? I don't know It's just the additional The at the top and the bottom It's the top It's the top It's the top The top The top The top Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait Wait I thought I would use Axep wrench I thought Axep wrench is all in I thought I thought If you want to scan on all these things, I would stop all these things If I scan on all these things I would stop I would stop all these things If I scan on all these things I would stop all these things I would stop all these things I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would approve all these I thought I would take all the time I thought I would take all the time I thought I would take all the time I thought I would take all the time I thought I would show you in 3 in 4 I would show you in 3 in 4 Mm I thought I had a unlucky unlucky I thought I would take on all the unlucky Yes I thought I would stop I thought I would stop in all the unlucky If I thought I would stop in all the unlucky If I thought I would stop in all the unlucky unlucky I'm afraid I'm not going to go out I'm not going to go out I'm not going to go out I'm going to go out I'm going to go out Let's go Oh my god, let's go out Oh yeah, an Arc Loader I'm not going to go out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I'm not going out I thought I would try all in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in all careers in I thought I would have taken all of these in place I thought I would have taken all of these in place I thought I would have taken all of these in place I thought I would have taken all of these in place I thought I would have taken all of these in place I thought I would have taken all of these in place Oh my god this fucking boss, free fire I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop okay Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! I'm going to go! I'm going to go on all the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in the loot in from me take it between RA and RB uh... RIM not at the end I'm at the end I'm at the end I'm at the end we take it at the end not at the end not at the end not at the end not at the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end on the end I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I wow I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought Oh, Lim took off from Rascal after DPS Yes, it was already done If you took off DPS, can I take off DPS? Reset after DPS If you take off 2 If you take off 2, you can take off DPS If you take off DPS If you take off DPS, can I take off DPS? If you take off DPS, can I take off DPS? It's buff, it's buff. It's 40 seconds after DPS. I'm going to go to DPS. I'm going to go to DPS. I'm going to go to DPS. I'm going to go to Phoenix. I'm going to go to DPS. I'm going to go to Phoenix. I'll go to Phoenix. I'll go to Phoenix. We'll go to Phoenix. Phoenix Protocol. You can play Phoenix. Yeah, but I'm going to go to Phoenix. Yeah. I'm going to go to Tether. I'm going to go to Tether. I'm going to nolva. nolva Vortex. I don't need to go. What's that? DPS we've got to go to DPS. Okay. It's important to DPS. What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? Oh, Fy masih ada masalahnya Oh yaudah kalo gitu mah, Raskol store aja anjing Bisa ga di store aja? Jadi gimana? Pas gue ambil dari Banggen, gue langsung store Ambil dari... bukan ambil dari Banggen Oh iya, berarti gitu Pertama berarti kan Banggen dulu Banggen langsung jeter Bang Kan pertama kan gue, Whisky, Mac Terus Banggen kan, Banggen langsung store bawah Itu DPS 1 DPS 2, gue, Banggen, eh, gue, Whisky, Mac, Banggen, Enlighten Raskol ambil dari Banggen, lo store Terus, gue kayak tadi, sampe Raskol Enlighten juga, Lim store bawah Gitu aja udah, kayak biasa berarti anjing Berarti kayak yang pertama gitu kemarin gitu anjing Ya, kalo bener bisa reset gitu mah Coba dulu Ayo coba, sampai kita Ntar ya Nggak perlu di juggle-juggle anjing Udah pake strut Ya, nanti kalau gitu bisa Nah nggak Nah Nah I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop all these clowns in my home. I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I thought I would stop on all these I am sad I am sad I am sad I am sad I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in all I thought I would have been in Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Nothing better Nothing better Nothing better I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in LA I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle Where are you? Where are you? No, no, no. Let's go. Take it, take it. Wait. Where are you? You're at the bottom. At the bottom. At the bottom. Okay, at the bottom. Let's go. Okay. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. There's no. Let's go. This is the only one. This is the only one. Where are you? Oh my god, miss. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. Huh? I'm not with him I'm not with him Then the last one, we're waiting for him We're waiting for him But he's just going to store it I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him So, we're going to get him He's going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him I'm going to get him Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Come on Brady. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I should pick up. I am in the middle of the tunnel. I am in the middle of the tunnel. I am in the middle of the tunnel. I am in the middle of the tunnel. I am I can't wait. He's going to die. He's going to die. Okay. I'm going to die. Who is there? Who is there? No. No. No. No. Let's go. Let's go. What is that? There's a data. No. No. I can't stop there. I can't stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. I can stop there. Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I'm going to go to the wall. To the right. To the right. There are four, remember. Did you go to the right? To the right. Three to four. To the right. Take the right. To the right. To the right. To the right. To the right. LB. Iya. Belum. Gue kanan. Udah belum. Belum. Ntar. Udah ambil bang. Naik yuk. Rascal sama. Iya. Jangan ambil punya gue dulu ya. Biar gue penuh ya. Yuki LB. Yup. Bangin tengah ya. Gue kanan. Iya. Rascal ambil. I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I want to show you in the middle of the tunnel I I I I I I I I I I I I I am I'm gonna go back to the left Yeah, yeah Right Right You ready? You ready? You ready? 3x4 I'm going Right Right Right Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I thought I would abuse I am in LA I am in LA I am in LA I am in LA I am in LA I am tired I am tired I am tired If I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I am tired I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I I don't know who I am in before I can't So you can just push the first one Or... When... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Tremor I am in lockdown, I am in proteggers I want all these I want all these I want all these I want all these I want all these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I would kill all of these I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I I am in hell I am LB I'm going to go Right, right Let's go You're still there, Mac? I'm going to take a look Do you still have a well? If you want to go to the top No, the limb is already installed Let's take a look Let's take a look Let's take a look Let's take a look Let's take a look Where is the left? Right, right Okay, okay Rascal is taking a look Let's take a look Let's take a look I'm taking a look I'm taking a look I'm taking a look LB, I'm taking a look Ya Allah Ya Allah Ya Allah Ya Allah Ya Allah Lu barisanya yang super ga wis? Nggak, nggak, nggak Yaudah, kayaknya gua ada doang yang cukup Ya kalau ada yang jaga di belakang tuh cukup Ya kalau ada yang jaga di belakang tuh cukup Yang ini data, kita yang data Kita keter ngacir Kita keter ngacir Keter ngacir Yang lain aja B bawah B bawah Kalau untuk maaf F bottom Bawah itu ada tanahnya F bottom Bukan lompat Bukan lompat Wah itu kalau dindingnya dari tanah nggak? Eh, lantai dari tanah Nggak tahu Lu bisa ganti wis kalau mau yang lebih mana Pintunya beda wis Yang pintu atas tuh yang ada Yang lompatnya Masukannya dua Yang bawah satu Betuk Siap singa Lu kalau mau ganti DP super ganti ya wis Nggak, nggak Guna juga sih Ganti tether tiga aja lu kalau mau Kalau mau nambah DP Soalnya Kan lu perlu trusake-nya juga Iya Ngide ntar Bacok-bacok Bacok-bacok Seset Seset Seset Spectral bleed Eh, ntar tiga Empec Gak Kala aja dia bilang Kala aja Gak, kalau ngide Kalau lu kasih limp Ide nya itu pasti dia Oh yaudah Gue nggak perlu tether Gini Spectral Hehehe Spectral Ayo Ayo Ayo Ayo Udah kelar nih encounter Das Gok Gok Mantap jiwa Apa yang lu Masih building Gini Gini Gini Gak bisa Kalau lu dibacok 2 net barengan Itu pasti mati Begal champion ini Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let's go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We're going to the last encounter. I think it's pretty fast. We're going to the last encounter. We're going to try. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. I'm in the last encounter. It's not bad It's not bad It's not bad It's not bad Oh no Oh my god 5 T-T-Bit again What? It's not bad It's not bad I'll take it again Watch and learn I'll take it all I'll take it all I'll take it all I'll take it all I'll take it all I'll take it all I'll take it all I'm ready I'm ready I'm ready I'm ready I'm on the air I don't use Eon I'm on Eon I'm on the air I'm on the air It's not the air It's not the air Full Boomer I'm on the air Take it Take it Don't see I'm on the air Move Abel Boomer lagi ya Boomer lagi Awas awas Anjig Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Ambil Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska Wiska I can't buy it. How many more? 3 per 4. Hey, there's a lot of people. There's a lot of people here. There's a lot of people here. Can I get it? I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it. I can get it from... I can get it from... I can get it from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I can drain from Meg. I am in place I am in place Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I thought I would stop all these clowns Yes I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop Hahaha I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I'm leaving all the loot in the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I'm leaving all the loot I can't get it. I can't get it. I can't get it. I can't get it. Take it. Take it. Yo. Absolutely. Hey, Wizard is going to stun through. I can't get it. I can't get it. I can't get it. I can't get it. Take it. Take it. I can't get it. I agree. I just remember what the name is. It's the cartoon. Oggie and the Cock. Oggie and the Cock. Oggie and the Cock. Here, here. Here. Here. Here. Here. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am in. I am unlucky go away away i'm ready i'm ready i'm ready ready i'm ready it's okay out, out, out out, out, out out out out out out out out out out out out out out out out I'm going to go close, carry ammo, continue Wait, I'm going to take heavy I'm going to take focus I'm going to take focus I'm going to take focus I'm going to take a 4 I'm going to take a 4 How many? 3 per 4 Landing landing landing Ambil I'm going to take a 3 I'm going to take a 3 I'm going to take a 3 I'm going to take a 3 I'm going to take a 3 I'm going to take a 3 Keep yourself safe You are? Which? 3 per 4 Next, armor Which? Which? Just go on I'm going to take a 3 Just go on Just go on I'm going to take a 3 I am I'm going to go Let's go Keep yourself safe What's up, Max? No, I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go No, I'm going to go One more I'm going to go I'm going to go There's a cross-straw Thank you, WCW No, there's no place There's no place There's no place There's no place It's okay There's no place There's no place There's no place I'm going to go Take care Take care Take care I'm going to go I'm going to go I'm going to go What's that? I am in the middle I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I I am in hell what the fuck i can't get the monster focus all of you focus all of you where are you? in the outside go out go out go out go out go out go out go out clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean clean in the middle in the middle in the middle I am I am I am in the middle with all I am I am in the middle with all I am in the middle I am in the middle with all I am in the middle I am in the middle with all I am in the middle I am in the middle with all I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle I am in the middle take the whiskey one more time how many? 3.4 I can take it I can take it I can take it yes, one more time we're gonna die I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I can take it I am in the upper hand I am in the upper hand I am in the upper hand I want to go I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I thought I I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers Who can rest? I'm gonna do it for the rest I'm gonna do it Ok, ok, ok Oversold, Mac, is it? Ok, ok, ok Are you going to kill me? No, it's a little bit I'm not ready to kill me Sorry, sorry I'm not ready to kill me What's the first thing, Wodeo? I'm not ready to kill me I'm not ready to kill me No Shit, lupa lupa We're gonna kill me Unlucky, sorry for the rest I'm not ready I'm not ready We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you I'm ready I'm ready I'm ready I'm ready Are you ready? I'm ready The wind belum gerak We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you Oh, yeah We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you We're ready to kill you I can't do it I can't do it 3x4 I can't do it I'm ready I can't do it Astaga sorry I'm not going to control my hands I'm going to control my hands C'mon Link, I'll take it from you, Link 3x4 Wait, wait Take it Max, I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it I'll take it I'll take it from you Max I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you I'll take it from you We're in 3-4 We're in far away from the narrative We're in CC I am in all these I am unlucky in all these I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am leaving I am leaving Ready, ready, ready. Ready, Mac? Yo, go. Go, go. Awas, power well. Kabur, kabur, kabur. Awas, bisa masuk. Tari dulu. Mas krotanya bisa masuk. Masih, pondil. Kemarin-kemarin gak pernah masuk dia. Betul. Pas, pak. Tidak. Tidak. Anjig. Tidak. Tidak. Tidak. Tidak. Ambil. I am unlucky I am unlucky I am in the Parent Parent I am in my skin oh my god oh my god berita berita berita berita you can do it what? do you have to do it? not not I have to do it I have to do it at the top of it the next is the top 3x4 I have to do it I have to do it not take it I have to do it kill wizard I have to do it let's go let's go let's go let's go let's go go go go go go go go go go go go Well launched Oh, that's it, Max Fine Enough of the soul Cabo semua, cabo semua, cabo semua No, no, no, no, no Hmm I'm in there, I'm still I'm in there I'm taking I'm in there I'm in there How many? 3x4 I'm in there I'm in there Let's go I'm in there I'm in there I'm in there Okay, okay Okay, Chan Okay, I'm in there I got special Oh, I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out How many? I got out I got out Thank you I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I got out I am leaving I am leaving I am leaving I am leaving Come on, go out! Take it! Take it! I got it! There! There! There! There! There! There! Go blind, go blind. Thank you. Gak ada. Gak ada bearer. Thank you, Wish. Lupa tadi. Ada pingnya. Ya, ya. Pedak. Dewa lu, well lu ada gak? Gak bisa liat, loh. Gak bisa liat, loh. Harusnya ada, Cinta. Gak sampai di atas. Ternyata, ya. Mac! Mac atas, Mac atas. Jangan, guilty dulu ya. Jangan, guilty dulu ya. Biar, Mac. Biar, bang, ini. Biar, kita defek. Cepup, siap semua. Any time, any time. Ready, ready. Gak apa, gak apa. Gak apa, gak apa. Masih bisa ko itu. Oh, dikit lagi, well. Ntar, ntar kenapa super ya? Yo. Eh, onjau, onjau, onjau. Gila. Gila. Boa, mati anjig. Yung, yung, yung. Dikit lagi, dikit lagi, gue. Miss anjig. Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Mm Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh initial damage-nya nggak kena kalau api apa namanya tornadonya Tornadonya nggak kena Ayo Ayo Ayo Tinggal di perkekaya Apa sakur ya Ayo Sekarang GL chill clip jelek banget dah Gododog Nggak bisa nge-bekuin anjing GL CLIP 2 hit Harus 3 hit Sekarang 3 berokat ya wu Harus ya Yuk IG IG Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf Agaf boomer Hai naik pernah diambil banget nyandok Rota nya disitu ya pertanyaan emak Nek ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo umur ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo ayo Where? Where? It's okay, it's too late Oh, there's a left-hand There's a left-hand I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm ready Ready all Ready I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I can't even think of the counter I was very good I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I got the I got the I got the I got the I'm going to go to the middle of my head I'm just in the middle I'm going to go to the middle of my head I'm going to go to the middle of my head Okay, okay Go full, go full Wait, wait, wait Finish, finish I'm going to go from the middle of my head I'm going to go from the middle of my head I'm going to go from the middle of my head I'm going to go from the middle of my head I'm going to go from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I'm going from the middle of my head I want to show all the clowns I want to show all the clowns I want to show all the clowns I want to show all the clowns I want to show all the clowns I want to show all the clowns I am from all machines I am from all machines I am from all machines I am from all machines I am from all machines I am from all machines Just start, just go to the DPS I don't know It's in the bottom Take it from me Take it from me Why did you go down? Why did you go down? Why did you go down? Oh my god I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down I'm going to go down Mm Mm I I I Mm Mm the governor of the 2nd sorry sorry sorry it's a bad thing damn it son we're gonna kill them yeah yeah yeah we're gonna kill them we're gonna kill them we're gonna kill them heal let's go go go this this is what this okay berapa wish? 3 I want you all in all in all Oh, Srimulyani, Srimulyani I'm 3.4 Srimulyani Oh, I'm a wizard I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate If I want to get out of the ultimate If I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate I want to get out of the ultimate okay one pedang boomers ayo penuh bang penuh ayo ayo ayo bang ambil langsung ambil heeeh pinter lu deket tempat sampah i can't get hit i can't get hit i can't get hit okay berapa berapa They're already in the background I'm already out I'm already out Oh, so I can Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in I'm in If I'm in I'm in I'm in ahh I want to go in the blood I want to go in the blood I am in all I am I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you What? Oversoul-nya ga lo tembak, Mech? Udah, udah 2x Kok kalo ga ditembak harusnya wipe ga sih? Oh, gue kasih go sih Meriah, dewa hidup tuh Gue kena, gue mati sama Oversoul Gaze Cender, Cender, Cender As, as, as Cender, Cender Cender, Cender Ujian Sabar, sabar, gue ganti itu dulu Beda, itu Gue mati Kau kena pernah main wipe Bukan dibangin, kita satu nanti abis-abis Gak berempat Kita mati Yang jatah? Langsung ambil Slih mambil dari whisky Siapa yang bergema-gema sih? Tolong dong jangan bergema Tolong dong jangan bergema Loh? Ters gua dong, ambil punya siapa? Mat siapa ini? Mat siapa ini? Udah ga ada resnya kayak Klim berapa? Ok, ok, 1 1 bar Ters gua Oke, ambil Ternyata di ujung Ternyata di ujung Ternyata di ujung Ternyata di portal lepas, soalnya dia bisa ngeras gue Ternyata di portal lepas, soalnya dia bisa ngeras gue Belum, belum Belum, belum Ini masih pedang satu Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I am unlucky I know, it's more ane-one. It's more ane-one. It's more ane-one. I know. I'm not sure you're all in the room. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. What? Time over soul destroy. What? I'm not sure. It's ane-one. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Wait Embered the bomb, what a hit Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau gue My throat is f**king much Berapa? Which? 3 bar 4 Oh, di atas ya Yuk Gatau Ambil, diu Kok gue ya? Mungkin aja liat lupa gue Berapa atik? Sorry 3 2 Gatau Ayo i Kiri atas boomer Udah ya Ini tinggal di finish Pedangnya ambil, wish Ambil, kamen Berapa diu? Setengah Tempat Gue standby Belum ambil jangan dulu Ambil Belum Sorry sorry Gua kena wizard ga jadi lompat Lalu gua ilang Gimana? Tuh Gimana itu timmer? Gimana itu timmer? Gimana itu timmer? One bar Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau Gatau What's up, Mac? Oh no, he's got a gun He's got a gun No, I'm going to get a gun What's up, I'm going to get a gun What's up? Take it, take it Let's go, climb Boomer We're already in the store, take it slow, take it slow I'm going to get a gun I'm going to get a gun I'm going to get a gun I'm going to get a gun Oh, I'm going to get a gun I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to kill the wizard I'm going to take it I'm ready Ready? I'm ready Alright? Alright Let's go I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I'm in all space I am in Agurna I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel Mm Mm Mm Make yourself yourself Timer Timer Timer Ben Stunb I I am Mm Mm This is 2. Yeah. I'll be nice. Oh, I'll be nice. Mac, don't forget. I'm in the top. Oh my God. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. Okay. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. I'm in the top. okay okay oh i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I thought I would stop I am in all space I am in all space I am in all space I am in all space I am in the first I am in the first I am in the second I am in the second I am in all I am in all I'll show you all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all in all I am I am I am I am I am I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you Oh, I can kill you I'm gonna kill you Take it, take it Take it, take it There's a wizard at the top Yes Let's kill the boomer Focus, focus I'm gonna kill you Whiskey, yeah mate You wanna Whiskey? You wanna Whiskey? Take it from the place Now Do you need to take it? Take it Take it Whiskey can take it I'll kill you Make Make Make Make Make Make Make Make I'm gonna go Amil bang I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I all right we are ready oh huh yeah yeah oh my god invisible timer yeah damn it yeah oh i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i! I will take the banner. I will take the banner. Let's go. All of them are out. Let's go. Let's go. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I will take the banner on the bell. I do Ambil, saya golem Oh my god Wencing, kenapa kurutanya disini Ambil Aduh Timer Tidak, saya kembali Tidak, saya kembali Ada kerota Aman, saya kerotanya ke saya Ayo, ayo Astagfirullah Kenapa? Aku lompat kan Lagi skating Ada kerota Belok Belok sendiri Bang, bang Yes, yes, yes Tidak, saya kembali di airspace Tidak, saya kembali Zero G, anjing Tidak, kayak ada peder Tidak, saya kembali Tidak, saya kembali Nongkrong di highway Nongkrong di jalan tol Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh Jatuh I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I am in front of my roof I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you Take it Awas, OG Awas, OG I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you Sorry, sorry I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in the middle of the tunnel I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers I am in all careers Are you in store? It's alright, I'm in store I didn't tell you Oggie, Oggie Oggie? Oggie? Oggie I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in I thought I would go in Oh Oh I can't go I can't go Mac, you're dead No, no Ready Go, Mac Oh Oh Wow, can I do that? I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it No Go Lari, guys Lari Boomer, I'm going to go Oh, there's no one I can do it I can't rest I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it Do you have to rest? I can do it I can do it I can do it Let's go Eh, let's go Let's go Wait I can do it I can do it Let's go I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it I can do it