 ... ... ... ... Article 5 Article 5 Yes My first time too Please be gentle My first time I'm gonna put Bob Wire a lot Bob Wire? Bob Wire? Kresna gak pake Discord ya? Ada deh Gak ngomong Eh ya gue ganti juga Oh ada ya? Adul si gen lama Adul kobam Wah ini lu pake PC nya kobam ya? PC nya kobam gue pake kayaknya anjir Wajar lah Mert ini belum pernah goload Kenapa ini gak banyak? We need to protect the biohazard container Apwar Amwar Weee Tentai di napanya disini aja Gokongan Kita liat Kok banyak buku nih kayak di kampus Apwar loket the biohazard container Bukan Gimiu Space Space Space Space Space Space 10 seconds left Hey, armor, one more, who is? Oh, it's already done Where is the enemy? This is not the Reinforce This one Oh, I'm not the Reinforce I'm not the Reinforce I'm not the Reinforce I'm not the Reinforce I want to Reinforce He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it He'll do it I killed him, so I got him Yes, yes, yes I got him in the middle Yes, yes, yes No, no, no, no Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes Yes Yes Malaga Malaga do not do not do not Oh this one-ton walk this way ... ... ... Oh Oh camera in the the the the the the the the the the the camera I I I I I I I I I I I I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go because I'm still in the campus I'm gonna put an arrow I'm gonna change this one Well, it's a helmet I'm gonna put a helmet I'm gonna put a helmet hmm hmm locate the biohazard container okay I'm gonna take the two of the stairs eh, there's no one the biohazard container located hey, I'm going to go I'm going to go out the outside the same thing we're the same we're the same the same on the other side lower library oh, so in the south this is the northwest library then I want to go from the library the northwest library, the classroom is the south can't go but it must be on the bridge it's the reinforce the biohazard container camera camera there's a food truck coffee there's indomie charlie noodle charlie's noodle charlie's noodle okay, okay there's a food truck the window only one that's open okay, seriously do this do this do this do this do this do this do this do this do this do this do this do this oh oh oh i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i It'll do it It'll do it hmm hmm hmm um fire fire 3 hmm hmm the fire fire we need to protect the biohazard container pain pain pain There is a room in the room There is a room in the room I can see the room 5 seconds Do you want to see the room? Do you want to see the room? Do you want to see the room in all costs? do you want to see the room in all costs? It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this It'll do this I'll protect rockets from here What do I do? It's not right It's not right It's not right do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go Where is the car? The car is in the west West West Glass Oh What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? What's that? The flash is dead, I don't know who's left Who's left Ah, from the pass, I'm dead Pass, I'm dead Here, here Hold him, Aldi IQ, IQ That's the Aldi's job, so we can get to work I'm gonna go Hati-hati belakang lu, game Gue jaga sisi lainnya Dari atas ya, hati-hatilah Dari atas, satu situ Gue rasa sisi tuh Berisik lagi nih, bar player Gue, gede armor nih, bentuk Masih disitu, masih disitu Masih itu, tempat mata Tungguin apa? Gue tunggu-tunggu, jaga pintu-intu Nah Masih dalam gitu Giatin kamera aja Kameranya pasti belum mancur Oh iya Masih diarahnya C-G Tahan aja, tahan Tahan Tahan Ke arah lu, game Ke arah game Tahan Liatin si Aldi ya Eh, ini kok itu Udah di lu liat tanah di Udah masing-masing gak ke posisi masing-masing Ini ya Ini ya Ingat, Trikoil Oh si bolongan Tahan Kahan, banjir Kiri, kiri, kiri Sip Sorry, sorry, sorry Kalah, demak Malah I'm gonna go fast I'm gonna go I'm gonna go It's me baby I'm gonna go It must be a grana I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go I'm gonna go The biohazard container has been looking I I think that's what we're gonna do 10 seconds to go 5 seconds to go 5 seconds to go 5 seconds to go 5 seconds to go proceed to biohazard container location I'm sure ground, guys I'm sure ground, guys camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner I'm just looking at meat goreng we're gonna do it there, there, there go, go, go camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner I'm scared, I'm scared camera's in the corner I'm scared can I get the ball in the corner at the top camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner camera's in the corner oh yeah, I'm going to the right side I'm going to the right side what? I'm going to the right side oh, he's against me what? from the door, from the door that I'm going to the left wait, wait, wait wait, wait wait, wait, wait can I go down? what's up? here, here here, here here, here here, here you're still laughing you're still laughing I'm still laughing I'm still laughing there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 there's 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I'm gonna kill you I don't have a granite Granite, I mean? I'll kill you From there From there From behind From behind ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...! ...I'll do this ... ... I'll do 2x do 2x I'll do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x do 2x we need to protect the biohazard container I'm sorry I'm sorry oh this is the thing if you want to see the question here here what is the building? the building is the building, I don't know the building is the building, I don't know the building is the building the building is the building there'll be 2-3 2-3 2-3 10 seconds 5 seconds 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 so I'll do this so so so this is who photo? it's a park where are you? it's a park from the park from the back from the back it's a park it's a park i'm going to go i'm going to go this oh this is really i'm going to go i'm going to go i'm going to go he killed me i'm going to play i'm playing camera i didn't see the other one i'm going to go it's 100% report here op 4 is securing the container i'm going to go here here look at the park fire were eliminated i hit it i hit it i hit it i hit it i hit it i hit it i hit it i hit it you killed you got the