 Allocinoocleocle, Ziel Zieloc Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi Hadi only can kill with super from relic so you can kill damage other than relic super before we continue to do this tutorial I want to thank you for all subscribers new that joined this channel for last week so in the bottom of this list of new subscribers that joined this channel thank you for your support and if you haven't subscribed, subscribe! so you can use these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so these so you can use these so you can use these so you can use these so you can use these like that, with using orb use trick. Then, what we found is also using Titan, with using Ursa Furiosa. That's the class that will be used to many orb so that it can be used by the shield to make super. Then, trick next is the shield that will be used to wait in the portal where the shield will be released. This is so that the shield next has enough time to gather the orb while walking to the ground or to the superman while walking to the ground. Then, the team will usually be used to just 4 people. The other two people will be able to protect the plate so that the portal will always be open. The other two people will always open. After I was able to take the shield, I will stand by in front of the door to take the shield or take the shield. Then, I will take the shield to the portal where there is the main orb. The thing that must be remembered is that when you want to do super or kill the main orb with super, We will Hadi Hadi We will Hadi Because if the ground is small, there is a possibility that super will miss. So, there are several times that super will miss before. So, after we kill the monotor with super from relic, then we drop and drop it to the relic to bring out. Now, the task is to bring in orb in the zone. For the relic next to be able to get super. This is the use of super from the Tether Triathus with orb to bring in many orb. So, the relic next to be able to get more of the relic. So, you just need to get more of the orb. So, if you can get more of the drop. But if you can't die, you can't die. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So, the end of the siklus is like that. The relic next to be able to bring in the relic, then he will kill the relic. The relic next to be able to kill the relic. Then the shield will drop, then take the orex that we have in the inside, then take the outside. Then the relic next to be able to bring the relic to the next zone. Then the inside, he will have the orb to bring the relic next to the next one. That's it. Then the time to be able to take the outside. We'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you next time so you'll see you So, the ads in front of him are allowed to teach him so that there are many Orbs that he can do. Here we need help from all of his friends to achieve the Orbs in various ways with various ways. With super, with other people, and other people. So, if the weapon is not a Masterwork, don't use it here. Like anarchy, there is no catalyst, so don't use it here. This is why I don't tethered. Because I'm worried that damage from the tether will be taken to the Minotaur. So, it will fail to achieve the triumph. So, I will take care of Minotaur to not damage from the super, from the Relic. So, I'm ready to kill the Minotaur, where Minotaur is already dead. If you have 3 Minotaur, then you will take the 3 Minotaur to the Yvern. If they have already killed, we can get the egg. So, how can you do it? It's easy to do it. Thank you for watching and watching. If you like this video, you don't want to watch it. Thank you. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. We'll see you next time.