Okay. So, this is a t tutorial on um anatomical terms and it's a basic tutorial um which would should hopefully help you to understand how different terms are used in anatomy to describe the relative positions of different structures in the body. So firstly I'm going to talk about the anatomical position. This uh model here is standing in the anatomical position. So you can see he is standing facing forward with his face looking towards you. His palms are facing outwards and his forearms are supernated and his feet are facing forward like that. So this is the anatomical position. Um, and if I just zoom in a bit on his head, technically speaking, in the anatomical position, the inferior uh margin of the orbit should be level with the top of the external auditory miatus. So that's just a technical detail, but when you describe anatomical structures, you talk about them um with reference to this anatomical position. So the little finger is medial to the thumb. So you can imagine if if the even if the hands facing the other way, if a patient's lying on the bed, upside down, standing on the head, whatever, you're always talking about structures relative to the anatomical position. So firstly, I'm just going to talk a little bit about anatomical planes because people tend to talk about them. Um so there are three um major groups of planes in the human body. uh the sagittal plane, the coronal plane and the axial plane um or uh transverse plane, transverse horizontal axial are used interchangeably. So the sagittal plane is a plane that divides um the body into left and right halves um and it's run it runs straight down the middle here. Um the coronal plane is oriented vertically and divides the body into anterior and posterior halves and it runs perpendicular to the sagittal plane. So it runs down here and then the horizontal transverse axial whatever you want to call it plane um runs as you could probably guess horizontally and it divides the body into superior and inferior parts. Just going back to the sagittal plane. Um the plane that divides the body exactly equally into right and left halves is known as the medial median sagittal plane. So when you learn about anatomy or you're reading textbooks or watching these tutorials, you'll hear a lot of terms that are thrown about to help describe um the relative locations of structures within the body like anterior, posterior, superficial, deep, proximal, distal, superior, inferior, rostal, cordal, dorsal, vententral, all these kind of words. So I'll just run through um what these mean and I'll show you a few examples. So hopefully you can remember what these all mean in the future. So anterior and posterior. Anterior uh means closer to the front of the body. And all these terms are relative to anatomical position. So anterior and posterior describe structures relative to the front and the back of the body. So for example um the sternum is anterior to the heart. So, I'll just show you that. So, the sternum here, zoom in a bit, is anterior to the lungs. It's anterior to the heart, anterior to the vertebrae, or you could say the vertebrae is posterior to the sternum, whatever you whatever you like. So, anter and posterior refer to the front and the back of the body. Median and lateral means close to the so medial is close to the midline. Lateral is further away from the midline. So a medial structure is a structure that's closer to that median sagittal plane that I talked about a bit before. So for instance going back to the sternum. Don't know why I'm choosing the sternum but the sternum is median medial to the humorus. This the sternum is medial to the the rib uh the ribs. So medial and lateral just refer to either closer or further away to to the midline. And just going back to um the importance of the anatomical position, um we would say that the little finger is medial to the thumb because in the anatomical position, the little finger is close to the midline. Obviously, you can see that if if this model was uh to turn his palm so they're facing away from you, um then the thumb would be close to the midline. But we'd still say that the thumb is a lateral structure relative to the little finger because in the anatomical position, uh that's how it how it is. So I always describe things relative to the anatomical position. Superior and inferior describe things on the vertical axis. So a superior structure is one that's close to the top and an inferior structure is one that's close to the bottom. So we could say that the nose is superior to the chest. The nose is superior to the knees. The knees are superior to the feet. So that's what superior and inferior mean. Another um term that's used quite a lot is superficial and deep. Uh superficial just means closer to the surface of the body and deep means further away from the surface of the body. So if I just move I'm just going to move the slider on the left which is slight off screen at the moment and it will move gradually from superficial to deep structures. So going down to the muscle there down to the bones and then you can see the organs and removing everything going from superficial to deep then back to so where this might be a bit confusing is um if you're describing structures on the back. So the skin here is superficial but it's posterior. So a muscle of the back here if you're looking at the muscles of the back the latis latisimus dorsy is a posterior structure but it is more superficial than um these structures that lie underneath it. So the seratus posterior inferior is deep to the latisimus dorsy but it's more anterior than the latisimus dorsy because relative to the anatomical position it's closer to the front of the body. So superficial and deep are just used to describe um things that are close to the surface of the body or further away from the surface of the body. So the heart is deep to the skin. The words proximal and distal are also commonly used especially when talking about the limbs and the digestive tract or or anything uh well a lot of things really but um proximal means closer to the trunk or close to the structures origin and distal means further away from the structures origin. So if I if we're just talking about muscles for instance, um the proximal attachment of the bicep is here and the distal attachment of the bicep is here. Um the shoulder is proximal to the elbow. The the felanges are uh distal to the elbow. So proximal and distal refer to um with well they referred to a structures origin. So um if we're talking about the digestive system for instance I just get that up. So this the digestive system origin the mouth is the pro most proximal part of the digestive system and oh didn't mean to click that and the anus is the most distal part of the digestive system. So we could say that the stomach is distal to the esophagus esophagus. We could say the anus is distal to the stomach. The stomach is proximal to the anus. Okay. So with reference to muscles, you often hear the words origin and insertion. So the origin is the proximal attachment and the insertion is the distal attachment. Um the origin is attached to the unmovable bone and the insertion is attached to the movable surface of the bone. So in the example of the biceps, just look at that. that that's it. So the short head of the biceps, this is the origin. It's the proximal i.e. closer to the uh trunk. That's the proximal attachment. And the distal attachment, the distal attachment is down here. So that's the insertion and that's that's the bone. it's inserted onto the bone which is moved and this is the bone that doesn't move. So that's the origin and that's the insertion. Um and it it's used for other as well as the digestive system. It's and the and muscles it's used to describe blood vessels. So you could say so this the origin of blood vessels. So you could say the the radial artery is distal to the subclavian artery because the subclavian artery is closer to the origin. So that's proximal and distal. So we've talked about anterior, posterior, proximal, distal, medial, lateral, superior, inferior. Um there sometimes you'll hear the words dorsal, vententral, rostal and causal. Um in human anatomy this is usually restricted to use uh to being used when referring to the nervous system. Uh so in the spine um you may have dorsal roots and vententral roots. Um and here it's referring to posterior and anterior. So dorsal is poster and vententral is anterior. But in the brain these words have a slightly different and specific meaning. So if I just zoom into the brain just show you what these words mean. So in the brain you will hear the words rostal and cordal. So rostral means is anterior and cordal is posterior, dorsal is superior and vententral is inferior. And that's um primarily used in the brain in human anatomy. And then in the spinal cord, dorsal is posterior and vententral is anterior. So that's a little bit confusing, but it's useful to be aware of before you start hearing it and getting confused. So I think I've covered most of the common the planes and the uh terms to describe location. So hopefully that will be useful and you'll remember um remember what these mean when they when you hear them being used. just like