 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the anatomy of the anterior cranial fossa. So the floor of the cranial cavity is divided into anterior, middle, middle and posterior cranial fossa. These are large depressions within the internal surface of the cranial base which house different parts of the cranial base which house different parts of the body. the brain and its associated structures. The anterior cranial fascia is the shallowest and most superior cranial fascia. The anterior cranial fascia contains the anterior and inferior parts of the frontal lobes of the brain and it contains the right and left or factory pathways. So coming back to a superior view of the anterior cranial fascia, let's zoom in a bit and take a look at some of the component parts. The floor is comprised of the frontal bone anteriorly and laterally. In the midline is the ethmoid bone. And posteriorly we have the sphenoid, specifically the body of the sphenoid and the lesser wing of the sphenoid. I've just switched over now to a sagittal section to demonstrate the relationship of the anterior cranial fossa to the nasal cavity and also to the orbits. This relationship is clinically important because nasal and orbital infection can potentially spread intracranially to the brain, resulting in meningoencephalitis. Now coming back to the superior intracranial view, let's take a look at some of the key features of the anterior cranial fossa. The frontal crest is this crest of bone in the midline and provides attachment for the phalx cerebri, which is a sheet of dura mater which separates the cerebral hemispheres superiorly. Just posterior to the frontal crest at its base where it articulates with the ethmoid bone is the foramen cecum. This foramen is rarely open in adults, but when it is, it transmits emissary venous connections to the nasal cavity. Just behind the frontal crest is the crista galley. This projects superiorly from the ethmoid, which is another point of attachment for the phalx cerebri. On either side of the crista galley is the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. This contains many tiny foramen for the olfactory nerves to pass through to the olfactory bulb. On either side of the ethmoid bone, the floor of the anterior cranial fossa is made up of the orbital part of the frontal bone. This forms the roof of the orbit and supports the frontal lobes and makes up the largest part of the anterior cranial fossa. The posterior aspect of the anterior cranial fossa behind the ethmoid and frontal bones is made up of the body and lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. The lesser wings extend laterally from the body of the sphenoid. Posterior to the lesser wings is the middle cranial fossa which we'll be taking a look at in the next tutorial. Medially, the lesser wing curves posteriorly to form the anterior clinoid process, the attachment for the tentorium cerebelli. This is the part of the dura which separates the posterior cerebrum from the cerebellum. The optic canal can be seen just anterior to the anterior clinoid process as this circular opening within the lesser wing. The optic canal transmits the ophthalmic artery and the optic nerve. The optic canal is actually included within the middle cranial fossa because it lies just behind the posterior boundary of the anterior cranial fossa. This boundary is formed by the anterior edge of the chiasmatic sulcus which you can see here as the groove between the optic canals which runs across the body of the sphenoid. So that's the anatomy of the anterior cranial fossa. In the next video we'll be looking at the anatomy of the middle cranial fossa. If you have found this video helpful, give us a like, subscribe to our channel and leave us a comment below. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching.