arises from the circumlex artery in which case they're left dominant. In the case of this model, you can see both arteries um run in equal length. So this would be a case of co-ominance. So there's an equal supply from the right and the left coronary arteries to the posterior surface of the heart. So just to quickly go over those um that again, you've got two arteries which branch off from the base of the aorta arising from the aotic sinuses. So you've got the right aotic sinus giving rise to the right coronary artery and the left aotic sinus giving rise to the left coronary artery. So the right coronary artery winds round along the coronary sulcus giving off two branches. the right marginal branch and the posterior intervententricular artery which runs down the posterior interventricular sulcus. So the right coronary artery supplies the right atrium and the right ventricle um and it supplies both the sinoatrial node and the atrio ventricular node in most people but remember there is a certain degree of anatomical variation. So the left coronary artery gives off a few branches. So you've got this first branch which runs down the anterior intervententricular sulcus and is known as the anterior intervententricular artery. Also known as the um anterior descending artery, sorry, the left anterior descending And then you've got this branch, the circumflex branch, which winds around all the way to the posterior surface of the heart. And the circumflex artery gives rise to this artery, the left marginal branch, which sits on the left margin of the heart, hence the name. And in some people the circumflex artery actually gives rise to the posterior intervententricular artery in which case the person is known as left dominant. So a person's coronary artery dominance is determined by which artery supplies the posterior intervententricular artery. So if it's the left coronary artery as a branch of the circumlex, then they're left dominant. If it's the right coronary artery, then they're right dominant. So that's the arterial supply to the heart. And next I'm going to be talking about the venus drainage of the heart. Okay. So the venus drainage of the heart is by several cardiac veins which drain into the coronary sinus which lies on the posterior aspect of the heart on the inferior surface. So this diaphragmatic surface um and you've got this coronary sinus which lies between the left and the right ventric sorry the left atrium and the left ventricle. So it lies in the coronary sulcus between the left and left atrium and ventricle. And the coronary sinus drains blood back into the right side of the heart. So just like all the other deoxxygenated blood, it returns blood to the right atrium. So this this this is the coronary sinus here and it receives four um tributaries. So you've got the great cardiac vein which runs down the anterior intervententricular sulcus and drains. So it wind winds round to join the coronary sulcus at the back. So that's the great cardiac vein. So it runs down the anterior intervententricular surface, winds round and joins drains into the coronary sinus. You've got this vein which runs down the posterior interventricular sulcus and this is called the middle cardiac vein. And this drains into the coronary sinus. This one on the margin of the heart is the um posterior cardiac vein and it meets the great cardiac vein to drain into the coronary sinus. So just rotating it around you can see it lies on the left margin of the heart and it drains into the coronary sinus. So this is the posterior cardiac vein. And then on the right side of the heart, you've got the small cardiac vein. So this thin little vein here running in the coronary sulcus is called the small cardiac vein. And that runs between the right atrium and the right ventricle. And you've got this little branch which comes off the small cardiac vein. So this is the right marginal vein and this drains into the small cardiac vein which drains into the coronary sinus which drains blood into the right atrium. So you've got the coronary sinus which has four tributaries. You've got the great cardiac vein running in the anterior intervententricular sulcus. You've got the posterior cardiac vein which runs on the left margin of the heart which joins the great cardiac vein and drains into the coronary sinus. And then you've got the middle cardiac vein which runs right down the middle of the back of the heart, the diaphragmatic surface of the heart in the posterior interventricular sulcus. And you've got the small cardiac vein which drains into the coronary sinus. So four tributaries which drain into the coronary sinus. And then you've got these other two veins which you need to know. So the right marginal vein which drains into the small cardiac vein and you've got these veins here which are anterior veins and these drain the anterior portion of the right ventricle. So that's the Venus drainage of the heart.