 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the anatomy of the brachialis muscle. To support us in creating more content, please hit the like button below, subscribe to our channel for updates, and check out our Patreon page. The brachialis is a flat, fusiform muscle which lies posteriorly within the anterior compartment of the upper arm. The other muscles are the caracobrachialis and the biceps brachiae. The muscles in the anterior compartment of the upper arm are innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve and produce flexion at the elbow joint. The muscles in the anterior compartment of the upper arm are innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve and produce flexion at the elbow joint. Most people are familiar with the superficially located biceps brachiae, which has its characteristic shape and peak as seen in well-trained athletes and bodybuilders. However, the deeper brachialis muscle is the main and strongest flexor of the elbow. The brachialis muscle originates from the anterior surface of the distal humus, near to the insertion of the elbow. It inserts onto the tuberosity of the ulna, as well as the anterior inferior surface of the ulna. I've just isolated the ulna bone to demonstrate the coronoid process, which you can see is this triangular prominence projecting from the proximal anterior ulna. Some research suggests that the brachialis has two distinct heads, a larger superficial head, proximally and laterally, and a deeper smaller head located medially and distally. The superficial head is suggested to insert onto the ulna tuberosity, whereas the fibres of the deep head are suggested to insert via an aponeurosis onto the coronoid process. The brachialis is innovated by the brachialis. The brachialis is innovated by the musculocutaneous nerve, which runs along the anterior surface of the muscle between the brachialis and overlying biceps brachii. The musculocutaneous nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus and derives its nerve fibres from spinal roots C5 to C7. In many people, the muscle receives dual innervation, with lateral innervation additionally supplied via the radial nerve. The brachialis receives its arterial supply from the brachial artery and the radial recurrent artery. The radial recurrent artery arises from the radial artery immediately below the elbow, and as a so-called recurrent artery, it therefore ascends back up the arm and passes between the brachioradialis muscle and the brachialis, supplying both of them, and then anastomosis with the profunda brachii, the deep artery of the arm, which itself arises from the brachial artery. As I mentioned at the start, the brachialis muscle is the primary muscle involved in elbow flexion, and it does so in all positions and at different degrees of forearm supination and pronation. It is a pure flexor, that is, unlike the biceps brachii muscle, which crosses multiple joints and has actions at the glenohumeral, humeroalna and radioalna joints, the brachialis solely works on the humeroalna joint to produce flexion. It does not have an attachment to the radius and is therefore not involved in pronation and supination. The brachialis is also an important stabiliser in eccentric contraction. Eccentric contraction occurs when an active muscle lengthens, whereas concentric contraction is when a muscle shortens. The brachialis is therefore important for precise movements involving lowering the forearm via extension at the elbow joint. Such as when putting down an object. So that completes this tutorial on the brachialis muscle. If you found this video helpful, please hit the like button, subscribe to the channel and check out our Patreon page. Thanks for watching.