Okay, so I'm going to just quickly run you through some of the functions of the large terminal nerves. So we'll start off with the the muscularcutaneous nerve which comes off the lateral cord. So this this nerve is responsible for innovating the three flexor muscles of the anterior compartment of the arm. So we've got the biceps brachi muscle, the brachiialis muscle and the caracco brachiialis muscle. So the ulna nerve is responsible for innovating the all the intrinsic muscles of the hand except for the thear muscles and the lateral two lumbricals which are innovated by the median nerve. So as the na nerve passes through the forearm into the hand, it innovates two muscles in the forearm. So it innovates the flexor karpy alnarus muscle and the medial half of the flexor digtorum profundus muscle. So I've just isolated those muscles on this model and you can see the the flexor carpialis muscle and you can see the flexor digitor profundus muscle and in the hand the alnner nerve is responsible for innovating all the intrinsic muscles except for the thear muscles. So you've got the abductor policus brevis, the um flexor policus brevis and the opponent's policus. And also you've got the lateral two lumples here. So you've got the thear group of muscles here and you've got the lateral two lumbercles over here and these are innovated by the median nerve. But all the other intrinsic muscles are innovated by the ulna nerve. So in terms of sensory innovation, the alnner nerve provides innovation to the the medial one and a half fingers. So you've got the little finger and half of the ring finger. And you've also got innovation provided over the medial aspect of the hand and the wrist on the palmer surface. And on the dorsal surface of the the hand, you can see the area of innovation provided by the armor nerve. So you've got the medial part of the dorsal surface of the wrist and hand innovated by the nerve. So the median nerve is formed by the union of the br these roots that come from the lateral and medial cords. So you've got the lateral root from the lateral cord and the medial root from the medial cord and they unite and the median nerve is formed anterior to the last part of the auxiliary nerve. So this diagram illustrates it quite nicely. So you've got the lateral cord and you've got the medial cord and you've got the lateral and medial roots of the median nerve uniting in front of the axillary artery to form the median nerve. So the median nerve innovates all the other muscles of the anterior compartment which the alnner nerve doesn't innovate. So it innovates all the muscles except the flexor cararpy alnaris and the medial half of the flexor digtor profundus muscle. And in the hand you know which muscles are innovated because it's the ones that are not innovated by the onner nerve. So you've got the thear muscles and the lateral two lumbicles which are innovated by the median nerve. And in terms of sensory innovation you can see the distribution of innovation in pink here. So the median nerve innovates the lateral three and a half digits. So you've got the thumb, index, middle, and half of the ring. And then you've got the lateral surface of the wrist and the hand. So this distribution of sensory innovation provided by the median nerve. So coming to the the terminal nerves of the posterior cord, you've got the auxiliary nerve and the radial nerve. So the auxiliary nerve provides innovation to three muscles. So you've got the deltoid muscle here. You've got the tererry's minor muscle and also it innovates the long head of the triceps brachi muscle. And in terms of sensory innovation, you've got a branch which comes off the axillary nerve called the superior lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm. And this this nerve innovates um the area of skin in this sort of deltoid region. So you can see this area of innovation in blue here. And on the posterior surface, it has this distribution of sensory innovation. Just while we're on this on this image here, I forgot to mention earlier that the muscularcutaneous nerve actually terminates as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm. And you can see this area of sensory innovation laterally on the forearm as the name suggests. So this is an anterior view and posteriorly you can see this area of area of innovation. So that's the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm. So the the final nerve is the radial nerve. So this is the largest terminal branch of the posterior cord. And this nerve innovates all the muscles in the posterior compartment of the arm and the forearm. So it also provides innovation to the skin on the posterior surface of the arm and forearm. And you can see this distribution in pink here. So branches of the radial nerve innovate the skin on the back of the arm and forearm. And also on the dorsal surface of the hand, you've got this area of innovation.