So obviously as you can see here it's got these little branches which are given off these gastric branches which are given off to both surfaces of the stomach and it's also got a mental branches which descend to supply the greater amum. So I've just switched back to this diagram with the stomach in its normal orientation. So you've got the splenic artery here and it's got this long torturous course and it enters the high of the spleen and it gives off it gives off the um the little short gastric arteries to the fundus of the stomach and it also gives off this um the left gastroepiploic artery. So obviously this runs behind the stomach but I'm just drawing on for to illustrate. Um, and remember you've got the little pancreatic branches here given off to the neck body and tail of the pancreas. So you can see the left gastroepidic artery running across here and the gastric branches supplying both surfaces of the stomach. And you've got these these vessels here which descend and supply the greater amum. So if you remember in my peritinal tutorial, the greater momentum hangs down in front of the small intestine. So something worth mentioning is that I've been referring to this um artery as the gastroepiploic but you might see it referred to as the gastro and mental artery. So worth bearing that in mind. So now we're coming on to the final branch of the celiac trunk. So this is the common hpatic artery and you can see it here as it comes off the celiac trunk it turns right and you've got two it has two terminal branches. So it gives off the proper hypatic artery which goes to the liver which I'm showing you here and it's got the gastroadeninal artery which descends to supply the giraodenum and the head of the pancreas. So it also gives off a branch which supplies the surface of the stomach and we've seen this branch before. It's the right gastroepiploic artery. So it's called the gastroodeninal artery because it gives off a branch to the stomach the gastro part and it it gives off a branch which supplies the geodenum. So the geodinal part. So it's the gastro geodinal artery. So if you've been listening carefully to this tutorial you'll know what this branch is here. So this is the right um right gastric artery which anastmoses with the left gastric artery. So the origin of the right gastric artery is variable. So it can come off the common hpatic artery or it can come off the proper hypatic artery. But what you need to know is that it comes off and it runs along the the lesser curvature of the stomach and anastmoses with the left gastric artery. So the common hpatic splits into the proper hypatic and the gastrodiodinal artery. So let's follow the proper hypatic artery to the liver. So you can see here there's two clear divisions and there's no prizes for guessing what these two are. So the one on the left is the left hippatic artery and the one on the right is the right hypatic artery. So this division occurs just before it enters the porter hippatis. So you can also see this little vessel given off. Um, and this comes off the right hippatic artery and it's called the cystic artery and it supplies the gallbladder. So you can see the gallbladder. It's a little sack here. So finally we've got to take a look at this other branch of the common hippatic artery, the gastroeodinal artery. So there's no there's no diodenum in this picture. So I'm going to flick over to the other diagram I showed you. So we're looking at this descending branch here, the gastroadeninal artery. So before the gastroadeninal artery descends, it sometimes gives off a branch called the supra giodinal artery which supplies the top part of the geodenum. So we've got the pyloris here of the stomach and we've got the geodenum with its C-shape sitting around the head of the pancreas. So the first branch we'll look at is this one coming off here. And you can see it curves around the greater curvature of the stomach. So hopefully you will know what this is because we saw the other one before coming off the left of the splenic artery and that was the left gastroepiploic artery. So this branch coming off the gastroadeninal artery is the right gastroepiploic artery and it anastmoses with the left gastroepiploic artery. So after the next branch of the gastro geodinal artery is the superior pancreaticoal artery. So it's quite a mouthful but it is very descriptive of what the artery does and where it's located. So it's superior because there's also an inferior one. um and it's called pancreatico diodeninal because it supplies the head of the pancreas and also the diodinum. So there is an inferior pancreatic odiodinal artery which comes off the superior misenteric artery. So like we've seen all these anastmosing vessels we've seen the left gastric anastimosing with the right gastric on the lesser curvature of the stomach. We've seen the left gastroepiploic and the right gastroepiploic anastmosing on the greater curvature of the stomach. And now we're seeing an anastmosis between the superior pancreatic odiodinal artery and the inferior pancreatic artery. So the superior pancreatic odiodinal artery comes off the gastroadinal artery and it supplies the diodenum and the head of the pancreas and it it it anastmoses with the inferior pancreatic geodinal artery which comes off the super superior misenteric artery. So just to further confuse things, the superior pancreatic giodinal artery and its inferior counterpart have anterior and posterior branches. So it's not shown in this diagram, but I'm going to draw it on to illustrate it for you. So we're looking at here we've got the anterior superior pancreaticoal artery because it it lies anterior to the uh to the head of the pancreas. But there's also the the superior pancreatic giodeninal artery also gives off a posterior branch which runs behind the pancreas and then it joins up again with the inferior pancreaticoal artery. So just to recap things, you've got the celiac trunk. Then you've got the common hpatic artery which gives off the proper hypatic artery which sends off branches to the liver and the gallbladder. And then you've got the gastroeodinal artery which sends off branches to supply the head of the pancreas and the geodenum as well as this branch supplies the um surface of the stomach and anastmosis with a branch from the splenic artery. So the gastroeodinal artery gives off the right gastroepiploic artery and then it gives off the superior pancreatic giodinal artery and the superior pancreatic artery gives off branches anteriorly and posteriorly and these branches unite inferiorly to form the inferior pancreatic artery which is given off by the superior misenteric artery. So that's the branches of the celiac trunk. And I really hope that's cleared things up.