So next I'd like to move on to the cervix. So what we're looking at here is the cervix bulging into the end of the vagina. So the portion of the cervix projecting into the vagina is known as the ectoervix and I've outlined this in blue. And then you've got the bit which lines this canal running inside the cervix. So this is the endocervical canal. So you've got the ectoervix and the endoservix. So the endoservix is lined with columna epithelium whereas the ectoervix which is continuous with the vagina is lined with squamus epithelium. So where the columnar epithelium meets the squamus epithelium is called the squamo columnar junction. So during pregnancy and during puberty you get aversion of the cervix. So you get the pushing out of these column cells which line the endoservix and as a result they're then exposed to the acidic environment of the vagina. So what happens when the columnar epithelium are exposed to this acidic environment is that you get metiplasia which is a changing of the cell type from columna to squamus epithelium. And this area of change from column to squamus is called the transformation zone. And this zone is important because at this area the cervix is susceptible to neoplastic change and ultimately to the possibility of cervical carcinoma. So a common benign condition to be aware of is a cervical ectropion which is also called a cervical erosion. So like I just mentioned during puberty and during pregnancy the cervix protrudes out and you get exposure of the column cells to the vagina. So on speculum examination you can see the ectropion or erosion around the cervical loss and it's visible as a sort of reddish area. So this is a normal finding in younger women, pregnant women and those women who are using the pill and it often presents with postcoal bleeding. So that's bleeding after intercourse. So two other important conditions to talk about are the pre-malignant pre-invasive stage of cervical cancer which is called cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and the other is malignant carcinoma of the cervix. So on the left here I've drawn a very quick diagram of a layer of epithelial cells sitting upon the basement membrane. So invasive cancer is cancer that has spread through the basin membrane. So cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or CIN is this pre-invasive stage of cervical cancer. So it hasn't yet gone through the basement membrane. So in this premalignant condition, you've got atypical cells. You've got displastic cells. And the way that it's detected is often with a smear test. So a smear test is a pyological test where cells are sampled from this transformation zone of the cervix which is the most common origin or location for cells to go under this displastic change. So it's important to note that the smear is a cytoological test. It detects cellular changes rather than histoologgical changes. But the the degree of disariosis which is the degree of cellular change actually reflects the severity of of the CIN the cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and these cellular changes are changes in the nuclear size and also changes in the rate of motic division. So essentially it's a hisytological diagnosis but the cellular changes do correspond to what is actually seen on histologology. So there are three grades of sin. So in grade one you've got mild dysplasia and this affects the lower third of the epithelium. In sin two you've got moderate dysplasia which affects the lower 2/3 of the epithelium. And in sin 3 you've got full thickness involvement of the epithelium. So this is called carcinoma in situ. So at this stage if the abnormal cells invade through the basement membrane you have cervical cancer. So in cervical carcinoma it most often occurs near the external ass at the transformation zone and one of the most common causes is the human papilloma virus HPV and 90% of the time cervical carcinoma is a is of this squamus type. So squamus cell carcinoma or SEC and then the second most common type is adenocarcinoma which involves cells of glandular origin. So those are some important conditions to be aware of in relation to the cervix.