 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the external ear. So the external ear consists of two parts. The outer part, the auricle, also known as the pinna, projects from the side of the head. And then we have the external auditory meatus, or external acoustic canal, which leads to the middle ear. So let's take a look at the auricle first. The auricle is a cartilaginous structure covered by the auricle. The auricle is a cartilaginous structure covered by skin, which projects from the side of the head, and is involved in capturing sound. It consists of the following parts. This outer bit here is the helix, this curved outer rim. And then just anterior to the helix, we have the anti-helix. There are two crura, or limbs, which form this Y shape, with the superior cross and the inferior cross. The lobule is this fleshy, non-cartilaginous part, which forms the inferior part of the auricle. And this is what's known as your earlobe. The contra is found at the centre of the auricle. And the external auditory meatus forms medially from here. This here is the tragus, which is seen anterior to the external auditory meatus. And then on the opposite side, we have the anti-tragus, superior to the fleshy lobule. In terms of the muscles of the external ear, you've got both intrinsic and extrinsic muscles associated with the auricle. The intrinsic muscles run through the cartilaginous framework of the auricle itself, whereas the extrinsic muscles consist of three auricular muscles. You've got the anterior, the superior, and the posterior auricular muscles. There are several nerves which provide sensory innervation to the auricle. The deep parts of the auricle are supplied by branches of the facial nerve, cranial nerve number seven, as well as the vagus nerve, number 10. The superficial or more peripheral parts of the auricle are supplied by the greater auricular and the lesser occipital nerves. And these arise from the cervical plexus. And you've also got innervation provided by the auricular temporal branch of the mandibular nerve. The third branch of the trigeminal nerve. The arterial supply to the auricle is from branches of the external carotid artery. The posterior auricular artery. The superficial temporal artery. And the occipital artery. The external auditory meatus lies deep to the concha and extends medially to the tympanic membrane, which is also known as the eardrum. It takes an S-shaped course. It's not entirely straight. So during otoscopic examination, the auricle is pulled up and backwards to straighten it out. The lateral third of the external auditory meatus is cartilaginous, whereas the medial two thirds are bony, formed by the temporal bone. It's lined by skin along its course and contains small hair cells and specialised sweat glands, which produce cerumen, also known as earwax. In terms of the sensory innervation to the external auditory meatus, it receives branches from the auriculotemporal nerve and the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. The tympanic membrane is a thin membrane which separates the external ear from the middle ear compartment. It transmits sounds received by the external auditory meatus to the ossicles of the middle ear, via the oval window and into the cochlea. It's attached to the temporal bone by a peripheral fibrocartilaginous ring and it's angulated medially from superior to inferior and from posterior to anterior. So we're now taking a look at the tympanic membrane here. And if you just imagine looking directly into the ear canal as you would do during otoscopy, this is what the diagram is showing here. Anterior is on the right of the diagram and posterior is on the left of the diagram. This point here is the umbo, which is a concavity where the handle or manubrium of the malleus attaches. I've returned to the 3D model coronal section just to show you the relationship of the malleus to the tympanic membrane as you saw in the diagram. You can see here the lateral process of the malleus superiorly and the handle of the malleus or manubrium extending inferiorly along the inner surface of the tympanic membrane with its tip at the umbo. Just superior to umbo and slightly anterior, we have the lateral process of the malleus. And then extending anteriorly and posteriorly from the lateral process, we have the anterior and posterior malleolar folds respectively. You can see here this small triangular area just above the malleolar folds. This is an area where the tympanic membrane is a little bit thinner and looser and is known as the pars flaccida. The rest of the tympanic membrane is thicker and tighter and is known as the pars tensor. This small area here, just seen antero inferior to umbo, is known as the cone of light. And this is where we get a reflection of light on otoscopy. In terms of innervation, the outer surface of the tympanic membrane is innervated by the 5th, 7th and 10th nerves, so the trigeminal facial and vagus nerves. And the inner surface is innervated by the 9th nerve, the glossopharyngeal nerve. So that's the anatomy of the external ear. If you've enjoyed this video, give it a like, subscribe to my channel, and check out the link in the video description for an interactive 3D model of the anatomy that you've seen today. Thanks for watching.