Okay, so this is a tutorial on the extrinsic muscles of the back. Um, the extrinsic muscles of the back are those muscles which are superficial and are responsible for movements at the shoulder and upper limb. Um, these are different to the intrinsic muscles of the back which are deep and which are responsible for controlling uh posture and movement of the spine and head. So the extrinsic muscles of the back are the trapezius, the latisimus dorsy, the romboid major minor and the levator scapula. So I'll just um working superficially to deep I'll just show you these muscles. Um, so I'll start with the trapezius, which is this muscle here, which you probably all know, big um, trapezium shaped muscle, which is why it's called the trapezius. Um, and it basically extends from the external occipital pertubants here all the way down to the lowest um, thoracic vertebrae T12, the spine of T12. Um and laterally it inserts um along the spine of the scapula and um posteriorly on the distal end of the clavicle which you can't quite see but it inserts just at the back of the clavicle here and also on the acromian of the scapula. Um so this muscle is responsible for elevating and depressing the scapula and it also can retract the scapula. Um it's innovated by the axillary nerve sorry the accessory nerve which is the 11th cranial nerve. um and it receives sensory innovation from the vententral rami of C3 and C4. Um all the extrinsic muscles are innovated by the vententral rami as opposed to the dorsal rami because uh these muscles insert onto the insert onto the upper limbs whereas the intrinsic muscles which are primarily innovated by the um posterior rami are deeper and are just responsible for attaching to the and controlling the posture. and movement of the spine. So that's the trapezius. Huge muscle here. Just get rid of that. Um the next muscle is the latisimus dorsy. Um and it's called that because in Latin latisimus means the broadest. Um and dorsy means back. So it's basically the broadest muscle of the back. Um so this muscle um inserts into the humorus uh in between the the insertion points of the pec major and the uh what's this one terrace major. Um and for that reason it's often referred to as the lady between two majors. So inserts in the intertubaccular groove of the humorus in between the teris major and the pec teralus major. So this huge muscle the latisimus dorsy um adducts the arm extends um and internally rotates the humus. It's innovated by uh spinal n C6 7 and 8. So moving on um under just underneath the trapezius which I've removed here we now have the we can now see the roboid muscles. So this is the roboid minor here. Zoom in a bit closer. So the roboid minor and the romboid major. So these just lie deep to the trapezius muscle. Um and as you can see here they insert onto the or sorry they originate on the spines of the vertebra. So the romboid minor here um originates on the spine of C7 and T1 and inserts onto the medial border of the scapula. And the romboid major originates um on the spinus processes of T2 to T5 and inserts medially on the scapula. So these muscles basically keep the scapula pressed against the thoracic wall. Um and they can retract the scapula when the trapezius is contracted. So they act as antagonist to the trapezius muscle. Um they're both innovated by the dorsal scapular nerve um which come off [snorts] C3 spinal nerve C3 and C4. Um so these are the romboids. The last extrinsic muscle of the back is the levatus scapularis or well collectively the levus scapula. Um so I'll just get rid of the romboids. had a good look at those and underneath them you can see the levator scapularis. Um so this it's this muscle here. Um and as you can tell by the name um this muscle elevates the scapula. So levator it's Latin I guess for lifting lifter or something like that. So it elevates the scapula. Um so we can see just at its origin it's covered by this muscle here the sternocclone mastoid and the splenous capus. Oops. Okay. So if we zoom in we can see exactly where it originates on the transverse process of the first vertebrae. And then if we follow the path down, we can see that it inserts on the superior angle of the scapula and the adjacent uh medial border. So that's the levator scapularis and um it's innovated by branches of C4 and C5 and it elevates the scapula. So just to recap the extrinsic muscles of the back, we've got the trapezius, the latisimus dorsy, the romboid major, the roboid minor, and the levator scapula. These two muscles here.