Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy Zone and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the arterial supply to the foot. This tutorial follows on from the one I did on the arterial supply to the leg. The foot is supplied by branches of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. We've got the anterior tibial artery here in yellow and the posterior tibula in pink. The anterior tibial artery becomes the dorsalis pedus artery which is the dorsal arter of the foot and you can see that highlighted here in green. The posterior tibial artery on the other hand terminates by dividing into the medial and lateral planter arteries. And you can see the medial planter artery given off in the blue color and the lateral planter artery given off in the yellow. So let's take a look at the dorsalis pedus artery and its branches. Now I've just zoomed in a little bit closer and we can take a look at the branches. So the dorsalis pedus artery gives off tarsel arteries. It gives off the first dorsal metatarsal artery and it also gives off the aruate artery. So proximally in the light blue and dark blue color are the tarsel arteries and you've got lateral and medial tarsel arteries. As you can see here laterally the lateral tarsel artery here anastmoses with this branch of the dorsalis pedus artery in yellow the aruate artery. So you can see how the dorsalis pedus artery divides to give off the aruate artery and it also gives off this branch the first dorsal metatarsal artery which is shaded in red. So if I just move the model a little bit distally we can see that the aruate artery gives off these three metatarsal arteries. So it gives off the metatarsal arteries two to four. The first metatarsal artery comes directly off the dorsalis pedus artery and then looking distally you can see how the metatarsal arteries divide into two. So they divide into dorsal digital arteries which supply the distal fanges. You might notice that there isn't a fifth dorsal metatarsal artery. And you can see that the little toe is actually supplied by a branch of the fourth dorsal metatarsal artery. Looking at the first dorsal metatarsal artery, this one's slightly different. So it divides into two branches. One branch supplies the medial hock and the other branch divides into two just like the other metatarsal arteries to supply the lateral aspect of the hock and the second toe. I've just switched to a different view and what we can see here is a branch of the dorsalus pedis artery which links it to the arterial supply on the planter aspect of the foot. This artery is the deep planter artery and it connects the dorsalis pedus to the planter arch on the planter aspect of the foot. So let's take a look now at the branches of the posterior tibial artery which supply the planter arteries of the foot. We're looking now at a medial view of the foot and we can see the posterior tibial artery in purple. So this artery divides into the medial and lateral planter arteries which I described before. The medial plantar artery highlighted in light blue and the lateral planter artery highlighted in yellow. Just before the posterior tibial artery terminates into these medial and lateral plant arteries, it gives off a communicating branch which joins the communicating branch of the fibula artery. And it also gives off this calccanial branch which you can see in green. So I've just rotated the model around so we're looking at a planter view of the foot. The medial planter artery is the smaller of the two arteries and it runs alongside the medial aspect of the foot. It gives off a superficial branch as it approaches to the base of the first metatarsal. You can see these two branches here, one in red and one in orange. So there's a deep and a superficial branch. The superficial branch then anastmoses with a branch of the first planter metatarsal artery which you can see here. So coming back to this view, we've got in yellow the lateral planter artery. So this is the larger of the two planter arteries. And if you follow its course, we can see that it gives off this branch which I've highlighted in red that supplies the small toe. This is the lateral plantto digital artery of the fifth toe. So if I just rotate the model around slightly again, we can return to see the artery here highlighted in a light blue color. This is the deep planter artery from the dorsalis pedus artery. And this joins this branch highlighted in green of the lateral planter artery to form the planter arch. The planter arch as you can see runs from the base of the fifth metatarsal to the first interosius space. And just like on the dorsal surface, the arcuate artery gives rise to four planter metatarsal arteries which you can see here in purple. And these again divide into two planted digital arteries which you can see distally in light blue color. I've just changed the angle slightly so we can see the first planter metatarsal artery arising just after the point where the deep planter artery joins the planter arch. So just like on the dorsal surface of the foot on the planter surface the first planter metatarsal artery divides into two. It sends one branch medially to supply the medial aspect of the hock and the other branch divides into two planted digital arteries highlighted in blue which supply the second toe and the lateral aspect of the hock. The medial branch of the first planter metatarsal artery anastmosis with this superficial branch of the medial planter artery which I showed you earlier. The final thing to mention is that there are perforating arteries which pass from the planter to dorsal aspect and there are three of these which you can see here. So that's the arterial supply to the foot.