 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the major internal for the skull and the different structures that pass through. To support us in creating more content please hit the like button below, subscribe to our channel for updates and check out our Patreon page. Let's rotate to a superior view and remove some of the calvarial bones to take a look at the cranial floor. We'll start from the anterior cranial fossa and work posteriorly, looking at the foramen of the foramen of the foramen of the foramen of the foramen. We'll be looking at the foramen of the foramen of the skull base and the structures that pass through these. Just as a note, foramen is plural for for foramen, which is an opening which allows the structure to pass from one part of the body to another. The main foramen that you need to know about within the anterior cranial fossa are the cribriform foramen in the cribriform plate of the ethymoid bone. This bone contains multiple tiny little foramen which transmits the axons from the olfactory epithelium of the nose via the nose via the olfactory nerves to the olfactory bulb. Returning to the superior view, the other foramen in the anterior cranial fossa are the foramen cecum and the anterior and posterior ethymoidal foramen. The foramen cecum is seen at the base of the frontal crest where it articulates with the ethymoid bone and it transmits the nasal emissary veins connecting the nasal cavity to the superior sagittal sinus. The anterior and posterior ethymoidal foramen are small foramen which lie either side of the olfactory groove which transmit the anterior and posterior ethymoidal nerves and vessels. I've just centred the model and moving posteriorly into the middle cranial fossa, these two openings we see here within the sphenoid bone between the lesser wings and the body are the optic canals. The optic canal transmits the optic nerve, cranial nerve number 2 and the ophthalmic artery which is a branch of the internal carotid artery. I've just switched to an anterior view of the skull to show you how the optic canal opens up into the orbital apex to transmit these structures. Just lateral to the optic canal you can see a large opening, a fissure known as the superior orbital fissure. Let's return to our intracranial view and take a look at this internally. We can see our optic canals again where we left off and if I just tilt the model so that we can look underneath the shelf formed by the lesser wing of the sphenoid, we can see the superior orbital fissure. This fissure lies between the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid and opens into the orbit as we just saw from the anterior view of the skull. The superior orbital fissure transmits the remaining cranial nerves that are associated with the eye. So we saw that the optic nerve passed into the optic canals. So the remaining cranial nerves to do with the eye are the oculomotor, trochlea, abducens and the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. Specifically, the lacrimal, frontal and nasociliary branches. In addition, the ophthalmic veins and sympathetic fibres from the cavernous plexus pass through, but this isn't shown on this model. Returning now to the superior view, there are a few more foramenia to know about within the sphenoid bone. Just posterior lateral to the superior orbital fissure is the foramen rotundum, which as the name suggests, is a round opening. As I rotate to an oblique view, you can see the relationship to the superior orbital fissure. It takes a horizontal course opening into the pterygopalatine fossa, which is a small but complex space deep within the face, which serves as an important junction of neurovascular structures. I'll do a separate tutorial on this specific topic as there's a lot to talk about here. Returning to a lateral view, we can see that the maxillary nerve, the second branch of the trigeminal, passes through this opening. Coming posterior lateral again, we come to the foramen ovale, which is a large foramen, and as the name suggests, this is an oval-shaped opening. This foramen opens inferiorly into the infratemporal fossa and transmits the mandibular nerve and the accessory meningeal branch of the maxillary artery. The key structure to remember is the mandibular nerve, which is the third branch of the trigeminal, cranial nerve number 5. Just posterior lateral to the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum. This also connects the middle cranial fossa to the infratemporal fossa. It transmits the middle meningeal artery and vein, and the meningeal branch of the mandibular nerve, which we just saw. The key structure to remember here is the middle meningeal artery, which is a branch of the maxillary artery, which itself arises as one of the two terminal branches from the external carotid artery. The last two openings in the middle cranial fossa to mention are the carotid canal and the foramen lacerum. I've just switched to an inferior view, looking at the external surface of the skull base. You can see how the internal carotid artery enters the temporal bone and passes into the carotid canal, which opens up internally, just posterior medial to the foramen ovale, just next to the foramen lacerum. The foramen lacerum is this jagged opening, which gets its name due to its appearance from the Latin lacerum, which means lacerated. It lies adjacent to the hypophysial fossa, and is actually closed off and filled by a plug of cartilage after birth. There are some small meningeal arterial branches and small veins that pass through the cartilage, but the key relationship is to that of the internal carotid artery, which passes along the superior aspect of the cartilage to enter the cavernous sinus. The final thing to mention within the middle cranial fossa are the grooves for the greater and lesser petrosal nerves, which aren't really foramen, but I'll mention them here for reference. Coming to the posterior cranial fossa now, the first foramen to mention is the internal auditory, or acoustic, meatus. Arising from the cerebellopontine angle, the facial nerve, cranial nerve 7, and the vestibulococular nerve, cranial nerve 8, pass into this bony canal through its opening, which is known as the porus acousticus internus. In addition, the labyrinthine artery, a branch of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery, may also enter this opening. I've returned again to our superior view, and we'll work our way inferiorly within the posterior cranial fossa to find the jugular foramen, which is a large opening through which several structures pass. It can be thought of in three sections, anterior, middle, and posterior sections. Three cranial nerves pass through the middle section. The glossopharyngeal nerve, cranial nerve 9, the vagus nerve, cranial nerve 10, and the cranial part of the accessory nerve, cranial nerve 11. The inferior petrosal sinus passes into the anterior part of the jugular foramen, and the sigmoid sinus passes into the posterior compartment to form the internal jugular vein. We'll take a look at the anatomy of the dural venous sinuses in due course. In addition, there are meningeal branches of the pharyngeal and occipital arteries which pass through the posterior part of the jugular foramen. Next, we have the hypoglossal canal, through which the 12th cranial nerve, the hypoglossal nerve, passes. Finally, we come to the largest foramen of the skull, formed by the occipital bone, the foramen magnum. The main structures that pass through include the medulla oblongata, the vertebral arteries, the spinal root of the accessory nerve, and the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, which are not shown here. So that completes this tutorial on the major internal foramen of the skull. If you found this video helpful, please hit the like button, subscribe to the channel, and check out our Patreon page. Thanks for watching.