see from the bottom. So just to orientate you a bit, you've got this this hole here, the fammen ovali and remember mandi's oval. So the mandibular branch of the trigeminal passes through there which you can't see on this side but I've put it in here. There's the mandibular branch of the trigeminal passing through there. So that's the famemen ovali and then remember lateral and posterior to that you've got the famemen spinosum. So you can see the middle menial artery going in there just rotate it around so you can have a look at that. So we've rotated the skull upside down and we're looking at the inferior view. So you've got the fammen ovali the famemen spinosum and you've got the middle menial artery passing through there. So just while we're in this view, you can see just posterior to this, you've got the optic canal. I mean, sorry, what am I talking about? The corroted canal and it's called the corroted canal because the internal corroted artery passes through this uh little hole and then it joins the circle of Willis at the base of the brain. So you can see this complex arterial supply to the brain. So it's if we just follow the you've got the corroted common croted here and it bifocates into the external croted with all its multiple branches and I'm going to do a tutorial on this. And you've got the internal croted which um passes through uh the croted canal into the brain and it joins here with the circle of Willis. So that passes through the croted canal which is here and obviously you've got that on either side. Try and ignore these um labels. They're just put up here for me to get the right display. But that's the croted canal and with the internal croted and the middle menial artery passing through the framan spinosum. Okay. So coming to the posterior cranial fossa. So all this this bit here. Um we've now got the internal audit miatus the jugular fammen and the hypoglossal hypoglossal canal. So the internal auditory matus has two cranial nerves passing through it and if you look at the origin of these cranial nerves um you can see them at the bottom of the ponds and laterally. So we've got the vestibular cockular nerve and the facial nerve. So cranial nerves seven and eight. So cranial nerve seven which is the facial nerve. Um so you can see it's slightly anterior to the vestibular cockia nerve which is this one here. and they run through the internal audiary matus. So also passing through the internal audiary matus but not on this model here as the labyrinthine artery. So you've got the facial nerve, the vestibular cockular nerve and the labyrinthine artery going through the internal auditory miatus. And again it's quite logical if you think about it because the vestibular cockia nerve is to do with hearing and balance and internal audiary matus kind of gives away the fact that um it's it's an it's a frame to do with hearing auditory and then you've got the vestibular uh vestibular co um nerve passing through that. So it's quite logical if you think about these things. So just inferior to this just we've got the jugular framan just looking at this view again. So we've just done the internal audit matus which is up here and now we're looking at the jugular framan which is here and then you've got the hypoglossical canal further down which is the next one I'm going to talk about. So the jugular framen has loads of structures that pass through it. It's called the jugular framan for a reason because the internal jugular passes through it. So I've just flicked back to the base of the skull view. So you can see what I'm doing here base of the skull. So that was the corroted canal. So posterior to that and slightly lateral you've got the jugular fammen and you can see all these structures passing out. So all these nerves passing out which you saw in the other view. And you've got this vein, the internal jugular vein, which passes through the jugular fammen, hence the name. So just I'll just rotate it around a bit. You can see zoom out again. Try and ignore all these labels and just look where my mouse is pointing. So you've got the internal jugular vein passing up here. coming off the superior venneova and then passing through the jugular frame and into the inside of the skull. So flicking back to the view from inside. So just just so you can have a look what we're looking at. We're looking at the jugular framan here. So just zoom in a bit again and I'll just talk about the nerves. So we've got a couple of nerves that pass through the jugular framan. We've got the um 9th, 10th and 11th cranial nerves. So these nerves emerge from the medulla. And the most superior one, we've got the ninth nerve, the glossoparangal nerve. Then we've got the vagus nerve. And then we've got this nerve which has um uh it goes through both this framan and the framan magnum. So these three nerves which emerge from the medulla, the glossoparangal nerve, the vagus nerve and the accessory nerve. So cranial nerves 9, 10, and 11 pass through the jugular framan. So that's four structures to remember. You've got cranial nerves 9, 10, and 11, and you've got the internal jugular vein. So just having a look at that again from the base. So you've got the internal jugular vein and you've got all these nerves coming out of the jug of the frame. So, next we're going to be looking at this uh the hypoglossal hypoglossal canal. Um no prizes for guessing what passes through that. Um but just having a look at a close look. If I rotate around to the front, you can see this nerve here, which is the 12th cranial nerve emerging ventrally on the brain stem on the medulla. So the hypoglossal nerve passes through the hypoglossal canal. So this this little fammen here and you can see that nerve from the base of the skull view. So just you've got the jugular frame in here. You've got the croted canal here where the internal croted. You've got the jugular framan with its three nerves and the internal jugulate and you've got the hypoglossal canal where the hypoglossal nerve emerges the 12th cranial nerve. So just to finish up um obviously this big hole is the framan magnum and here you've got the beginning of the spinal cord at the junction where the brain stem meets the spinal cord passing through here. You've got vertebral arteries um passing through here and you've got the spinal roots of the accessory nerve. So remember the accessory nerve cranial nerve 11 passes through the jugular framen and also through the framen magnum. It's got two um two roots. You've got the roots up here and this and the spinal roots which pass through the framen magnum. So that's the framan magnum with the uh obviously the spinal cord passes through there and the brain stem the vertical arteries and the spinal roots of the accessory nerve. Um and just one more thing if you remember this fammen here from the previous tutorial the famemen lasserum um this no structures pass through this and in in life it's filled with cartilage. Okay, so I know that was a long tutorial, but hopefully you now know what vessels and nerves pass through the different framen and you have a good idea of the um different framen in the skull.