Okay, so this is a tutorial on the general skeleton. Um, I won't be going into a lot of detail about each individual bone and all their features. If you want to learn a bit more about that, then have a look at some of my other tutorials. Um, so the skeleton has both fused and individual bones and it acts basically as a framework for muscles to attach to. Uh, and it also protects and supports organs such as the heart, lungs, and brain. Um, bones are connected at joints by ligaments, which on this model here are these little white things. And muscles are attached to bones by tendons. And you've also got cartilage, which can be found uh between various joints. So the skeleton can be um thought of as um well it's broken into an axial and appendicular skeleton. So the axial skeleton uh consists of the bones along the central axis of the human body. So the there are six bones which make up the well not six bones six things that you need to remember that make up the axial skeleton. So you've got the skull, the oicles which are little bones in the middle ear, the hyo hyoid bone, the rib cage, the sternum, and the vertebral column. So I'll just quickly show you those. So these bones are the make up the axial axial skeleton, which is the central axis of the human skeleton. So the first bone is the skull, which yeah, you probably don't need to be told. The oicles actually aren't on this model, but they're little tiny bones in the middle ear. This bone in the throat is the hy hyoid bone. So, click that out. Then the sternum here and the rib cage which is the set of ribs and then the vertebral column. So that's the axial skeleton and as you can see it's central. The appendicular skeleton as you can probably guess comes from the word appendage. So that basically means something that's attached onto something else. So it's essentially all the rest of the bones that aren't in the axial skeleton. So all your limbs um and this the axial the sorry appendicular skeleton is involved with movement. So you've got the appendicular skeleton and the axial skeleton. So when you come across those words you'll hopefully know what it now what they mean. So just to begin with we'll start going through the bones of the body. Um I'll start at the top and work my way down. So, we've got the skull here. Um, and the skull consists of the cranium, which is this. And that cons in itself consists of many different bones, but we'll look at those in another tutorial. Um, and then you've got the mandible. So, the skull consists of the cranium and the mandible. So next you've got the vertebral column which extends right from the base of the skull here all the way down to meet the pelvis. So in the vertebral column you've got 24 articulating vertebrae which is these little bones individual bones. And then at the end of all all of them, you've got the sacrum and you've got the coxix. And the sacrum and the coxus coxix consist of fused bones. So within the vertebrae you've got the first seven vertebrae are the cervical vertebrae and then you've got the next 12 which are in the chest region and these vertebrae articulate with the ribs. These are known as the thoracic vertebrae and then you've got the lumbar vertebrae. five lumbar vertebrae in the lower back region. So you've got seven cervical, 12 thoracic and five lumbar vertebrae. So I've already shown you the hyoid bone here um and spoken about the oicles. The next part of the axial skeleton is the sternum. So this central bone here, otherwise known as the breast bone. So there's three parts to the sternum, it doesn't have them labeled, but um the first part here is the manubrium, and then you've got the body of the sternum here, and then this is the zifoid process or the zifo uh zify sternum. So that's the breast bone. And this little joint here between the manubrium and the body of the sternum is known as the angle of Louis um or the sternal angle. And it's quite important to know this. It's an anatomic important anatomical landmark because this is where the second rib joins. So when you're doing physical examinations on patients or something, you can use this landmark because you know it's the second rib. And so if you're looking for the apex beat for instance, which you know is in the fifth intercostal space, mid-clavicular line, you can feel for this little angle here, the angle of Louis, and then it's three intercostal spaces down. And then in the mid-clavicular line, bring in the heart. So you know that this is the uh second intercostal space because it's after the angle of Louis. And then you just count down to the fifth intercostal space. and you can find your what you're looking for. So that's that that's the sternum. And then you've got the ribs here um which is uh part of the appendic uh the axial skeleton. So you have got 12 pairs of ribs. So 24 ribs you've got and then these um 12 ribs get broken down into true and false ribs. So you've got seven true ribs and five false ribs. So these things here are are the costal cartilagages and they link the ribs to the sternum. So the true ribs, the first seven ribs are the um ribs which have their own costal cartilage. So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. So they've got their own costal cartilagages. And then you've got five false ribs. So these these um these next three ribs have a common costal cartilage. They don't have their own one. So they're false ribs. And then you've got these two these two little ribs below that the 11th and 12th ribs which are known as floating ribs because they don't even have a costal cartridge. They don't connect to the sternum. They only attach to the vertebrae. So, you've got 12 pairs of ribs, and of those 12 pairs, you've got seven true ribs, five false ribs, and of those five ribs, you've got two floating ribs. So, that's the axial skeleton that I've just covered. Now, I'll just talk a bit about the appendicular skeleton and show you the bones of that. So, just starting Oops. Starting from the top, um, we've got these two bones here, which are the clavicles. Um, or you may know them as the collar bones. And you can see these on yourself. So, and you can feel them on yourself. So, if I just show you that, you can see that little indentation, which is the clavicle, where the clavicle lies. And then you've got your upper limbs. So you've got your upper arm, your forearm, and then your hand. So the bones of the upper arm are known as the um humorus. So this bone here is the humorus. And in the lower arm, you've got the radius and na. So the ulna is the bone which is medial in the anatomical position. The radius is lateral and the anatomical position. So these are the two bones of the lower arm. And then in the hand you've got quite a lot of bones. You've got the carpals, you've got eight carpal bones, which I'll I'll do a tutorial on, separate tutorial on. You've got the metacarpals and you've got the felanges which are the fingers, the digits. So if I just show you that you can see that you've got three fanges there metacarpals carpal bones. So that's that's the bones of the upper limb. And if I just rotate this around you can see this bone here which is the scapula and this articulates with the humorus. And this is you'll be able to feel this on yourself again. Um and you it's often referred to as the shoulder blade. So that's the scapula. Okay. So working our way down. Um so now we've got the pelvis here. And the pelvis um consists of the pelvic girdle which is these big two hipbones. And then you've got uh the pelvic region of the spine. So the sacrum, the sacrum and the coxix. So that's the pelvis. Um so these these pelvic bones are known as the coxa and they they consist of three fused bones. You've got the illium, the isium, and the pubis. So each hipbone or coxa consists of three fused bones ilium, issium, and pubis. So that's that's the pelvis. And then coming down to the lower limbs, you've got the leg, you've got the thigh, the lower leg, and the foot. So this big bone here is known as the feur, and it's the largest bone in the body. And in the lower leg, you've got the tibia and the fibula. And the fibula is lateral. And you can feel this little bit here, the head of the fibula on yourself. So it's that little bump on the outside of your leg just next to your knee. Have a look there. You can see where it lies. Just here. So you've got the tibulant fibula and then in the foot you've got the t like like in the hand you've got carpal bones. In the foot you've got tarscels. So in the foot you've got seven tarsel bones. Again I'll cover these in more detail in another tutorial. Then you've got the metacarpals and the fanges which are your toes. So you can see that. And then you got the patella, which is your kneecap here. So I think that covers the general skeleton. I hope you've got a good understanding of it now. Um, if you want more detailed tutorials on the individual bones and the different features, then I'll be doing a few soon. So, check back and have a look out for those.