Okay, so this tutorial is on the deep and intermediate muscles of the back. It kind of follows on from the tutorial on the superficial muscles, the extrinsic muscles of the back. So hopefully you should have should have watched that before going on to watching this one. Um, but the intermediate muscles of the back are those muscles which attach to the ribs and are involved in respiratory function. And the deep muscles of the back are uh also known as the intrinsic muscles because they uh have their embryo embryological development in the back and these muscles are innovated by posterior rami of spinal nerves and they are involved in moving the spine and head. So I'll just talk first about the intermediate muscles. So just removing the extrinsic muscles here which you should all know by now. Okay. So got rid of those. Those were the extrinsic muscles that I got just got rid of. So here we have the intermediate muscles and the only two muscles that you need to know. Um and they are the seratus posterior superior and the seratus posterior inferior. We'll just take a look at those. That's that one. And we've got one the seratus posterior info. So those are the in uh the intermediate muscles of the back. And as you can see they're attached to the ribs here and they originate from the spinus processes. So they elevate and depress the ribs. The superior um seratus posterior elevates the ribs and the seratus posterior inferior depresses the ribs which is quite logical. Okay. So next we have the um deep muscles of the back. So we've gone from the extrinsic muscles down to the intermediate muscles and now we're moving on to the deep muscles of the back. So I'll just get rid of these intermediate back muscles and underneath we have the intrinsic muscles. So like I said before these muscles are in innovated by the posterior rami of spinal nerves. Um and these muscles extend from the pelvis uh right up to the skull. Um and they have their development they develop in the back. Um so these muscles are involved with moving the vertebral column and in moving the head and neck. The muscles which are involved with moving the head and neck are called the spino transversales muscles. And you've got two spino transansversalis muscles. The splenus capus and the splenous cervus which for some reason is not shown on this model. Um but the splenus capus here is this big muscle. So I'll just click that so you can have a look at look at it a bit clearly. So the splenus capus originates here and inserts onto the skull. So again trying to just imagine what function this has. If if I just tilt it here, you can see that if this muscle contracts, the skull is drawn backwards. So the neck is extended. And that's if they're both acting together. So if they're both acting together, the neck is extended and the head is drawn backwards. If um one muscle if if the Spanish capus individually contracts then you can see that the head will be rotated round to one side. So together the splenus capus will draw the head back and extend the neck and if they are if it contracts individually it will just rotate the mus rotate the head round to one side. So the two spino transversal muscles are the splenus capus which is these two muscles here and the splenus cervus which isn't shown on this um model for some reason but it it originates just below the splenus capus and inserts onto the transverse process of the um of vertebra C1. Okay. So, those were the those two muscles move the head and neck. And next I'm going to talk about the erectus spina muscles. Um so you've got these muscles which move the vertebral column and you've got the erectuspina and the transversal muscles. So first I'll talk about the erectuspina because they're more superficial and then I'll move on to the transversal muscles which lie underneath the erectus spina spina muscles however you pronounce it. Um so the erectuspina muscles are the largest group of muscles in the back intrinsic muscles in the back. Um and they are primary extensions of the vertebral column and head. So you've got I'll just highlight these muscles so you can see them a bit more clearly. So these are the erectus spina just bring it in to view a bit better. So you've got three groups of muscles here. You've got the ilio costalis which is most lateral, the longimus, and then you've got the spinalis which is most medial. So you've got those three muscles, the iliacalis, the longusimus, and the spinus. and they all have um they attach at all all these different regions of the vertebral column. So one way of remembering the um the erectus spina muscles you've got the pneummonic I long for spinach. So ilioalis lateral longusimus med um in between the two and spinalis most medial. So I long for spinach or you could remember it the way I try and remember things. So costalis sort of ribs their most lateral. Spinalis lies right on the spine. So more medial and then longest lies between the two. So those are the erectus spina muscles and they um move the vertebral column extend the vertebral column. So just the next group of muscles is the transverso spinal muscles which lie underneath the erector spino muscles. And the reason they're called transverso spinles if you watch the tutorial on the um on the individual features of the vertebra um you'll remember the transverse process and the spinus process. And the reason they're called transversal muscles is because they connect from the transverse process to this spinus process. Okay. So the there are three sp transversalis muscles. You've got the the most superficial one is the semi-pinolus and then you've got the multifidis and the most deep transversal muscle are the rotares. So you've got the semipanalus, the multifidis, and the rotarus. And those muscles are called the transverso spinolus because they connect from the transverse process to the spinus process. So just to recap over what I've shown you, just quickly go through it. I've shown you the intermediate and intrinsic and deep muscles of the back. So the intermediate muscles, you've got the seratus posterior, superior and inferior and they are involved in elevating and depressing the ribs. You've got the muscles which move the head and neck, the splenous capus which is shown here and the splenous ser cervocus which is here but for some reason isn't on this model. And then you've got the erectus spino muscles. So I long for spinach or ilio costalis, longusimus and uh spinalis. And then deep to those you've got the transverso spanales muscles. So you've got the semispanales, the multifidis, and then you've got the rot rotary underneath. So that's the intermediate and deep muscles of the back.