So next we're going to take a look at the basic anatomy of the penis. So the penis is a common outlet for the passage of both semen and urine. And it contains these venus sinuses which can fill with blood and cause the penis to become erect. So essentially you have three tubes which make up the penis. On either side of the penis you've got two corpus or corpora cavosa. So you can see these on either side and then the inferior aspect if I rotate the model you can see that the there's this single central tube which is known as the corpus spongiosum. So you've got two corpora cavosa and you've got one corpus spongiosum. So these three tubes make up the penis. So let's just take a look at the attachment of the corpora cavosa. So if I rotate the model posteriorly, you can see that the two corpora cavosa attach to the pelvis and they attach on the isial rami. So these proximal bits of the corpora cavosa are known as the kura which is Latin for legs. So curus is singular. So proximally they attach to the pelvis and distally if I rotate round you can see that they come to form the end of the penis the gland's penis and then if we take a look at the corpus spongiosum which runs down the middle on the under surface of the penis you can see that it has this bulb at the end so this is the bulb of the penis and it's here where the bulbo urethral glands release their secretions. So the bulb is attached to the paranal membrane. So the proximal ends of these structures so the cura of the corpora cavosa and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum form the root of the penis and the body of the penis is the is the free part of the penis formed by these three tubes. So the penis has certain ligaments which attach to its base. It's got a suspensary ligament and a funiform ligament. So I've just switched over to a sagittal section of the male reproductive system and I'll show you the suspensory ligament of the penis. So it's just here attaching to the base of the penis at one end and at the other end it attaches to the symphysis pubis. So the other ligament is the funiform ligament of the penis and this is more superficial and it actually attaches above to the linear alba. So the linear elbow is this midline of the anterior abdominal wall where the abdominal muscles fuse centrally. So if I just zoom in a bit further, the funform ligament attaches superiorly to this linear alba and then what it does is it kind of goes around either side of the base of the penis and it forms this sort of sling by connecting inferiorly underneath the penis. So, that's an introduction to the male reproductive system. In the next tutorials, we'll take a look at the blood supply to some of these structures.