Okay, so this is a tutorial on the knee joint. So the knee joint is the largest sinovial joint in the body and it's this these articulations between the feur and the tibia and also between the patella and the feur. So it's um it's a hinge joint and the main movements you get at this joint are flexion and extension. So in this position here which we're looking at the model, this is in the fully extended position. So you get flexion and extension. So flexion is back this way and extension is up this way. And you also get a little bit of um rotation at this joint. So when the joint is flexed, so when the femur is pulled up this way, you get a little bit of um uh medial and lateral rotation. But in in full extension, which is what we're looking at here, so in the standing position, the the feur medially rotates on the tibia and the joint is locked into position. And you've got ligaments on either side, collateral ligaments, which uh tighten to lock this joint into into into position. So it's stable in this position. And then to unlock the joint, the the feur is laterally rotated on the tibia. So first we'll just take a look at the um the articular surfaces of this joint. So the articular surfaces are covered by high highline cartilage. Um and you've got the femoral condiles. So I'll just rotate it back. So you've got these two femoral condiles articulating with the tibial condiles of the tibia. So the superior aspect of the tibial condiles. So we've got a medial and a lateral femal condile here. Um, and we've got the same for the for the for the tibia. So, we've got medial and lateral tibial condiles. And the articular surface of the tubial condiles is the superior surface which I'll show you in a moment. So, the two femoral condiles here are separated by this region which sits between them. This is the interondila fossa. Um so this this this fossa this intercondola fossa is the area where the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments um have their proximal attachment. So I'll come on to talk talk about that in a in a moment. Um and just just above the the condiles you've got epicondiles. So this is the a site of proximal detachment for the collateral ligaments the medial and lateral collateral ligaments or the tibial and fibular lateral uh fibular collateral ligaments. So the epicondiles are actually they're not articular. So you've got these epicondiles here where the collateral ligaments attach. And then anteriorly, if I just remove the patella bone, um, you've got this little sort of groove in the feur where the where the patella articulates. So, we'll just take a look at the the tibia as well. So, the proximal look at the proximal tibia. So, you've got the tibial condiles which articulate with the um femoral condiles. So you've got a medial tibial condile and a lateral tibial condile. And I'll just remove the uh the other bone so we can look at the superior aspect of the tibial conduct. So I'm just going to rotate rotate the model. So we're looking looking at the superior aspect and you can see the the um sort of faded fibula. So that's this side is lateral, this side's medial, and we've got anterior up here, posterior back here. So I'll just fade out those bones now, and we'll look at the superior surface of this bone. So this is the articular surface of the the tibia, tibial condiles. So medially we've got well we're looking at the superior surface of the medial condile and here's the superior surface of the lateral tibial condile and in between these two condiles you've got this region so the interondila region and this this region is important because you get the cartilage the minisci of the knee joint attaching in this region and also the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments attach in this region and I'll show do that. I will show you that in this tutorial. So this whole this whole region this whole superior surface is referred to as the tibial plateau. So it consists of the articular surfaces of the um the tibial condiles and this intercondola region. So that's the tibial plateau. So if I just rotate the model around a little bit, you can see that there's this sort of there's this eminence this protuberance of bone. So this is the intercondiler eminence and um laterally we've got the lateral interondila tubicle and medially we've got the medial intercondola tubicle. So just while we're um we're looking at this view um I'll just talk a little bit about the minisci. So these are two these are fibrocartilagynous structures which sit um on either side and they're cresantshaped. So the miniski are um are also called semi lunar cartilagages because of their sort of half moon shape and they they function really to act as shock shock absorbers and they sort of accommodate changes in the movements of the bones at this joint. So I'll just switch over to another diagram. So we're looking at uh the exact same view. We're looking superiorly at the tibia at the tibial plateau and this is anterior up here posterior down this side. So you can see these cresant shaped meniscus. So you've got a medial meniscus and a lateral meniscus. And you can see how they attach in this central intercondola region. You've also got the anterior crucet and posterior crucet ligaments attaching in this um intercondular region. So you can see anteriorly that there's this ligament which connects the two menisci. So this is called the transverse ligament. So some other things to mention are that the the medial meniscus is actually attached um attached medially to the tibial collateral ligament um or sort of blended with the fibers of the tibial collateral ligament and also to the capsule of the joint of the knee. So it's actually it's not very mobile because of these attachments. Whereas the lateral meniscus um doesn't have these attachments to the joint capsule. So it's a lot more mobile.