 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the latissimus dorsi. The latissimus dorsi is a large fan-shaped muscle on the back and is one of the superficial extrinsic back muscles. The other superficial extrinsic back muscles are the trapezius, levator scapulae, rhomboid major, and rhomboid minor, and rhomboid minor. The name latissimus dorsi, and rhomboid minor. The name latissimus dorsi comes from the latin, latissimus meaning the broadest, and dorsi referring to the back, so the largest muscle of the back, so the largest muscle of the back. It is in fact one of the largest muscles in the body in surface area, and as you can see, it stretches across a large part of the back, passing from the spine in the midline, to act directly on the glenohumeral joint, and indirectly on the pectoral girdle. originates on the spinous processes of the lower thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, from levels T7 to L5, as well as the sacrum via the thoracolumbar fascia, the iliac crest, the inferior angle of the scapula, and the inferior 3 to 4 ribs. There is a degree of anatomical variation with these origins, and the muscle may take origin from as little as 4, or as many as 8 thoracic vertebral spinous processes, and similarly, the number of costal attachments are varied. In addition, the latissimus dorsi may or may not attach to the iliac crest. The muscle fibres of the latissimus dorsi converge superolaterally towards the axilla, winding around the anterior aspect of the teres major muscle, before inserting via a flat tendon onto the anterior aspect of the proximal humerus on the floor of the intertubercular sulcus. This sulcus is so named, as it lies between the greater and lesser tubercles of the humerus. Just returning to the posterior view, as you can see here, just before inserting, the muscle fibres twist, which means that the superior fibres at the midline of the muscle insert on the lowest part of the sulcus, and the lower fibres at the midline insert higher on the sulcus. I've just removed the latissimus dorsi, and you can see that the location of the insertion on the floor of the intertubercular sulcus lies between the insertion of the pectoralis major and the teres major muscle. This relationship can be remembered by the mnemonic, the lady between two majors, lady referring to the latissimus, and majors referring to the pectoralis and teres major muscles. In terms of innovation, it's innovated by the thurasodorsal nerve, coming off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus and deriving its fibres from the C6 to C8 spinal nerve roots. It's interesting to note that while the latissimus dorsi is a posteriorly located structure, its nerve fibres arise from the ventral rami of the spinal nerves. This muscle is predominantly supplied by the thurasodorsal branch of the subscapular artery, which is the largest branch of the axillary artery arising from its third part. In terms of its function, because the latissimus dorsi has attachments on both the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton, it produces movements both of the trunk and of the upper limb. The main functions of the latissimus are extension, adduction, and medial rotation of the humerus. In terms of adduction and medial rotation, the latissimus dorsi acts with the teres major and pectoralis major to produce this movement. For extension, the latissimus dorsi works with the sternal head of the pectoralis major, as well as the teres major. An important functional movement is to bring the body towards the arms when the upper extremities are fixed overhead, such as in climbing, or in terms of exercise, it's important for movements like chin-ups. In addition, the latissimus dorsi can serve as an accessory muscle of respiration and has been found to be active during deep inspiration and also with forceful exhalation, such as when sneezing or coughing. So that's the anatomy of the latissimus dorsi muscle. If you've found this video helpful, please hit the like button, and if you'd like to support our ongoing free anatomy video project, please head over to our Patreon page and check out the options. Thank you for watching.