 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this video we're going to take a look at the key features of the mandible. The mandible is the lower jaw bone and is the largest and strongest bone of the face. The term mandible is derived from the Latin mandere which means to chew. The mandible articulates with the calvaria at the temporomandibular joint. The mandible consists of a central body and a ramus on either side. The ram which is the ram which is the ram which is the ram which is ram which is ram which is ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram to demonstrate the alveolar process of the mandible, which extends superiorly from the mandibular body and houses the teeth. The teeth are contained within a specialised type of fibrous joint known as a gomphosis, which is a joint formed between the root of the tooth and the socket formed in the mandible or maxilla. I've just switched to a view of the internal surface of the mandible, and will review a few features here. The mental spines are seen either side of the symphysis in the midline. The superior mental spines provide the attachment for the genioglossus muscle. The inferior mental spines provide the attachment for the geniohyroid muscle. I've just zoomed in and rotated the model, and you can see this ridge on the internal surface, which extends posteriorly from the symphysis in the midline. This is the myelohyroid line, and gives origin to the myelohyroid muscle. Returning to the external surface of the mandible, let's take a look at the ramus. The ramus is the large, flat, lateral aspect of the mandible. The external, flat surface provides the origin for the powerful masseter muscle. The internal surface of the ramus provides the insertion site for the medial pterygoid muscle. There are two bony processes arising from the mandibular ramus, the coronoid process, the coronoid process, and the condyloid process. The coronoid process is a thin, flat eminence arising anteriorly and provides attachment for the temporalis muscle. The condyloid process is thicker and consists itself of the mandibular condyle and the mandibular neck. The mandibular condyle articulates with the temporal bone at the temporomandibular joint. Separating these two processes is the mandibular notch, a concave, semilunar depression which is traversed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. The lateral pterygoid muscle attaches to the neck of the condyloid process. The final thing to review are the foramen. There are two major foramen within the mandible, the mandibular foramen and the mental foramen. The mandibular foramen lies above the angle of the mandible on either side of the internal surface of the mandibular ramus. The inferior alveolar nerve, a branch of the mandibular nerve of the trigeminal, and the inferior alveolar artery enter the mandibular foramen and run anteriorly within the mandibular canal, exiting via the mental foramen. At the point of exit via the mental foramen, the nerve then becomes known as the mental nerve, providing sensory innervation to the lower lip and chin. So that concludes this quick tutorial on the mandible. If you found it useful, give us a thumbs up and subscribe to our channel. Thanks for watching.