

=== FILE: Anterior Cranial Fossa ｜ Skull Anatomy [4KcRRqgG21s].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the anatomy of the anterior cranial fossa. So the floor of the cranial cavity is divided into anterior, middle, middle and posterior cranial fossa. These are large depressions within the internal surface of the cranial base which house different parts of the cranial base which house different parts of the body. the brain and its associated structures. The anterior cranial fascia is the shallowest and most superior cranial fascia. The anterior cranial fascia contains the anterior and inferior parts of the frontal lobes of the brain and it contains the right and left or factory pathways. So coming back to a superior view of the anterior cranial fascia, let's zoom in a bit and take a look at some of the component parts. The floor is comprised of the frontal bone anteriorly and laterally. In the midline is the ethmoid bone. And posteriorly we have the sphenoid, specifically the body of the sphenoid and the lesser wing of the sphenoid. I've just switched over now to a sagittal section to demonstrate the relationship of the anterior cranial fossa to the nasal cavity and also to the orbits. This relationship is clinically important because nasal and orbital infection can potentially spread intracranially to the brain, resulting in meningoencephalitis. Now coming back to the superior intracranial view, let's take a look at some of the key features of the anterior cranial fossa. The frontal crest is this crest of bone in the midline and provides attachment for the phalx cerebri, which is a sheet of dura mater which separates the cerebral hemispheres superiorly. Just posterior to the frontal crest at its base where it articulates with the ethmoid bone is the foramen cecum. This foramen is rarely open in adults, but when it is, it transmits emissary venous connections to the nasal cavity. Just behind the frontal crest is the crista galley. This projects superiorly from the ethmoid, which is another point of attachment for the phalx cerebri. On either side of the crista galley is the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. This contains many tiny foramen for the olfactory nerves to pass through to the olfactory bulb. On either side of the ethmoid bone, the floor of the anterior cranial fossa is made up of the orbital part of the frontal bone. This forms the roof of the orbit and supports the frontal lobes and makes up the largest part of the anterior cranial fossa. The posterior aspect of the anterior cranial fossa behind the ethmoid and frontal bones is made up of the body and lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. The lesser wings extend laterally from the body of the sphenoid. Posterior to the lesser wings is the middle cranial fossa which we'll be taking a look at in the next tutorial. Medially, the lesser wing curves posteriorly to form the anterior clinoid process, the attachment for the tentorium cerebelli. This is the part of the dura which separates the posterior cerebrum from the cerebellum. The optic canal can be seen just anterior to the anterior clinoid process as this circular opening within the lesser wing. The optic canal transmits the ophthalmic artery and the optic nerve. The optic canal is actually included within the middle cranial fossa because it lies just behind the posterior boundary of the anterior cranial fossa. This boundary is formed by the anterior edge of the chiasmatic sulcus which you can see here as the groove between the optic canals which runs across the body of the sphenoid. So that's the anatomy of the anterior cranial fossa. In the next video we'll be looking at the anatomy of the middle cranial fossa. If you have found this video helpful, give us a like, subscribe to our channel and leave us a comment below. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Biceps Brachii ｜ Muscle Anatomy [MWuF57uNC0M].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jack at Anatomy zone and in this tutorial we're going to go through the anatomy of the biceps brachy muscle. The biceps or biceps brachy is the most superficial muscle of the anterior compartment of our arm. It extends from the scapula superiorly to the proximal forearm inferiorly. It sits above the two other muscles within the anterior compartment of the arm. Downach and the brachialis muscles. So our biceps has two heads. It has a long head and a short head. And it's known as a biarticular muscle because it extends across two joints. The shoulder joint and the elbow joint. So let's begin with its origin. The short head of biceps originates at the coracoid process. And that is this anterior projection that comes off of the scapula. The long head originates at the supraglenoid tubercle. So here is the tubercle just with the biceps removed. So the supraglenoid tubercle is found as a bump at the most superior aspect of the glenoid fossa. And the glenoid fossa is on the scapula and that houses the humeral head to form the shoulder joint. So the long head of biceps then passes underneath the transverse humeral ligament. So the transverse humeral ligament essentially braces the long head tendon within this which is the bicipital groove. So the long head of biceps runs through the bicipital groove which is held in place by the transverse humeral ligament. And that bicipital groove is found between the greater and lesser tubercles of the humerus. And just as a quick aside the biceps brachii as you said has these two heads but it's one of the most variable muscles and the most common variant is that of a third head which is typically found next to the short head of biceps. And that is found in about 10% of us. And actually there are even rarer cases of 4, 5 or more heads of the biceps being noted in people. So from their origin those two heads then join to form a common muscle belly. And then they attach through a common tendon into the radial tuberosity. So the radial tuberosity is on the proximal and medial aspect of the radius bone. And again in cadaveric studies it's been noted that in up to 40% of people that distal biceps tendon remains persistently divided so that in actual fact there are two separate tendons attaching into the radial tuberosity. And as a final note some would also argue the biceps brachii inserts to the bicipital aponeurosis. So this is a flat tendon sheet that comes off of the distal biceps tendon to provide reinforcement to an anatomical area of the front of the elbow that's called the cubital fossa. And what the bicipital aponeurosis is doing is predominantly providing protection to the structures underlying it. The big ones are the brachial artery and the median nerve as they run underneath the bicipital aponeurosis. In terms of its action the biceps brachii performs flexion of our elbow and it's also a very powerful supinator of the forearm. So because the biceps crosses the elbow and the shoulder and it's biarticular it should therefore exert some effect on the shoulder and in most textbooks that's written as flexion of the shoulder but what we've found is that actually what the biceps is doing is more of a dynamic stability role so rather than actually producing flexion of the shoulder it's providing support to the front of the shoulder as you start to flex your arm and that's stated to be sort of within the first 30 degrees or so. So considering the nerve supply to the biceps muscle it's innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. So the musculocutaneous nerve originates from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus and that lateral cord is made up of the anterior rami of the cervical nerve roots C5 C6 and C7. Now if we just look at the musculocutaneous nerve in isolation you can actually see that it runs underneath the biceps brachy muscle and above the brachialis and coracobrachialis muscles to innervate the biceps. The biceps receives its blood supply from the brachial artery. So this is the major blood vessel of the upper arm and it lies underneath the biceps muscle and it begins essentially as a continuation of the axillary artery. So as the axillary artery reaches the lower margin of the teres major muscle it then continues on as the brachial artery that then runs to supply the biceps muscle. And as a quick clinical point a clinically relevant condition to the biceps would be that of a tendon rupture. So this can occur either proximally at the bicipital groove where the long head of biceps ruptures or at the radial tuberosity where the distal tendon of the biceps ruptures. So if you rupture the long head of biceps then you may not get that much reduction in power because you've still got the presence of the short head. But of course if you rupture the distal biceps tendon at the radial tuberosity then you will lose power in flexion and significantly in supination and so those ruptures of the distal biceps tendon do need surgery. The long head of biceps can be managed non-operatively and these patients present with the clinical finding of asymmetry between their two biceps which is known as Popeye's sign. So that's the end of this tutorial on the biceps muscle. We hope you found this tutorial useful and if you have make sure you click the like button don't forget to subscribe to the channel and we'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Bones of the Calvaria  ｜ Skull Anatomy [-VmcVSC_eq8].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from AnatomyZone. This is the first tutorial in a series of the anatomy of the skull, in which we'll be learning about the bones of the calvaria. So the skull has 22 bones which supports the structures of the face and provides a protective cavity for the brain. The upper part of the skull is called the neurocranium which surrounds the cranial cavity and contains the brain. There are 8 bones which multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple multiple make up the facial skeleton, and we'll take a look at these in more detail in another tutorial. The mandible is the lower jaw bone and is the only movable bone of the skull, which articulates with the temporal bone at the temporomandibular joint. We will take a look at this bone separately in another tutorial. So let's focus in on the bones of the neurocranium. It consists of both paired bones and unpaired bones. The paired bones include the parietal and temporal bones, and the unpaired bones include the frontal, sphenoid, ethmoid and occipital bones. As I mentioned previously, the neurocranium can be divided into the calvarium and the cranial base. The calvarium consists of the frontal, parietal and the occipital bones, which are joined together by fibrous sutures. The cranial base consists of the lower parts of the frontal bones, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the temporal and the lower parts of the occipital bones. Some of these bones of the cranial base have complex and intricate anatomy, which we will focus on in separate tutorials. So let's now look at how the calvarial bones are connected and at some of their important features. The frontal bone makes up the forehead and forms the superior part of the rim of the orbit. I have done a separate tutorial on the anatomy and boundaries of the orbit for further information on this topic. So the supracillary arches are superior to the rim of the orbit bilaterally. The glabella is the name given to the depression between the supacillary arches and you can palpate this on yourself in between your eyebrows. The supraorbital foramen, also known as the supraorbital notch, is found at the medial part of the superior rim of each orbit and it transmits the supraorbital nerve and vessels. Looking at the medial part of the frontal bone, it dips down inferiorly and forms part of the medial rim of the orbit. Laterally, the frontal bone projects inferiorly to form the zygomatic process of the frontal bone, which articulates with the frontal process of the zygomatic bone. Looking at the posterior aspect of the frontal bone, you can see that it articulates with the parietal bone at a suture known as the coronal suture because it runs in the coronal plane. The lower part of the posterior edge of the frontal bone articulates with the greater wing of the sphenoid bone at the sphenofrontal suture. This junction where the frontal, parietal, sphenoid and temporal bones articulate is known as terion. It's clinically very important because it's very thin and weak and it can be easily fractured due to the number of articulations here. In addition, and of significant clinical importance, it overlies the anterior division of the middle meningeal artery. Fracture here can therefore damage this artery and result in an extradural haemorrhage. Moving on to the parietal bones now, there are two parietal bones which we've already seen anteriorly articulate with the frontal bone at the coronal suture. The parietal bones also articulate with the greater wing of the sphenoid at the sphenoparietal suture. Inferiorly, the parietal bone articulates with the temporal bone at the squamous suture. Looking superiorly in the midline, the parietal bones articulate with each other via the sagittal suture. Moving posteriorly, you can see how the parietal bones articulate with the occipital bone at the lamdoid suture. The last bone to talk about which makes up the calvaria is the occipital bone. Here we can see this flat part posteriorly known as the squamous part. The inferior aspect of the occipital bone consists of the basilar part, anterior to the foramen magnum. And the lateral parts lie lateral to the foramen magnum. The occipital condyles here are these two large protuberances which allow the cranium to articulate with the vertebral column. As well as the articulation with the parietal bones, the occipital bone articulates with the temporal bone anteriorly at the occipitomastoid suture. Looking posteriorly at the squamous part of the occipital bone, there are a few key landmarks to note. The first is the external occipital protuberance in the midline. The most prominent point of this is known as inian. Extending either side from the external occipital protuberance are the superior and inferior nuchal lines. So that's the first tutorial on the skull, looking at the calvarial bones of the neurocranium. Hopefully it's given you a good idea about the parts of the skull and how they fit together. In the next tutorials we'll be taking a look at the skull base, the facial skeleton, known as the viscerocranium, the major foramen of the skull, and I'll do a short tutorial on the sutures of the skull and some of the important craniometric points.

=== FILE: Boundaries of the Middle Ear ｜ Anatomy Tutorial [xYNzO5ogrMw].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the boundaries of the middle ear. The middle ear is an air-filled space within the temporal bone which lies between the tympanic membrane laterally and the inner ear medially. It contains three ossicles which connect the tympanic membrane to the inner ear at the oval window, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The ossicles transmit sound vibrations from the external parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall parall antrum. We've now switched to a 3D schematic to conceptualise the boundaries and structures passing through the walls of the middle ear. The middle ear has anterior, posterior, medial and lateral walls, as well as a roof and a floor. In this model, imagine you're looking directly into the right ear with an otoscope. This is a lateral view of the middle ear, but we've lifted off the lateral wall formed by the tympanic membrane to look inside. This back wall here is therefore the medial wall, this is the posterior wall, this is the anterior wall, this is the roof and this is the floor. The medial or labyrinthine wall is formed by the lateral aspect of the inner ear. The promontory is a convex protrusion formed by the bone overlying the basal turn of the cochlea. In this coronal section here, you see the relationship of the basal turn to the middle ear cleft forming the convex protrusion of the promontory. The promontory is covered by the tympanic plexus, which receives branches from the glossopharyngeal nerve, cranial nerve 9, and branches of the internal carotid plexus. Here you can see the lesser petrosal nerve, which is essentially a continuation of the tympanic nerve. The medial wall contains two openings and two prominences. The two openings include the oval window and the round window. The oval window lies posterior to the cochlear promontory and serves as the attachment for the stapes footplate, which is the final point of attachment for the ossicular chain. The round window lies posterior to the cochlear promontory. The two prominences include the facial canal prominence and the lateral semicircular canal prominence. The facial canal prominence is this bony ridge formed by the facial nerve canal. The lateral semicircular canal prominence sticks out laterally just above the facial nerve canal. I've switched back to the diagram because remember that the tympanic membrane has been removed in the 3D model in order to look into the middle ear cleft. The lateral or membranous wall is formed mainly by the tympanic membrane. The superior aspect is formed by the bony wall of the epitympanic recess. The roof or the tegmental wall is formed by a thin layer of bone known as the tegment tympani, which separates the middle ear from the middle cranial fossa. The floor or the jugular wall is formed by a thin layer of bone separating the tympanic cavity from the internal jugular vein. This contains a small aperture, the inferior tympanic canaliculus, which transmits the tympanic branch from the glossopharyngeal nerve. This is known as Jacobson's nerve. The posterior wall is also known as the mastoid wall, and inferiorly there's a bit of bone separating the middle ear cleft from the mastoid air cells. Superiorly is the aditus to the mastoid antrum, which is continuous with the epitympanic recess. The pyramidal eminence is a small conical projection in front of the vertical segment of the facial nerve. It contains the stapedius muscle, and has a small opening through which the tendon passes into the middle ear. Also within the posterior wall, at the angle between the posterior and lateral walls is the opening for the cauda tympani, the posterior canaliculus, which branches off from the mastoid segment of the facial nerve, cranial nerve number 7. The cauda tympani then traverses the middle ear cavity and exits via the anterior canaliculus in the anterior wall. In this model, the middle section of the nerve within the tympanic cavity has been cut. So lastly we have the anterior or carotid wall. Inferiorly, there's a thin layer of bone which separates the middle ear from the carotid canal. Superiorly, it contains the opening for the eustachian tube, also known as the pharyngo-tympanic tube, and the opening for the tensor tympani muscle, which is contained within a bony canal. I've just switched over to an illustration which shows the same view as the 3D schematic, and let's take a look at how these structures appear anatomically. In this dissection, we're looking into the ear from a lateral view, looking directly at the medial wall. Just like the model, this side is anterior and this side is posterior. Here we see the promontory formed by the bone overlying the basal turn of the cochlea, with the tympanic plexus and tympanic nerve. The stapes has been left in situ, covering the oval window. Post-tero-superiorly, on the lateral wall, we see the prominence of the facial canal, and the prominence of the lateral semicircular canal just above it. Anteriorly, we have the tensor tympani muscle within its bony canal, just above the eustachian tube, which you can see here. This structure is the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, and this nerve here is the greater petrosal nerve. Looking towards the posterior wall, we see the opening to the mastoid antrum, and this bit of bone separating the tympanic cavity from the mastoid air cells. Here is the pyramidal eminence, and you can see the tendon of the stapedus muscle piercing through. You can see the tympanic membrane has been dissected away, and this structure entering into the middle aircraft at the junction of the posterior and lateral walls is the chorda tympani. So that concludes this video on the anatomy of the boundaries of the middle ear. If you've enjoyed this video, hit the like button and subscribe to the channel. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Brachialis ｜ Muscle Anatomy [eYCld9bmQko].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the anatomy of the brachialis muscle. To support us in creating more content, please hit the like button below, subscribe to our channel for updates, and check out our Patreon page. The brachialis is a flat, fusiform muscle which lies posteriorly within the anterior compartment of the upper arm. The other muscles are the caracobrachialis and the biceps brachiae. The muscles in the anterior compartment of the upper arm are innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve and produce flexion at the elbow joint. The muscles in the anterior compartment of the upper arm are innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve and produce flexion at the elbow joint. Most people are familiar with the superficially located biceps brachiae, which has its characteristic shape and peak as seen in well-trained athletes and bodybuilders. However, the deeper brachialis muscle is the main and strongest flexor of the elbow. The brachialis muscle originates from the anterior surface of the distal humus, near to the insertion of the elbow. It inserts onto the tuberosity of the ulna, as well as the anterior inferior surface of the ulna. I've just isolated the ulna bone to demonstrate the coronoid process, which you can see is this triangular prominence projecting from the proximal anterior ulna. Some research suggests that the brachialis has two distinct heads, a larger superficial head, proximally and laterally, and a deeper smaller head located medially and distally. The superficial head is suggested to insert onto the ulna tuberosity, whereas the fibres of the deep head are suggested to insert via an aponeurosis onto the coronoid process. The brachialis is innovated by the brachialis. The brachialis is innovated by the musculocutaneous nerve, which runs along the anterior surface of the muscle between the brachialis and overlying biceps brachii. The musculocutaneous nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus and derives its nerve fibres from spinal roots C5 to C7. In many people, the muscle receives dual innervation, with lateral innervation additionally supplied via the radial nerve. The brachialis receives its arterial supply from the brachial artery and the radial recurrent artery. The radial recurrent artery arises from the radial artery immediately below the elbow, and as a so-called recurrent artery, it therefore ascends back up the arm and passes between the brachioradialis muscle and the brachialis, supplying both of them, and then anastomosis with the profunda brachii, the deep artery of the arm, which itself arises from the brachial artery. As I mentioned at the start, the brachialis muscle is the primary muscle involved in elbow flexion, and it does so in all positions and at different degrees of forearm supination and pronation. It is a pure flexor, that is, unlike the biceps brachii muscle, which crosses multiple joints and has actions at the glenohumeral, humeroalna and radioalna joints, the brachialis solely works on the humeroalna joint to produce flexion. It does not have an attachment to the radius and is therefore not involved in pronation and supination. The brachialis is also an important stabiliser in eccentric contraction. Eccentric contraction occurs when an active muscle lengthens, whereas concentric contraction is when a muscle shortens. The brachialis is therefore important for precise movements involving lowering the forearm via extension at the elbow joint. Such as when putting down an object. So that completes this tutorial on the brachialis muscle. If you found this video helpful, please hit the like button, subscribe to the channel and check out our Patreon page. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Coracobrachialis ｜ Muscle Anatomy [6Jgtb6tcGZE].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jack at Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial I'm going to take you through the anatomy of the coracobrachialis muscle. So what I'll do is remove those other muscles so that we can concentrate more on the coracobrachialis. It originates from the coracoid process, which is this anterior projection off of the scapular bone. And from the coracoid process, it then passes through the axilla to attach to the medial side of the humeral shaft at approximately the level of the deltoid tubicle. The action of this muscle is to create flexion of the arm at the shoulder, but it also weakly contributes to adduction of the adduction at the shoulder as well. In terms of the nerve supply, like the other muscles within the anterior compartment of the arm, the coracobrachialis is supplied by the musculocutaneous nerve. And the musculocutaneous nerve originates from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus, which is made up of the anterior rami of the cervical nerve roots C5, 6 and 7. Now switching to the blood supply, the blood supply to the coracobrachialis comes from the brachial artery. The brachial artery originates as a continuation of our axillary artery and you can see here at the inferior margin of the teres major is where the brachial artery begins. In terms of relating this to a clinical condition, the coracobrachialis muscle can be involved in what's called musculocutaneous nerve entrapment syndrome. So as you can see, the musculocutaneous nerve passes behind the coracobrachialis muscle. So if this muscle becomes hypertrophied, such as if you were doing lots of repetitive exercises that require flexion and adduction of the humerus, like bench pressing, press ups over a really long time, you can get hypertrophy of the coracobrachialis muscle and therefore compression on the musculocutaneous nerve. Equally, if you get lots of injuries to the coracobrachialis muscle, you can also get calcium deposits at the back that compress onto that nerve. The symptoms of that injury would include anterior shoulder pain, but it also gives you weakness of elbow flexion. And that's because the musculocutaneous nerve supplies the brachialis and the biceps muscle, both of which perform elbow flexion. And so as well as the elbow flexion weakness, you can get loss of the sensation over the lateral forearm because the musculocutaneous nerve, as it reaches the elbow, continues on as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm that unsurprisingly supplies sensation to our lateral forearm. And treating this condition normally requires a period of rest, stretching exercises and some anti-inflammatory medication. So that's the end of this tutorial and we hope it's given you a good understanding of this muscle. If you've enjoyed this video, please click the like button. Don't forget to subscribe and come over and check our Patreon page. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Coronavirus COVID-19 ｜ Viral Structure & Pathogenesis [GQUCCkHNjN8].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, this video is the first in a new series we'll be producing on clinical conditions and their anatomical and pathological correlates. We will be taking a look in this video at the structure of the coronavirus responsible for the current pandemic and how its structure causes its clinical manifestation. Coronaviruses are a large family of common viruses which are found in humans and animals. Many cases of the common cold are due to common cold are due to a common cold are due to a coronavirus. They have caused two large-scale outbreaks in the past two decades. The SARS virus in 2002 and the MERS virus in 2012. It's generally been considered that these coronaviruses could cause future disease outbreaks because they're known to be able to evolve within animals and then jump to humans via an intermediate host. In SARS, palm civets and raccoon dogs were identified as the intermediate. CEST C! C C C C from bats to pangolins to humans in a local seafood market in Wuhan, China during 2019. COVID-19 refers to the coronavirus infectious disease found in 2019. The actual disease itself is referred to as COVID-19, but the virus is called the SARS-CoV-2, which stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2, and was named because its structure very closely resembles that of the SARS virus from 2002. This is the seventh known coronavirus to infect humans, two of which were similarly highly pathogenic, MERS and SARS. The other four are of low pathogenicity and endemic in humans. Let's now take a look at the structure of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So looking at this virus, we can see that it has a series of protein spikes on its surface, which when viewed under a microscope appear like a crown, which gives rise to the name corona, which is Latin for crown and is therefore common to all the coronaviruses. There are four structural proteins, which are similar to other coronaviruses. The S, the E, the M and the N proteins. The S stands for spike, the E stands for envelope, the M stands for membrane, and the N stands for nucleocapsid. So let's take a look at these different structural proteins in turn. Beginning with this crown-like structure, which is the S or spike protein. This protein is responsible for allowing the virus to attach to the membrane of the host cell. It contains a receptor binding domain, which recognises a specific receptor, the angiotensin converting enzyme receptor 2, which is expressed in the lungs, heart, kidneys, and intestines. It has been shown that this protein binds to the ACE2 receptor with at least the same affinity, and potentially as much as 20 times greater affinity than the SARS virus. This could be one of the explanations for the reasons why it's spreading so easily. The spike protein itself has two functional subunits. S1 binds to the host cell receptor, and S2 mediates the fusion of the viral and cellular membranes. Because of the critical role this protein plays in binding to target cells and cellular entry, it is a particular focus in the design of vaccinations and medical treatments for COVID-19. Let's take a look at the next protein, the M or membrane protein. The membrane protein is the most abundant on the viral surface, and defines the shape of the viral envelope. It can be thought of as the central organiser for coronavirus assembly, and interacts with the other structural proteins. Moving on to the E or envelope protein. This is the smallest of the major structural proteins on the viral membrane, which appears to have several roles. We know that it is integral in the assembly and release of the virus from host cells, and during viral replication, it is largely localised at the site of intracellular trafficking, more specifically at the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. So essentially, the M and E proteins play a critical role in turning the host cell apparatus into workshops, where the virus and our own cells work together to make new viral particles. Underneath the surface proteins, we have the viral envelope. This is the virus's outer layer that is derived from the host's cell membrane, so ourselves or the animals. It's a fatty layer and worth noting that in contact with soap, it will break down, killing the virus. And this is the reason why hand washing with soap is so important to prevent the spread of this virus. Underneath this layer is what's called the capsid. This is a protein shell that encloses the genetic material of the virus. Inside this capsid, we have the nucleocapsid, or N-protein. This protein is bound to the virus's single strand of RNA, which is where all its genetic information is held to allow itself to replicate. The N-protein appears to be multifunctional. In particular, it essentially inhibits a lot of the host cell's defence mechanisms and assists the viral RNA in replicating itself, and therefore in creating new viral particles. So we've looked now at some of the important structural features of the SARS coronavirus 2. A lot of our understanding of the pathogenesis of COVID-19 comes from work on the original SARS virus. Because the viral structures and morphology are so similar, there is likely to be significant crossover in the biochemical interactions and pathogenesis. Let's now look a little more at how the virus infects humans. So the virus is spread mainly by respiratory droplets, i.e. a cough or sneeze, which aerosolises the virus, allowing it to travel into our nasal or oral cavities. We also know that it can live on surfaces for hours and even up to a few days on some surfaces. So if you touch an infected surface, it's very easy to then touch your own face and inoculate the mucous membranes in your eyes, mouth or nose with the virus. Initially, it can get into the upper airway, so the nasal or throat area, and this is why you can get those symptoms like a common cold, stuffy nose, headache, sore throat and fever. It is within the mucosal epithelium of the upper respiratory tract where primary viral replication is thought to occur. Similar to SARS, SARS coronavirus 2 is able to get further into our respiratory system and into our lung epithelial cells, where further viral replication occurs. Let's talk a little bit more about the ACE2 receptor interaction. The SARS coronavirus 2 binds via its spike, or S protein, to the ACE2 receptor. This mechanism of binding is the same way that the SARS virus was able to bind to airway epithelial cells. The host cell has proteases, which are enzymes that break down proteins, and these cleave the spike protein. We think that this process activates the protein in order to trigger the process of membrane fusion before injecting the viral genome into the host cell. A similar mechanism of protein cleaving facilitates cell entry in influenza. As well as this mechanism of direct cellular entry, the virus may also enter the cell via endocytosis. This is the process by which material enters a cell after being surrounded by an area of the cell membrane, which then buds off inside the cell to form a vesicle. Once inside the cell, virus-specific RNA and proteins are synthesized within the cytoplasm. Further viral proteins are then assembled with the blueprint of information contained within the viral RNA using the host's cellular machinery, specifically the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, with specific processes to form the envelope glycoproteins. New virions are then assembled by fusing to the plasma membranes and released as vesicles via the cellular exocytic secretory processes. So the stresses placed on our own cells by viral infection, and the interaction of our own immune system with the viral antigens presented by the infected host cells, lead to cell death. During this process of cell death, multiple inflammatory mediators are released, which creates an inflammatory response, leading to a build-up of mucus and thickening and hyperplasia of the cells within our airways. This inflammation causes irritation of the cells lining our airways, which leads to the cough. Let's move further down into the lower respiratory tract now, and see how the virus acts within the lungs. So to get there, let's take a look at the path that the virus might take. So looking at the trachea, or the windpipe, this branches into left and right main bronchi. These bronchi branch into lobar bronchi. We have three on the right and two on the left. And these then branch into segmental bronchi. The segmental bronchi branch into bronchioles, which terminate as respiratory bronchioles, at the end of which are the alveoli. The alveoli are the tiny air-filled pockets responsible for gas exchange. We have around 600 million of these alveoli, and they are responsible for exchanging oxygen and carbon dioxide between the blood and the air we breathe in. Due to the direct action of the virus, and also due to our own immune system's response to viral infection, the alveolar walls can become inflamed and thickened, and fill the alveolus with fluid, which can impair their ability to exchange gases. And this can lead to the symptom of shortness of breath. In some people, this process of cellular infection by the SARS-CoV-2 virus can lead to an exaggerated immune response with a huge release of pro-inflammatory mediators, causing what is known as a cytokine storm, or cytokine release syndrome. Cytokines are small proteins involved in cell signaling, and are crucial in mediating immune responses. This cascade of inflammatory mediators causes an uncontrolled systemic inflammatory response, which leads to acute respiratory distress syndrome, or ARDS. This is the rapid and widespread inflammation in the lungs, which causes the epithelial and endothelial cells of the lungs to secrete inflammatory mediators, which fill the alveoli. In addition, these inflammatory signaling cells recruit other cells of the immune system into the alveoli, which further contributes to and amplifies the problem. Further, the systemic inflammatory state causes increased capillary permeability, which results in even more fluid entering the alveoli. So essentially, this is non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema compounding the problem. Overall, this pathological process severely impairs the ability of the lungs to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, as it's now become filled with fluid and inflammatory infiltrate. In cases of severe ARDS, invasive mechanical ventilation is required to adequately oxygenate the body. So that's what underpins the pathology at the extreme end of the spectrum. In the large majority of cases of COVID-19 infection, the disease follows a mild course as the virus is eliminated via normal immune processes. We will finish by taking a brief look at typical imaging findings. A chest radiograph may be normal in early disease, but when findings are present, we'll typically demonstrate bilateral, peripheral and basal airspace opacities. Pleural effusions are rarely seen in COVID-19 infection. On CT, as seen on these axial and coronal slices, typical findings are lower-lobe-predominant bilateral, subpleural ground-glass density opacities. While these findings are frequently seen in COVID-positive patients, these are not specific. The differential for these appearances includes other viral pneumonias, interstitial lung diseases such as cryptogenic organising pneumonia, and atypical bacterial pneumonias. So that completes this video on the structure and pathogenesis of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

=== FILE: Cubital Fossa ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [mdnTFA2588Q].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this video we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the cubital fossa. The cubital fossa is a triangular depression anterior to the elbow joint which contains several neurovascular structures forming a transition area between the upper arm and the forearm. We're first going to take a look at the boundaries and then we'll take a look at some of the key contents. The sides of the triangle which make a look at the triangle which make up the cubital fossa are comprised of two forearm muscles, the brachioradialis and the pronator teres. The lateral border of the cubital fossa is made up of the medial border of the brachioradialis, which originates from the lateral supraepicondylar ridge of the humerus. Its medial border is made up of the lateral border of the humerus. The apex of the triangle is formed where the two muscles meet inferiorly. The base of the triangle is formed by a horizontal line drawn between the medial and lateral epicondyles. The deep aspect of the cubital fossa or the floor is made up by two muscles, the brachialis muscle proximally and the supinator distally. The roof of the cubital fossa is made up from the bicipital aponeurosis as well as superficial fascia and skin. So let's take a look at some of the contents of the cubital fossa. From medial to lateral, you have the median nerve, the brachial artery, the biceps brachii tendon, the radial nerve and in the roof you have the median cubital vein. Coming back to the median nerve, this leaves the cubital fossa by passing between the ulna and humeral heads of the pronator teres muscle. The brachial artery branches into the radial artery and the ulna artery at the apex of the triangle. The biceps brachii tendon passes through the middle of the cubital fossa, attaching to the radial tuberosity. Laterally, we have the radial nerve. This passes under the brachioradialis muscle where it divides into superficial and deep branches. The final structure, the median cubital vein, passes within the roof of the cubital fossa. It connects the cephalic vein with the basilic vein. Other structures within the roof are the medial and lateral cutaneous nerves of the forearm. I just want to make a final point about the bicipital aponeurosis which I mentioned before. This is a flat connective tissue which attaches from the medial side of the biceps brachii tendon to the deep fascia of the forearm. It's important because it protects the brachial artery and median nerve, separating it from the median cubital vein. So that's the anatomy of the cubital fossa. If you've enjoyed this video, give it a like and subscribe to our channel. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Deltoid Muscle Anatomy ｜ AnatomyZone [Fx1alu8UThQ].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we will take a look at the anatomy of the deltoid muscle. The deltoid muscle is the large superficial muscle of the shoulder which gives its characteristic shape and contour. It's called the deltoid muscle because of its roughly triangular shape, which resembles the Greek capital letter delta. Let's take a look at the origins of the deltoid muscle. distinct sets of fibres on the basis of these three origins that I've just described. The anterior or clavicular fibres, the lateral or acromial fibres, and the posterior or spinal fibres. These different fibres of the deltoid are often referred to in strength training and bodybuilding circles, whereby different exercises are utilised to target the different fibres of the deltoid. In this way, they are referred to as the anterior, lateral and posterior deltoids, or delts. The fibres of the deltoid muscle converge to form a short tendon which inserts onto the deltoid tubercle, or deltoid tuberosity, on the lateral aspect of the humerus. The morphology of the deltoid muscle, with its three sets of fibres extending from anterior to posterior around the glenohumeral joint, mean that this muscle can produce several movements depending on whether the fibres contract independently or simultaneously. As you may expect from its origin, the anterior fibres draw the arm forwards to flex the shoulder, and they can also medially rotate the humerus. The posterior fibres do the opposite. They extend the shoulder and cause lateral rotation, or external rotation, of the humerus. The posterior fibres act synergistically with the trapezius and teres major muscles. The lateral fibres, arising from the acromion, are powerful abductors of the shoulder, and are assisted by the supraspinatus of the rotator cuff in this movement. The deltoid muscle receives its arterial supply via the acromial and deltoid branches of the thoracic acromial artery, and the anterior and posterior circumflex humeral arteries. It also receives supply from the subscapular artery and the deltoid branch of the profunda brachii. It is innervated by the axillary nerve, which arrives from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. So that's the anatomy of the deltoid muscle. If you have found this video useful, click like below and subscribe to Anatomy Zone for more videos. Thank you for watching. The 3D models used in this tutorial were powered by the excellent and free Anatomy Learning app. Check it out for yourself.

=== FILE: Dural Venous Sinuses ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [TX5Fxrg4SD4].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the anatomy of the dural venous sinuses. The dural venous sinuses are contained between the periosteal and meningeal layers of the dura. Just to recap some points from the tutorial on the meninges of the brain, there are three meningeal layers, the outer dura mater, the outer dura mater, and the inner arachnoid mater, and the peer mater. The periosteal layer of the dura mater lies in the upper arachnoid mater, the periosteal layer of the dura mater, the via the innominate or brachiocephalic veins on either side. Let's take a look at the configuration of these venous sinuses and at some of the key large veins and tributaries that you need to know about. Starting with the superior sagittal sinus, this large dual sinus, as its name suggests, is located superiorly in the midline and oriented in the sagittal plane. It runs in the attached border of the phalc cerebri, starting at the foramen cecum and running anterior to posterior, ending near the internal occipital protuberance. I've removed the brain and you can see this relationship better. The superior cerebral veins drain into the superior sagittal sinus. The superior sagittal sinus then connects with several other sinuses at the confluence of sinuses, where the superior sagittal, straight, occipital and transverse sinuses meet. Returning to the sagittal view, you can see a smaller sinus located inferiorly and running within the free border of the phalc cerebri. This is the inferior sagittal sinus. If we follow it posteriorly, we see that it drains to this sinus, the straight sinus, which is formed by the union of the inferior sagittal sinus and the great cerebral vein, which is commonly referred to by its eponymous name, the vein of Galen. I've just switched to a schematic to demonstrate the relationship of some of these veins. The great cerebral vein is one of the deep cerebral veins, the other important pair of deep cerebral veins being the internal cerebral veins. The paired internal cerebral veins run posteriorly to unite and join the basal vein of Rosenfowl to form the great cerebral vein of Galen. The straight sinus is angled posteriorly and inferiorly and drains into the confluence of sinuses. As a point of terminology, the confluence is also referred to as the torcular herophyllae. Extending laterally from the confluence of sinuses are the transverse sinuses. Coursing within a groove in the occipital bone, these drain into the sigmoid sinuses. I've just rotated to a superior view so that you can appreciate the morphology of both the sigmoid sinuses in relation to the transverse sinuses. It's very common for one transverse sinus to be larger than the other due to asymmetric drainage of blood. The larger transverse sinus is referred to as the dominant sinus. The sigmoid sinus gets its name from its curved, S-shaped morphology and passes into the jugular foramen to drain into the internal jugular vein. I also mentioned earlier the occipital sinus. This sinus extends from the foramen magnum to the internal occipital protuberance. The cavernus sinus is the next sinus to mention. This is an important anatomical landmark due to the structures that traverse this sinus. It's a large venous plexus situated on either side of the cella tersica. A plexus refers to a network of interconnected structures. The cavernus sinus is therefore comprised of multiple thin-walled veins, which is different to the other sinuses we've looked at. Its anterior border is seen at the superior orbital fissure, and posteriorly it extends to the petrous apex of the temporal bone. The superior and inferior ophthalmic veins drain into the cavernus sinus, and so do the superficial middle cerebral veins and the sphenoparietal sinus. The sphenoparietal sinus is a small sinus which runs underneath the lesser wing of sphenoid. The cavernus sinus itself is drained by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, which returns venous blood to the transverse sinuses and internal jugular veins, respectively. The petrosal sinuses are small sinuses, which as the name suggests, are located in relation to the petrous parts of the temporal bones. To finish with, I just want to point out the key relationships of some of the contents that traverse the cavernus sinus. There are five nerves, four of these passed within the lateral wall of the cavernus sinus. From superior to inferior, these are the oculomotor nerve, the trochlear nerve, and the ophthalmic and maxillary branches of the trigeminal nerve. Note that the mandibular division does not pass through the cavernus sinus. Passing medially is the abducens nerve and the internal carotid artery. It's important to remember these contents because pathology here, such as metastatic tumour, infection, or cavernus sinus thrombosis, can compress or compromise these structures. Neural compression could therefore be detected on cranial nerve assessment. So that completes this tutorial on the anatomy of the dual venous sinuses. If you have enjoyed this video or found it helpful, please click the like button, subscribe to our channel, and check out our Patreon page for updates. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: External Ear ｜ Anatomy Tutorial [P-5FpxkX5mo].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the external ear. So the external ear consists of two parts. The outer part, the auricle, also known as the pinna, projects from the side of the head. And then we have the external auditory meatus, or external acoustic canal, which leads to the middle ear. So let's take a look at the auricle first. The auricle is a cartilaginous structure covered by the auricle. The auricle is a cartilaginous structure covered by skin, which projects from the side of the head, and is involved in capturing sound. It consists of the following parts. This outer bit here is the helix, this curved outer rim. And then just anterior to the helix, we have the anti-helix. There are two crura, or limbs, which form this Y shape, with the superior cross and the inferior cross. The lobule is this fleshy, non-cartilaginous part, which forms the inferior part of the auricle. And this is what's known as your earlobe. The contra is found at the centre of the auricle. And the external auditory meatus forms medially from here. This here is the tragus, which is seen anterior to the external auditory meatus. And then on the opposite side, we have the anti-tragus, superior to the fleshy lobule. In terms of the muscles of the external ear, you've got both intrinsic and extrinsic muscles associated with the auricle. The intrinsic muscles run through the cartilaginous framework of the auricle itself, whereas the extrinsic muscles consist of three auricular muscles. You've got the anterior, the superior, and the posterior auricular muscles. There are several nerves which provide sensory innervation to the auricle. The deep parts of the auricle are supplied by branches of the facial nerve, cranial nerve number seven, as well as the vagus nerve, number 10. The superficial or more peripheral parts of the auricle are supplied by the greater auricular and the lesser occipital nerves. And these arise from the cervical plexus. And you've also got innervation provided by the auricular temporal branch of the mandibular nerve. The third branch of the trigeminal nerve. The arterial supply to the auricle is from branches of the external carotid artery. The posterior auricular artery. The superficial temporal artery. And the occipital artery. The external auditory meatus lies deep to the concha and extends medially to the tympanic membrane, which is also known as the eardrum. It takes an S-shaped course. It's not entirely straight. So during otoscopic examination, the auricle is pulled up and backwards to straighten it out. The lateral third of the external auditory meatus is cartilaginous, whereas the medial two thirds are bony, formed by the temporal bone. It's lined by skin along its course and contains small hair cells and specialised sweat glands, which produce cerumen, also known as earwax. In terms of the sensory innervation to the external auditory meatus, it receives branches from the auriculotemporal nerve and the auricular branch of the vagus nerve. The tympanic membrane is a thin membrane which separates the external ear from the middle ear compartment. It transmits sounds received by the external auditory meatus to the ossicles of the middle ear, via the oval window and into the cochlea. It's attached to the temporal bone by a peripheral fibrocartilaginous ring and it's angulated medially from superior to inferior and from posterior to anterior. So we're now taking a look at the tympanic membrane here. And if you just imagine looking directly into the ear canal as you would do during otoscopy, this is what the diagram is showing here. Anterior is on the right of the diagram and posterior is on the left of the diagram. This point here is the umbo, which is a concavity where the handle or manubrium of the malleus attaches. I've returned to the 3D model coronal section just to show you the relationship of the malleus to the tympanic membrane as you saw in the diagram. You can see here the lateral process of the malleus superiorly and the handle of the malleus or manubrium extending inferiorly along the inner surface of the tympanic membrane with its tip at the umbo. Just superior to umbo and slightly anterior, we have the lateral process of the malleus. And then extending anteriorly and posteriorly from the lateral process, we have the anterior and posterior malleolar folds respectively. You can see here this small triangular area just above the malleolar folds. This is an area where the tympanic membrane is a little bit thinner and looser and is known as the pars flaccida. The rest of the tympanic membrane is thicker and tighter and is known as the pars tensor. This small area here, just seen antero inferior to umbo, is known as the cone of light. And this is where we get a reflection of light on otoscopy. In terms of innervation, the outer surface of the tympanic membrane is innervated by the 5th, 7th and 10th nerves, so the trigeminal facial and vagus nerves. And the inner surface is innervated by the 9th nerve, the glossopharyngeal nerve. So that's the anatomy of the external ear. If you've enjoyed this video, give it a like, subscribe to my channel, and check out the link in the video description for an interactive 3D model of the anatomy that you've seen today. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Extraocular Muscles ｜ Eye Anatomy [f_rb6FMVHPk].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this tutorial we'll take a look at the extraocular muscles. This video is a collaboration between Anatomyzone and TeachMeanatomy.info. Check out the links in the video description below for some useful articles to accompany this video tutorial. The extraocular muscles are located within the orbit but are extrinsic and separate from the orbit. the реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб реб Functionally, they can be divided into two groups. The first group is responsible for eye movement, the recti and oblique muscles. And the second group is responsible for superior eyelid movement, that is the levator palpabri superioris. Before we take a look at these muscles, let's review the different movements of the eyeball. We will use the pupil as the point of reference for movement. The pupil can be moved up and down, which is known as elevation and depression. Abduction and adduction of the eyeball causes the pupil to be moved laterally and medially, respectively. The eyeball also has torsional movements, which bring the eyeball towards the nose, intorsion, and away from the nose, extorsion. These movements are also referred to as internal and external rotation. Let's take a look now at the levator palpabri superioris. This long name is the descriptive Latin name, which literally translates as the elevator of the upper eyelid. The levator palpabri superioris is the only muscle involved in raising the superior eyelid. The eyelids contain a structure called the tarsus, a superior tarsus in the upper eyelid and an inferior tarsus in the lower eyelid, which provides significant support for the structure of the eyelids. A collection of smooth muscle fibers attaches from the levator palpabri superioris to attach on the superior aspect of the superior tarsus. This collection of muscles is known as the superior tarsal muscle and is innovated by the sympathetic nervous system. This muscle originates from the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, immediately above the optic foramen. It attaches to the upper eyelid, which is a thick plate of connective tissue. The action of this muscle, as the name suggests, is to elevate the upper eyelid. It is innervated by the oculomotor nerve, cranial nerve number 3. The superior tarsal muscle, located within the levator palpabri superioris, is innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. Let's take a look now at the muscles involved in the eye movement. There are 6 muscles involved in the control of the eyeball itself. They can be divided into 2 groups. You've got the 4 recti muscles, and the 2 oblique muscles. Let's start first with the recti muscles. There are 4 recti muscles. The superior rectus, inferior rectus, medial rectus and lateral rectus. These muscles characteristically originate from the common tendinous ring, also known as the annulus of Zinn. This is a ring of fibrous tissue, which surrounds the optic canal at the back of the orbit. From their origin, the muscles pass anteriorly to attach to the sclera of the eyeball. The name recti is derived from the Latin word, which means straight. This represents the fact that the recti muscles have a direct path from origin to attachment. This is in contrast with the oblique eye muscles, which have an angular approach to the eyeball. The superior rectus muscle originates from the superior part of the common tendinous ring and attaches to the superior and anterior aspect of the sclera. The main action of this muscle is elevation, and it also contributes to adduction and medial rotation of the eyeball. It is innervated by the third cranial nerve, the oculomotor nerve. The inferior rectus muscle originates from the inferior part of the common tendinous ring, and it inserts onto the inferior and anterior aspect of the sclera. Its main movement is depression, but it also contributes to adduction and lateral rotation of the eyeball. It is innervated by the oculomotor nerve, cranial nerve 3. The medial rectus muscle originates from the medial part of the common tendinous ring, and inserts onto the anterior medial aspect of the sclera. It acts to adduct the eyeball. This muscle is also innervated by the oculomotor nerve, cranial nerve number 3. The lateral rectus muscle originates from the lateral part of the common tendinous ring, and attaches to the anterolateral aspect of the sclera. As you may guess by the insertion point of this muscle, it acts to abduct the eyeball. This muscle is innervated by the abducens nerve, cranial nerve 6. You can see now why the abducens nerve gets its name, because it is responsible for the abduction of the eyeball via innervation of the lateral rectus muscle. Let's take a look now at the oblique muscles. There are two oblique muscles, the superior and inferior obliques. Unlike the recti group of muscles, they do not originate from the common tendinous ring. From their origin, the oblique muscles take an angular approach to the eyeball, in contrast to the straight approach of the recti muscles. They attach to the posterior surface of the sclera. The superior oblique originates from the body of the sphenoid bone. Its tendon passes through a fibrocartilaginous pulley known as the trochlea, which is attached to the trochlea fovea of the frontal bone. From here, the superior oblique muscle then attaches to the sclera of the eye, posterior to the superior rectus muscle. It acts to depress, abduct and medially rotate the eyeball. This muscle is innervated by the trochlea nerve, cranial nerve number 4. The inferior oblique muscle originates from the medial side of the orbital floor. It attaches to the sclera of the eye, posterior to the lateral rectus muscle. Its action is to elevate, abduct and laterally rotate the eyeball. And it's innervated by the third cranial nerve, the oculomotor nerve. So all the extraocular muscles are innervated by the oculomotor nerve, except for the lateral rectus and the superior oblique, which are innervated by the abducens nerve and the trochlea nerve respectively. Its important to note that whilst you can describe the actions of each muscle in terms of its specific movements of the eyeball, that all the extraocular muscles work in conjunction with one another to produce coordinated movement of the eyeball. For instance, in the vertical plane, to produce elevation and depression, the superior rectus muscle and the inferior oblique muscles work together in a coordinated manner to produce elevation of the eyeball. When the eyeball is in the neutral position looking straight ahead, both these muscles will contract to produce elevation. When the eye is held in an abducted position, the superior rectus muscle is mainly responsible for elevation, whereas in the adducted position, the inferior oblique is mainly responsible for elevation, and vice versa with regard to depression of the eyeball and coordination of the inferior rectus muscle and the superior oblique. That is, in the abducted position, the superior and inferior rectus muscles are responsible for elevation and depression. Also, as you can see, there are several muscles which produce the same movement. The main abductor of the eyeball is the lateral rectus muscle, but this movement will also be assisted by the superior and inferior oblique muscles. So that's the anatomy of the extraocular muscles. If you have found this video useful, please click on the like button below and subscribe to Anatomy Zone for more tutorials. Thank you for watching. The 3D models used in this tutorial were powered by the excellent and free Anatomy Learning App. Check it out for yourself.

=== FILE: Eyeball Anatomy [7lBtlGvS1Gc].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone and in this tutorial we're going to go through the anatomy of the eyeball. And in this tutorial we're going to go through the anatomy of the eyeball. This video is a collaboration between AnatomyZone and TeachMeAnatomy.info. Check out the links in the video description below for some useful articles to accompany this video tutorial. The eyeball is a bilateral and spherical organ which houses the structures responsible for vision. It lies in a bony cavity within the facial skeleton, known as the bony orbit. Take a look at my previous tutorial to learn about the anatomical features of the bony orbit. Anatomically the eyeball can be divided into three parts. The fibrous, vascular and inner layers. These layers have different structures and functions. Let's start with the outermost layer, the fibrous layer. I've switched over now to a view of the isolated eyeball, with some layers dissected away. The fibrous layer of the eye is the outermost layer. It consists of the sclera and the cornea, which are directly continuous with each other. You can see the shape and continuity of the cornea with the sclera from this lateral view. Their main functions are to provide shape to the eye and support the deeper structures. The sclera comprises the majority of the fibrous layer, approximately 85%, and provides attachment to the extraocular muscles. The extraocular muscles are responsible for the movement of the eye. Check out my previous tutorial for more information on these muscles. In addition, several vessels and nerves penetrate through the sclera, including the optic nerve, which you can see here posteriorly. The sclera is visible as the white part of the eye. The cornea is continuous anteriorly with the sclera, and is transparent and positioned centrally at the front of the eye. Light entering the eye is refracted by the cornea. The vascular layer of the eye lies underneath the fibrous layer. It consists of three continuous parts, the choroid, the ciliary body, and the iris. The choroid is a layer of connective tissue and blood vessels. It provides nourishment to the outer layers of the retina. I've switched over to an anterior view showing the whole eyeball to show you the ciliary body, which I've highlighted in green. You can see how it encircles the eyeball. The ciliary body itself is comprised of two parts, the ciliary muscle and ciliary processes. I've sliced the eyeball in half, and we've rotated around to look at the eyeball in section. Let's just review the structures that we have already discussed so that you are oriented to this view. You can see the outer fibrous sclera in continuity with the cornea anteriorly. You can also see the inner vascular choroid and the ciliary body here in green. The ciliary muscle consists of a collection of smooth muscle fibres arranged in three orientations, longitudinal, circular, and radial. When these muscles contract, the diameter of the circular ciliary body reduces in size. Projecting from the surface of the ciliary body are the ciliary processes. These attach the lens to the ciliary body via these fibres which you can see here, known as zonular fibres. Collectively, the zonular fibres form the suspensory ligament of the lens. The ciliary body therefore controls the shape of the lens. As I mentioned before, when the ciliary muscle contracts, the circular ciliary body reduces in size. When this happens, the zonular fibres therefore slacken, reducing the tension applied to the outside of the lens, allowing the lens to return to a more rounded shape. This process is known as accommodation and adjusts the lens for near vision. Conversely, when the ciliary body is relaxed, the diameter of the ciliary body is greater, which means the zonular fibres are held tight, pulling the lens flat. This optimises the lens for long distance vision. In addition to adjusting the lens shape, the ciliary body also contributes to the formation of aqueous humour. The final structure of the vascular layer is the iris. This is a circular structure with an aperture in the centre, called the pupil. The iris is the component of the eye which gives you your eye colour. It has two arrangements of fibres which control the size of the pupil, circular fibres and radial fibres. The circular fibres make up the sphincter pupilli muscle, which is innervated by the parasympathetic nervous system. Activation of this system causes constriction of the pupil, which thereby limits the amount of light that can enter the eye. The radial fibres on the other hand make up the dilator pupilli muscle, which are innervated by the sympathetic nervous system and cause dilatation of the pupil, thereby increasing the amount of light that can enter the eye. I've highlighted the iris in green and sliced the eyeball in half. Let's rotate around to view the eyeball in section and view the relationship of the iris to the other structures we have covered so far. The inner layer of the eye consists of the retina, the light detecting part of the eye. The retina itself is comprised of two cellular layers, the neural layer and the pigmented layer. The neural layer consists of photoreceptors, the light detecting cells of the retina. It is located posteriorly and laterally in the eye. The pigmented layer lies underneath the neural layer and is attached to the choroid layer. It acts to support the neural layer and continues around the whole inner surface of the eye. Anteriorly, the pigmented layer continues but the neural layer does not. This part is known as the non-visual retina. Posteriorly and laterally, both layers of the retina are present. This is the optic part of the retina. The optic part of the retina can be viewed during ophthalmoscopy or fundoscopy. The centre of the retina is marked by an area known as the macula lutea. It is yellowish in colour and highly pigmented. The macula contains a depression called the fovea centralis which has a high concentration of cones which are the light sensitive receptor cells which function best in brightly lit conditions. and are responsible for high acuity colour vision. The area that the optic nerve enters the retina is known as the optic disc. It contains no light detecting cells and is therefore referred to as the blind spot of the retina. The central retinal artery enters at this point and its branches are visible at this point when viewed during fondoscopy. There are a few remaining structures to discuss to cover the basic gross anatomy of the eyeball. There are two fluid filled areas in the eye known as the anterior and posterior chambers. The anterior chamber is located between the cornea and the iris. The posterior chamber is a small chamber located behind the iris and anterior to the lens and suspensory ligaments. The two chambers are continuous with one another via the pupillary opening. The chambers are filled with aqueous humour which is a clear plasma-like fluid that nourishes and protects the eye. The aqueous humour is secreted first into the posterior chamber and flows into the anterior chamber via the pupil and is then absorbed into the canal of Schlem, also known as the scleral venous sinus. This channel encircles the eye, lying at the point between the cornea and the iris. You can see this highlighted in blue on this model. If the drainage of aqueous humour is obstructed, the intraocular pressure will rise, a condition known as glaucoma. The lens separates these two chambers from the vitreous chamber which fills the eyeball with a transparent, gel-like substance known as vitreous humour or vitreous body, extending from behind the lens to the retina posteriorly. So that's an overview of the gross anatomy of the eyeball. In the next tutorial, we'll take a look at the vascular supply. If you have enjoyed this video, please click the like button below and subscribe for more video tutorials. Thank you for watching. The 3D models used in this tutorial were powered by the excellent and free anatomy learning app. Check it out for yourself.

=== FILE: Eyeball ｜ Blood Supply [_aGL9dU-Lnk].txt ===

 Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact Contact distal to the cavernous sinus. The ophthalmic artery gives rise to many branches which supply different components of the eye. From this view, you can see the ophthalmic artery arising from the internal carotid. Let's take a look at the main branches which supply the eyeball. You can see here the short posterior ciliary arteries highlighted in pink color that pass around the optic nerve and pierce the sclera posteriorly to enter the choroid layer. I've just made the sclera transparent for a better visualization. The long posterior ciliary arteries run a longer course medially and laterally around the sides of the optic nerve and pass to the anterior aspect of the eyeball, piercing the choroid layer. Here, you also have the anterior ciliary arteries and within the choroid layer, they anastomose with the long posterior ciliary arteries. The central artery of the retina is the most important branch which supplies the internal surface of the retina. You can see this artery branching off the ophthalmic artery to pierce the sheath surrounding the optic nerve. It then pierces the optic nerve itself to enter the retina at the optic disc. The retinal branches are visible on fundoscopy and you can see from this view an approximation of what these retinal branches would look like. Venous drainage of the eyeball is carried out by the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins. There are four large veins, the vorticose veins, seen here in light blue, which drain the posterior quadrants of the eyeball. You can see these two superiorly located vorticose veins draining the posterior superior quadrants to the superior ophthalmic vein. Likewise, inferiorly, these two vorticose veins draining the posterior inferior quadrants to the inferior ophthalmic veins. The ophthalmic veins then drain into the cavernous sinus, which you can see here situated within the sphenoid bone, just lateral to the cella tersica. In addition to these veins, there is also a central retinal vein, which you can see here. This accompanies the central retinal artery. So that's a brief look at the vascular supply of the eyeball. If you have found this video useful, click like below and subscribe for more videos on anatomy. Thank you for watching. The 3D models used in this tutorial were powered by the excellent and free anatomy learning app. Check it out for yourself.

=== FILE: Facial Skeleton ｜ Skull Anatomy [uMhQW1F78aA].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the anatomy of the viscerocranium. We have previously taken a look at the anatomy of the calvaria, and in this tutorial we'll be learning about the bones which make up the viscerocranium, also known as the facial skeleton. Embryologically, the viscerocranium is mainly developed in the mesenchyme of the embryonic pharyngeal arches. The bones which form the viscerocranium can be the viscerocranium can be the viscerocranium, which consist of bones which surround the viscerocranium, so around the nose, the eyes, and the mouth. The facial skeleton is comprised of several bones. The nasal bones, the maxillae, the inferior nasal conchi, the voma, the lacrimal bones, the zygomatic bones, and the palatine bones. All of these bones are paired apart from the voma. The mandible is generally considered separately from the cranium, and we'll discuss this separately in another tutorial. There is some overlap with the bones of the neurocranium, and some references will include parts of the sphenoid and ethmoid bones within the viscerocranium, as they form part of the structures of the orbits and nasal cavities. We'll cover the anatomy of the orbits and nasal cavities in separate tutorials. Let's now take a look at how these bones are connected, and at some of their key features. Starting from an anterior view of the skull, in the midline we have the nasal bones, which articulate with each other via the internasal suture. This point here is nasion, which is the intersection of the frontal and nasal bones. The articulation with the frontal bone is via the frontonasal suture. Inferior to the nasal bones is the piriform aperture, which is the pear-shaped anterior nasal opening into the cranium. This is bounded by the inferior margin of the nasal bones superiorly, the nasal surfaces of the maxillae on either side, and inferiorly by the anterior nasal spine in the midline, where the maxillae come together. Looking anteriorly through this aperture, and zooming in a little bit, we can see the bony nasal septum, which divides the nasal cavity. I've just removed a few of the outer bones and rotated to an oblique lateral view, and we can see that the nasal septum contains a bony component and a cartilaginous component. The bony component is actually comprised of three bones, the perpendicular plate of ethmoid, the voma, and the maxillary crest, which isn't shown here. Returning to the anterior view, these curved bones are known as the nasal conchi. There are three paired nasal conchi within the nose, but it is the inferior nasal conchi that are considered as part of the facial skeleton. The middle and superior conchi arise from the ethmoid bone, which forms part of the neurocranium. The maxilla forms the upper jaw. The maxillary alveolus contains tooth sockets, which house the maxillary teeth. The two maxillary bones join together in the midline at the intermaxillary suture. The maxilla contains a small foramen, the infraorbital foramen, which transmits the infraorbital nerve and vessels. Fractures of the orbital floor involving the maxilla can easily involve this foramen and compromise these structures. The superior projection of the maxilla is known as the frontal process of the maxilla, and articulates with the frontal bone superiorly at the frontomaxillary suture, and medially with the nasal bones at the nasomaxillary suture. I've rotated to a lateral view, and we can see into the medial wall of the orbit. These small paired bones are the lacrimal bones. Next, we have the zygomatic bones. You can see that laterally, the maxilla articulates with the zygomatic bones on either side at the zygomaticomaxillary sutures. The zygomatic bones form the prominences of the cheekbones that you can see and easily palpate. I've rotated the model around to a lateral view, and if I zoom in here, you can see this small foramen known as the zygomaticofacial foramen, which transmits the zygomaticofacial nerve and vessels. This nerve is a small branch of the zygomatic nerve, which itself comes from the maxillary nerve, the second branch of the trigeminal, cranial nerve number 5. Superiorly, the zygomatic bone articulates with the frontal bone via the frontal process of the zygomatic bone at the frontozygomatic suture. Posteriorly, it articulates with the temporal bone via the temporal process of the zygomatic bone at the zygomaticotemporal suture. These two components, the zygomatic process of the temporal bone and the temporal process of the zygomatic bone, form the zygomatic arch. I've just rotated to an inferior view and removed the mandible looking at the skull base, and you can really appreciate the morphology of this arch. It is susceptible to injury via direct blows, particularly due to its weak point at the suture. Injury to the zygomatic arch forms one aspect of a zygomaticomaxillary complex fracture, also known as a tripod fracture, which additionally includes fractures of the lateral orbital rim and the inferior orbital rim. You can see that within the posterior aspect of the orbit, the zygomatic bones articulate with the sphenoid bone at the sphenozygomatic suture. Let's rotate to an inferior view and take a look at the last few components of the facial skeleton. I've removed the mandible for better visualisation, and we're looking at the inferior aspect of the maxilla. We can see the hard palate, which is formed of the palatine processes of the maxillae anteriorly, and the horizontal plates of the palatine bone posteriorly. A small depression in the midline anteriorly is known as the incisive foramen, where the incisive canals open. The posterior nasal spine is formed by the posterior projection of the hard palate. I've removed the bones of the neurocranium, and if we look posteriorly at the nasal cavity, just posterior and superior to the palatine bones, we have the final bone, the unpaired voma. We already saw this from the anterior view through the piriform aperture. The voma separates the posterior nasal apertures, known as the coanae, which is where the nasal cavity opens into the nasopharynx. So that's the anatomy of the facial skeleton. If you have found this video helpful, please hit the like button, and if you would like to support our ongoing free anatomy video project, please head over to our Patreon page and check out the options. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Foramina of the Skull ｜ Skull Anatomy [BW19nGC4g_U].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the major internal for the skull and the different structures that pass through. To support us in creating more content please hit the like button below, subscribe to our channel for updates and check out our Patreon page. Let's rotate to a superior view and remove some of the calvarial bones to take a look at the cranial floor. We'll start from the anterior cranial fossa and work posteriorly, looking at the foramen of the foramen of the foramen of the foramen of the foramen. We'll be looking at the foramen of the foramen of the skull base and the structures that pass through these. Just as a note, foramen is plural for for foramen, which is an opening which allows the structure to pass from one part of the body to another. The main foramen that you need to know about within the anterior cranial fossa are the cribriform foramen in the cribriform plate of the ethymoid bone. This bone contains multiple tiny little foramen which transmits the axons from the olfactory epithelium of the nose via the nose via the olfactory nerves to the olfactory bulb. Returning to the superior view, the other foramen in the anterior cranial fossa are the foramen cecum and the anterior and posterior ethymoidal foramen. The foramen cecum is seen at the base of the frontal crest where it articulates with the ethymoid bone and it transmits the nasal emissary veins connecting the nasal cavity to the superior sagittal sinus. The anterior and posterior ethymoidal foramen are small foramen which lie either side of the olfactory groove which transmit the anterior and posterior ethymoidal nerves and vessels. I've just centred the model and moving posteriorly into the middle cranial fossa, these two openings we see here within the sphenoid bone between the lesser wings and the body are the optic canals. The optic canal transmits the optic nerve, cranial nerve number 2 and the ophthalmic artery which is a branch of the internal carotid artery. I've just switched to an anterior view of the skull to show you how the optic canal opens up into the orbital apex to transmit these structures. Just lateral to the optic canal you can see a large opening, a fissure known as the superior orbital fissure. Let's return to our intracranial view and take a look at this internally. We can see our optic canals again where we left off and if I just tilt the model so that we can look underneath the shelf formed by the lesser wing of the sphenoid, we can see the superior orbital fissure. This fissure lies between the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid and opens into the orbit as we just saw from the anterior view of the skull. The superior orbital fissure transmits the remaining cranial nerves that are associated with the eye. So we saw that the optic nerve passed into the optic canals. So the remaining cranial nerves to do with the eye are the oculomotor, trochlea, abducens and the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. Specifically, the lacrimal, frontal and nasociliary branches. In addition, the ophthalmic veins and sympathetic fibres from the cavernous plexus pass through, but this isn't shown on this model. Returning now to the superior view, there are a few more foramenia to know about within the sphenoid bone. Just posterior lateral to the superior orbital fissure is the foramen rotundum, which as the name suggests, is a round opening. As I rotate to an oblique view, you can see the relationship to the superior orbital fissure. It takes a horizontal course opening into the pterygopalatine fossa, which is a small but complex space deep within the face, which serves as an important junction of neurovascular structures. I'll do a separate tutorial on this specific topic as there's a lot to talk about here. Returning to a lateral view, we can see that the maxillary nerve, the second branch of the trigeminal, passes through this opening. Coming posterior lateral again, we come to the foramen ovale, which is a large foramen, and as the name suggests, this is an oval-shaped opening. This foramen opens inferiorly into the infratemporal fossa and transmits the mandibular nerve and the accessory meningeal branch of the maxillary artery. The key structure to remember is the mandibular nerve, which is the third branch of the trigeminal, cranial nerve number 5. Just posterior lateral to the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum. This also connects the middle cranial fossa to the infratemporal fossa. It transmits the middle meningeal artery and vein, and the meningeal branch of the mandibular nerve, which we just saw. The key structure to remember here is the middle meningeal artery, which is a branch of the maxillary artery, which itself arises as one of the two terminal branches from the external carotid artery. The last two openings in the middle cranial fossa to mention are the carotid canal and the foramen lacerum. I've just switched to an inferior view, looking at the external surface of the skull base. You can see how the internal carotid artery enters the temporal bone and passes into the carotid canal, which opens up internally, just posterior medial to the foramen ovale, just next to the foramen lacerum. The foramen lacerum is this jagged opening, which gets its name due to its appearance from the Latin lacerum, which means lacerated. It lies adjacent to the hypophysial fossa, and is actually closed off and filled by a plug of cartilage after birth. There are some small meningeal arterial branches and small veins that pass through the cartilage, but the key relationship is to that of the internal carotid artery, which passes along the superior aspect of the cartilage to enter the cavernous sinus. The final thing to mention within the middle cranial fossa are the grooves for the greater and lesser petrosal nerves, which aren't really foramen, but I'll mention them here for reference. Coming to the posterior cranial fossa now, the first foramen to mention is the internal auditory, or acoustic, meatus. Arising from the cerebellopontine angle, the facial nerve, cranial nerve 7, and the vestibulococular nerve, cranial nerve 8, pass into this bony canal through its opening, which is known as the porus acousticus internus. In addition, the labyrinthine artery, a branch of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery, may also enter this opening. I've returned again to our superior view, and we'll work our way inferiorly within the posterior cranial fossa to find the jugular foramen, which is a large opening through which several structures pass. It can be thought of in three sections, anterior, middle, and posterior sections. Three cranial nerves pass through the middle section. The glossopharyngeal nerve, cranial nerve 9, the vagus nerve, cranial nerve 10, and the cranial part of the accessory nerve, cranial nerve 11. The inferior petrosal sinus passes into the anterior part of the jugular foramen, and the sigmoid sinus passes into the posterior compartment to form the internal jugular vein. We'll take a look at the anatomy of the dural venous sinuses in due course. In addition, there are meningeal branches of the pharyngeal and occipital arteries which pass through the posterior part of the jugular foramen. Next, we have the hypoglossal canal, through which the 12th cranial nerve, the hypoglossal nerve, passes. Finally, we come to the largest foramen of the skull, formed by the occipital bone, the foramen magnum. The main structures that pass through include the medulla oblongata, the vertebral arteries, the spinal root of the accessory nerve, and the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, which are not shown here. So that completes this tutorial on the major internal foramen of the skull. If you found this video helpful, please hit the like button, subscribe to the channel, and check out our Patreon page. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Infraspinatus ｜ Muscle Anatomy [SLJYGo60IbI].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jack at Anatomy zone and in this tutorial I'm going to take you through the anatomy of the infraspinatus muscle. The infraspinatus is located on the posterior aspect of the scapula and it forms one of the four rotator cuff muscles. And those rotator cuff muscles are all found deep to the more powerful superficial shoulder muscles on the scapula and the upper humerus. The infraspinatus originates on the infraspinatus. The infraspinatus originates in the infraspinatus fossa and that's located on the posterior aspect of the scapula inferior to this which is the spine of the scapula. From its origin the infraspinatus then traverses the lateral border of the scapula and moves around the posterior aspect of the proximal humerus to insert on the greater tubercle, which is on the lateral aspect of the lateral humerus. There are three facets on the greater tubercle and the infraspinatus and the infraspinatus attaches to the middle facet with the supraspinatus attaching to the superior facet and the teres minor inserting on the inferior facet and this is remembered with the acronym SIT. In terms of its action, in isolation the infraspinatus muscle creates lateral rotation of our arm at the shoulder. However, in real terms this muscle works with the other rotator cuff muscles to produce dynamic stability at the shoulder joint, so it means our shoulder remains stable whilst we're moving our arm. The infraspinatus gets its nerve supply from the suprascapular nerve. So this nerve arises from the upper or superior trunk of the brachial plexus and that's typically formed from the ventral rami of the 5th and 6th cervical vertebrae. The suprascapular nerve then from its origin runs underneath the trapezius muscle to reach the suprascapular notch. After the suprascapular notch it then gives off two branches, the superior branch which goes to the supraspinatus muscle whilst the second branch runs inferiorly to innervate the infraspinatus. The infraspinatus receives its blood supply from two arteries, the suprascapular artery and the circumflex scapular artery. The suprascapular artery begins from the thirocervical trunk. So that's being extremely specific and that then comes off the subclavian artery. So the suprascapular artery comes from the subclavian artery but if you want to be very specific it actually is the first branch of the thirocervical trunk. The suprascapular artery from its origin then runs laterally and parallel with the clavicle and it descends onto the suprascapular notch to then move down to the infraspinus fossa where it supplies the infraspinatus muscle. The second artery is the circumflex scapular artery. So the circumflex scapular artery originates as the first branch from the subscapular artery. And that subscapular artery comes from the large axillary artery. The circumflex scapular artery from its origin then runs down the lateral border of the scapula and as it runs to the posterior scapula it actually anastomoses with the suprascapular artery and those two arteries are the ones that are supplying the infraspinatus muscle. So that's the anatomy of the infraspinatus muscle. I hope you found this tutorial useful and if you have please click the like button and don't forget to subscribe and we'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Latissimus Dorsi ｜ Muscle Anatomy [oDhv9EJ9gf8].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the latissimus dorsi. The latissimus dorsi is a large fan-shaped muscle on the back and is one of the superficial extrinsic back muscles. The other superficial extrinsic back muscles are the trapezius, levator scapulae, rhomboid major, and rhomboid minor, and rhomboid minor. The name latissimus dorsi, and rhomboid minor. The name latissimus dorsi comes from the latin, latissimus meaning the broadest, and dorsi referring to the back, so the largest muscle of the back, so the largest muscle of the back. It is in fact one of the largest muscles in the body in surface area, and as you can see, it stretches across a large part of the back, passing from the spine in the midline, to act directly on the glenohumeral joint, and indirectly on the pectoral girdle. originates on the spinous processes of the lower thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, from levels T7 to L5, as well as the sacrum via the thoracolumbar fascia, the iliac crest, the inferior angle of the scapula, and the inferior 3 to 4 ribs. There is a degree of anatomical variation with these origins, and the muscle may take origin from as little as 4, or as many as 8 thoracic vertebral spinous processes, and similarly, the number of costal attachments are varied. In addition, the latissimus dorsi may or may not attach to the iliac crest. The muscle fibres of the latissimus dorsi converge superolaterally towards the axilla, winding around the anterior aspect of the teres major muscle, before inserting via a flat tendon onto the anterior aspect of the proximal humerus on the floor of the intertubercular sulcus. This sulcus is so named, as it lies between the greater and lesser tubercles of the humerus. Just returning to the posterior view, as you can see here, just before inserting, the muscle fibres twist, which means that the superior fibres at the midline of the muscle insert on the lowest part of the sulcus, and the lower fibres at the midline insert higher on the sulcus. I've just removed the latissimus dorsi, and you can see that the location of the insertion on the floor of the intertubercular sulcus lies between the insertion of the pectoralis major and the teres major muscle. This relationship can be remembered by the mnemonic, the lady between two majors, lady referring to the latissimus, and majors referring to the pectoralis and teres major muscles. In terms of innovation, it's innovated by the thurasodorsal nerve, coming off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus and deriving its fibres from the C6 to C8 spinal nerve roots. It's interesting to note that while the latissimus dorsi is a posteriorly located structure, its nerve fibres arise from the ventral rami of the spinal nerves. This muscle is predominantly supplied by the thurasodorsal branch of the subscapular artery, which is the largest branch of the axillary artery arising from its third part. In terms of its function, because the latissimus dorsi has attachments on both the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton, it produces movements both of the trunk and of the upper limb. The main functions of the latissimus are extension, adduction, and medial rotation of the humerus. In terms of adduction and medial rotation, the latissimus dorsi acts with the teres major and pectoralis major to produce this movement. For extension, the latissimus dorsi works with the sternal head of the pectoralis major, as well as the teres major. An important functional movement is to bring the body towards the arms when the upper extremities are fixed overhead, such as in climbing, or in terms of exercise, it's important for movements like chin-ups. In addition, the latissimus dorsi can serve as an accessory muscle of respiration and has been found to be active during deep inspiration and also with forceful exhalation, such as when sneezing or coughing. So that's the anatomy of the latissimus dorsi muscle. If you've found this video helpful, please hit the like button, and if you'd like to support our ongoing free anatomy video project, please head over to our Patreon page and check out the options. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Mandible ｜ Skull Anatomy [_lHosB-c_fQ].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this video we're going to take a look at the key features of the mandible. The mandible is the lower jaw bone and is the largest and strongest bone of the face. The term mandible is derived from the Latin mandere which means to chew. The mandible articulates with the calvaria at the temporomandibular joint. The mandible consists of a central body and a ramus on either side. The ram which is the ram which is the ram which is the ram which is ram which is ram which is ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram which ram to demonstrate the alveolar process of the mandible, which extends superiorly from the mandibular body and houses the teeth. The teeth are contained within a specialised type of fibrous joint known as a gomphosis, which is a joint formed between the root of the tooth and the socket formed in the mandible or maxilla. I've just switched to a view of the internal surface of the mandible, and will review a few features here. The mental spines are seen either side of the symphysis in the midline. The superior mental spines provide the attachment for the genioglossus muscle. The inferior mental spines provide the attachment for the geniohyroid muscle. I've just zoomed in and rotated the model, and you can see this ridge on the internal surface, which extends posteriorly from the symphysis in the midline. This is the myelohyroid line, and gives origin to the myelohyroid muscle. Returning to the external surface of the mandible, let's take a look at the ramus. The ramus is the large, flat, lateral aspect of the mandible. The external, flat surface provides the origin for the powerful masseter muscle. The internal surface of the ramus provides the insertion site for the medial pterygoid muscle. There are two bony processes arising from the mandibular ramus, the coronoid process, the coronoid process, and the condyloid process. The coronoid process is a thin, flat eminence arising anteriorly and provides attachment for the temporalis muscle. The condyloid process is thicker and consists itself of the mandibular condyle and the mandibular neck. The mandibular condyle articulates with the temporal bone at the temporomandibular joint. Separating these two processes is the mandibular notch, a concave, semilunar depression which is traversed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. The lateral pterygoid muscle attaches to the neck of the condyloid process. The final thing to review are the foramen. There are two major foramen within the mandible, the mandibular foramen and the mental foramen. The mandibular foramen lies above the angle of the mandible on either side of the internal surface of the mandibular ramus. The inferior alveolar nerve, a branch of the mandibular nerve of the trigeminal, and the inferior alveolar artery enter the mandibular foramen and run anteriorly within the mandibular canal, exiting via the mental foramen. At the point of exit via the mental foramen, the nerve then becomes known as the mental nerve, providing sensory innervation to the lower lip and chin. So that concludes this quick tutorial on the mandible. If you found it useful, give us a thumbs up and subscribe to our channel. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Median Nerve ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [LSls4MWv3MQ].txt ===

 check out my video tutorials on this subject. Just to briefly recap, the brachial plexus originates from spinal nerve roots C5 to T1 and it consists of roots, trunks, divisions and cords. There are five main peripheral nerves which arise from the brachial plexus as terminal branches and supply the upper limb. Arising from the lateral cord, you have the musculocutaneous nerve. From the posterior cord, you get the axillary nerve and the radial nerve. From the medial cord, you get the ulnar nerve. And where the medial cord joins the lateral cord, you get the median nerve. As you can see from this schematic, if you trace the median nerve backwards, you will see that it contains nerve fibers from all of the five nerve roots. So the median nerve contains fibers from nerve roots C5 to T1. The median nerve has both motor and sensory function. In terms of motor function, it innervates the flexor muscles in the anterior compartment of the forearm, except for the flexor carpi ulnaris and the medial half or ulnar half of the flexor digitorum profundus. These two muscles are innervated by the ulnar nerve. Within the hand, the median nerve supplies innervation to the thenar muscles and the lateral two lumbricals. In terms of the sensory innervation, the median nerve gives rise to a palmar cutaneous branch, which innervates the lateral part of the palm. In this diagram here on the left, you can see this patch of skin on the palmar surface laterally, which is innervated by the palmar cutaneous branch. And you can also see that there are three and a half fingers also shaded in the same green color, which are supplied by the digital branches of the median nerve. I've switched over now to a 3D view. What we're looking at here is the median nerve originating from the brachial plexus, from the medial and lateral cords. It's not shown very well in this model here, but initially the median nerve sits lateral to the brachial artery, and as it descends further proximally, it crosses over to become more medial and sits medial to the brachial artery. I've zoomed out a little bit here and you can see the median nerve descending in the medial aspect of the arm alongside the brachial artery. It then enters the elbow at the cubital fossa and passes into the anterior compartment of the forearm. I've just moved the model a little bit more distally, and we can see a closer view of the median nerve entering via the cubital fossa and entering into the anterior compartment of the forearm. Within the forearm, the median nerve travels between the flexor digitorum profundus muscle and the flexor digitorum superficialis muscle. There are two major branches which come off the median nerve in the forearm. Approximately, you've got the anterior interosseous nerve and distally, you've got the parma cutaneous nerve. The anterior interosseous nerve supplies the deep flexor muscles of the anterior compartment of the arm. These muscles include the flexor polycus longus, the pronator quadratus, and the lateral half of the flexor digitorum profundus muscle. The medial half, or ulna half of this muscle, is innervated by the ulna nerve. The median nerve directly innervates the muscles in the superficial and intermediate layers. In the superficial layer, it provides innervation to the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, and the palmaris longus. The flexor carpi ulnaris muscle is innervated by the ulna nerve. So essentially, what you need to know is that the median nerve supplies all the muscles of the anterior compartment of the forearm, except the medial half of the flexor digitorum profundus and the flexor carpi ulnaris, which are innervated by the ulna nerve. Now moving to a more distal view of the hand and the wrist, the second nerve which arises in the forearm from the median nerve is the parma cutaneous nerve. You can see this here highlighted in green, and it passes over the flexor retinaculum. This nerve innervates the skin of the lateral palm. I've just made the flexor retinaculum transparent, and you can see the median nerve passing underneath the flexor retinaculum within the carpal tunnel. Within the carpal tunnel, the median nerve can get compressed, causing carpal tunnel syndrome. This is the most common mononeuropathy, and can be caused by thickened ligaments and tendon sheaths. There are several medical causes for carpal tunnel syndrome, but it's most commonly idiopathic. At its most extreme, when untreated, carpal tunnel syndrome can cause weakness and atrophy of the thenar muscles. In addition, you get numbness, tingling and sensory changes in the distribution of the median nerve, affecting the lateral three and a half digits. Because the parma cutaneous branch of the median nerve passes over the flexor retinaculum, you get sparing of the sensation to the lateral aspect of the palm in carpal tunnel syndrome. The median nerve then enters the hand after passing through the carpal tunnel, and divides into a recurrent branch, which you can see highlighted in blue, and it also divides into common palmar digital branches. The recurrent branch, which you can see in light blue here, innervates the thenar muscles. You can see the recurrent branch here supplying the flexor polycus brevis and the abductor polycus brevis. It also passes between these two muscles to supply the opponent's polycus. The palmar digital branches supply the lateral two lumbricals of the hand, which you can see here. The common palmar digital nerves then divide into two to become the proper palmar digital nerves. You can see how the palmar digital nerves supply the lateral three and a half digits. And in terms of the sensory innervation, the palmar digital nerves therefore innervate the palmar surface and fingertips of these lateral three and a half digits. This diagram here just shows the pattern of innervation of the median nerve. This part of the palm, the lateral part of the palm, is innervated by the palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve, and then the lateral three and a half digits on the palmar surface are innervated by the palmar digital nerves, and dorsally the distal fingertips of the lateral three and a half nerves are supplied also. So that's an overview of the anatomy of the median nerve. For more anatomy articles, visit teachmeanatomy.info, and for more videos, check out anatomyzone.com. Thank you for watching. Thank you.

=== FILE: Meninges of the Brain ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [XSMPB7y41E8].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this video we'll be taking a look at the anatomy of the meninges of the brain. Please support us in creating more content by hitting the like button below and subscribing to the channel for updates. The word meninges comes from the ancient Greek, meninx which means membrane. We're looking here at a cross section which shows the skull at the top and the cerebral cortex at the bottom. There are three membranes which encase the brain and the spinal cortex at the bottom. The two membranes which are called the duro-mata, the duro-mata, the arachnoid-mata, and the pyr-mata. In conjunction with the production and circulation of the cerebrospinal fluid, the meninges function to protect the central nervous system. So let's take a look at the different meningeal layers. We're going to take a coronal section through the head and take a look at a diagrammatic representation of the meninges. Just to orientate you to the image, we have a diagrammatic representation of the meninges. Just to orientate you to the image, we have a diagrammatic representation of the meninges. We are trên the genus, we are trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên the genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên genus, trên gen venous sinuses. It's classically described as having two layers, the meningeal layer, which lies next to the brain, and the periosteal layer, which lies next to the cranial bones and which adheres to the surface of the cranium. Between the two layers of the duromata, as we can see here, are the dual venous sinuses, and here as I mentioned we see the superior sagittal sinus. The duromata itself folds in certain places, and these folds compartmentalise different areas of the brain. There are four important folds to know about, which you'll often hear referred to as dural reflections. First is the falc cerebri, which is the largest dural fold. This fold, which you can see here in this diagram, runs in the midline within the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres. It gets its name from its cresenteric sickle-like shape, which you can see in this illustration. Anteriorly, it attaches to the frontal crest and to the crista gali. Posteriorly, it merges into the second important dural reflection, the tentorium cerebelli. You can see here that the superior sagittal sinus is contained within the superior margin of the falc cerebri, and running within its inferior margin is the inferior sagittal sinus. I've switched to another illustration, and here we can see the tentorium cerebelli. You can see how the fibres of the falcs blend into the tentorium cerebelli, which is situated posteriorly. This is the second largest dural fold. The word tentorium is Latin for tent, so this fold separates the occipital lobes from the cerebellum and forms a tent-like structure over the cerebellum. Anteriorly, it attaches to the clinoid processes of the sphenoid, anterolaterally to the petrous temporal bone, and posteriorly it has attachments to the internal parts of the occipital and parietal bones. This dural fold is important and divides the brain into supra-tentorial and infra-tentorial compartments. I've just switched to a superior view looking down at the tentorium, and you can see that the anterior free edge has this concave notch. This is known as the tentorial notch, or tentorial incisor, and allows the midbrain to pass through. Third, we have the falcs cerebelli, and as the name suggests, and having just looked at the falcs cerebrus, you might guess that this dural reflection partially separates the cerebellar hemispheres. The fourth and smallest fold to mention is the diaphragma celli. This fold covers the cella tersica and the pituitary gland. There is a small opening in it, which allows the pituitary stalk and hypophysial vessels to pass through. The next meningeal layer is the arachnoid marta, which you can see here coloured in red. Between the dura mater and the arachnoid marta is a potential space, the subdural space which contains a thin film of lymphatic fluid. The arachnoid marta is very closely applied to the dura mater in normality, but the subdural space can be opened with trauma or other pathological processes. In the context of trauma, blood can get in between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater, separating the two membranes. This is known as a subdural hemorrhage or hematoma. The arachnoid mater is the middle meningeal layer and gets its name from its spiderweb-like appearance. You can see here that it has thin filaments known as arachnoid trabeculations, which traverse the subarachnoid space and blend with the peer mater like a spiderweb. The arachnoid layer is a thin transparent membrane which cushions the CNS. It doesn't follow the gyral and sulcal contours of the brain and provides a loose-fitting covering. In places, there are aggregations of small arachnoid villae which herniate through the dura mater into the dural venous sinuses. These are known as arachnoid granulations and allow CSF to enter back into the circulation. The subarachnoid space, unlike the subdural space which is only a potential space, is a normal anatomical space between the arachnoid and peer mater that is filled with CSF. There are several anatomical spaces which are formed at different points around the brain where these subarachnoid spaces are quite large and filled with lots of CSF. These are known as cisterns. The patency of these subarachnoid cisterns is important for proper CSF circulation. Various pathological processes within the brain can cause effacement of these cisterns and impair CSF circulation, leading to hydrocephalus. I won't go into detail about these different cisterns, but some of the key ones to know about are the cisterna magna, the supracella and the various perimesin catholic cisterns. The final layer is the pyrmata. Pyrmata is Latin for tender mother. This is a fine, thin membrane which adheres to the surface of the brain and does follow the gyral and sulcal contours. This is a highly vascular membrane with many vessels piercing it to supply the brain. As a point of terminology, you may hear these two inner layers, the arachnoid mata and the pyrmata, referred to as leptomeninges, which is Greek for thin membranes. The converse term for the dura mater is pachymeninges. So that completes this tutorial on the meninges of the brain. If you found this video helpful, please hit the like button, subscribe to the channel and check out our Patreon page. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Middle Cranial Fossa ｜ Skull Anatomy [kAOrHWa8qNc].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the middle cranial fossa. This tutorial follows on from the first tutorial on the anterior cranial fossa. So I've removed the parietal bones and we are now looking at a superior view of the skull base. The middle cranial fossa essentially consists of the sphenoid and the temporal bones. In terms of its boundaries, the anterior anterior border in the midline is formed of the anterior border in the midline is formed by the anterior edge of the chiasmatic sulcus, which is this groove stretching between the optic canals. Anterolaterally, the middle cranial fossa is separated from the anterior cranial fossa by the posterior borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid. I've just rotated the model so that you can see how the lesser wing hangs over and covers parts of the anterior and lateral parts of the sphenoid. u Turkish saddle, which is the name given due to its distinct morphology. The central deep area is called the hypophysial fossa, which contains the pituitary gland. The anterior wall of the cellotersica is called the tuberculum cellae. Arising from the corners of this anterior wall are these small little bumps, the middle clinoid processes. We saw in the last tutorial that the anterior clinoid process is formed from the medial aspect of the lesser wing of the sphenoid and is part of the anterior cranial fossa. The posterior clinoid processes are the rounded projections at the top of the posterior wall of the cellotersica, which is known as the dorsum cellae. You can appreciate its structure nicely from this lateral view. Lateral to the body of the sphenoid are the greater wings, which contain four openings known as foramenia and fissures, which transmit various different structures from the skull base into the face. Just as a point regarding some of the anatomical terminology, a foramen is any opening which allows different structures to pass to another compartment or part of the body, things like nerves, arteries and veins. Foramen, or foramena plural, are typically rounded or oval discrete openings. A fissure is like a foramen, but it's more of an elongated cleft or groove. A fossa comes from the Latin ditch, and this is a depression or a hollow. Structures don't pass through a fossa, they sit within these fossae. We've seen the hypophysial fossa, which is where the pituitary sits. I will do a separate tutorial on the structures that pass through these openings in the skull base, but for now we will just familiarise ourselves with their location and configuration. Let's start medially and work laterally looking at the different openings. The first opening is hiding underneath the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, and is called the superior orbital fissure. As you can see, it separates the greater wing from the lesser wing. Posterolateral to this is this round opening called the foramen rotundum. Posterolateral again from this is an oval-shaped opening called the foramen ovale. And moving posterolateral again is the foramen spinosum. Just posterolateral to the hypophysial fossa is the foramen lacerum. This structure is actually closed by a cartilaginous plug in life. Structures like the internal carotid artery pass across this structure, but they don't pass through it. Extending laterally and posteriorly from the foramen lacerum is this groove on the superior surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, which is the groove for the greater petrosal nerve, which is a branch of the facial nerve. There is also a shallower groove for the lesser petrosal nerve, just anterior to this, but it's not visualised well on this model. We will learn more about the intricate internal anatomy of the temporal bone in tutorials on the middle and inner ear structures. So that completes the anatomy of the middle cranial fossa. In the next tutorial we'll take a look at the posterior cranial fossa. If you have found this video helpful, please like, subscribe and leave a comment below. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Musculocutaneous Nerve ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [Wru7UCHlbFU].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone and in this tutorial we will be taking a look at the anatomy of the musculocutaneous nerve. This video is a collaboration between Anatomy zone and Teach me anatomy.info. Check out the links in the video description below for some useful articles to accompany this video tutorial. The musculocutaneous nerve is a major peripheral nerve of the muscle cutaneous nerve of the muscle cutaneous nerve is a major peripheral nerve of the muscle cutaneous nerve of the muscle cutaneous nerve. It causes the muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle surface of the forearm. Let's take a look now at the anatomical course of the musculocutaneous nerve. This nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus and therefore contains fibres from spinal roots C5, C6 and C7. After originating from the brachial plexus, the musculocutaneous nerve leaves the axilla and pierces the caracobrachialis muscle near its point of insertion on the humerus. It then passes down the arm anterior to the brachialis muscle but deep to the biceps brachii innervating them both. You can see these branches arising from the main nerve which supply this innervation. On this model you can see here the tendons of the short and long heads of the biceps muscle proximally. The muscle belly itself has been dissected away so that you can see the course of the musculocutaneous nerve. Distally you can see the end of the biceps muscle. I've shifted the view to a distal view now and you can see how the musculocutaneous nerve emerges laterally to the biceps tendon at the elbow. It pierces through the deep fascia to continue into the forearm as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm. This nerve is also known as the lateral anti-brachial cutaneous nerve. This nerve then divides into an anterior branch and a posterior branch which collectively provides sensory innervation to the lateral aspect of the forearm. In terms of motor function the musculocutaneous nerve innervates the muscles in the anterior compartment of the arm. These muscles include the biceps brachii, the brachialis muscle, and the caracobrachialis muscle. These muscles flex the upper arm at the shoulder and the elbow joints. In addition the biceps brachii also perform supination of the forearm. In terms of sensory function this is provided by the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm as we saw before. In this diagram you can see the sensory distribution of the nerve in the brown shading showing innervation of the skin over the lateral aspect of the forearm. So that's a quick overview of the anatomy of the musculocutaneous nerve. For more anatomy articles check out teachmeanatomy.info and for more anatomy videos and flashcards check out anatomyzone.com. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Orbit ｜ Eye Anatomy [HKEA4p5k66U].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone and in this tutorial we will be taking a look at the anatomy of the bony orbit. This video is a collaboration between Anatomy zone and teach me anatomy.info. Check out the links in the video description below for some useful articles to accompany this video tutorial. The bony orbits, or eye sockets, are bilateral and symmetrical cavities in their body. They enclose the head. They enclose the eyeball and its associated structures. The orbit can be thought of as a pyramidal structure, with the apex pointing posteromedially into the optic foramen, and the base situated anteriorly, opening up into the face and formed by the orbital rim. The boundaries of the orbit are formed by seven bones. From this anterior bone, the boundaries of the orbit are formed by seven bones. In this anterior bone, as it is the posterior bone, and the posterior bone. In this anterior bone, you can see the frontal bone in red, the maxilla in purple, the zygomatic bone in light blue, the sphenoid bone posteriorly in yellow, and the ethmoid bone in orange. Looking here at the medial aspect of the orbit, you can see a better view of the lacrimal bone in green, the ethmoid bone in orange, and a small part of the palatine bone in dark blue. Let's take a look at the base of this pyramid and the boundaries of the orbital rim. Starting superiorly, you can see this border formed by the frontal bone. The medial border is formed by the frontal process of the maxilla. The inferior border is formed by the zygomatic process of the maxilla and the zygomatic bone. The lateral border is formed by the frontal process of the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic process of the frontal bone. Now let's take a look at the other components of the bony orbit. The roof, or the superior wall, is formed by the frontal bone and the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The frontal bone separates the orbit from the anterior cranial fossa. I've just switched to a view to demonstrate the sphenoid bone, which can be a confusing bone to understand. From this anterior view, you can see the lesser wing, the greater wing, and the superior orbital fissure. And to illustrate this from within the cranium, I have rotated around to show these structures from a posterior and internal view. The floor, or inferior wall, is formed by the maxilla, the palatine and zygomatic bones. The maxilla separates the orbit from the underlying maxillary sinus. The medial wall is formed by the ethmoid, the maxilla, the lacrimal and sphenoid bones. The ethmoid bone separates the orbit from the ethmoid sinus. The lateral wall is formed by the zygomatic bone and the greater wing of the sphenoid. The apex of the orbit is located at the opening to the optic canal, which is known as the optic foramen. The base, as we have seen, opens out into the face and is bounded by the eyelids. It is also known as the orbital rim. Let's take a quick look now at the contents of the bony orbit. The bony orbit contains the eyeballs and their associated structures. These include the extraocular muscles, the eyelids, and several nerves and blood vessels. The extraocular muscles are responsible for the movement of the eyeball and the superior eyelid. We'll take a look at the extraocular muscles in the next tutorial. In terms of the nerves within the bony orbit, there are several cranial nerves which supply the eye and its structures. These include the optic, the oculomotor, the trochlea, the trigeminal and the abducens nerve. There are also several blood vessels within the bony orbit. The eye receives blood primarily from the ophthalmic artery. This drainage is via the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins. Let's take a look now at the pathways into the orbit. There are three main pathways by which structures can enter and exit the orbit. These include the optic canal, the superior orbital fissure, and the inferior orbital fissure. The optic canal transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. It opens into the middle cranial fossa. The superior orbital fissure lies laterally to the optic canal and transmits several nerves, including the lacrimal, the frontal, the fourth cranial nerve which is the trochlea, the superior and inferior branches of the oculomotor nerve, which is cranial nerve 3, the nasociliary branches of the ophthalmic nerve, which is the first branch of the trigeminal nerve, cranial nerve 5, and it also transmits the abducens nerve, cranial nerve number 6. In addition, it also carries the superior ophthalmic vein. The inferior orbital fissure separates the lateral wall of the orbit from the floor of the orbit. This fissure transmits the zygomatic branch of the maxillary nerve, which is the second branch of the trigeminal nerve, cranial nerve 5, as well as the maxillary nerve itself. In addition, it transmits the inferior ophthalmic vein and also some sympathetic nerves. There are also some other minor openings into the orbital cavity. The nasolacrimal canal, which drains tears from the eye to the nasal cavity, is located on the medial wall of the orbit. Other small openings include the supraorbital foramen and the infraorbital foramen, which transmit small neurovascular structures. The infraorbital groove begins posteriorly at the inferior orbital fissure and passes across the floor of the orbit to connect with the infraorbital canal, which then opens up onto the face via the infraorbital foramen. So that's the anatomy of the bony orbit. For more anatomy articles, check out teachmeanatomy.info, and for more anatomy videos and flashcards, check out anatomyzone.com. If you have found this video useful, click on the like button below and subscribe to Anatomy Zone for more video tutorials. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Ossicles of the Middle Ear ｜ Anatomy Tutorial [IjFLfFcP1uY].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the ossicles of the middle ear. There are three ossicles which bridge the middle ear cleft, attaching laterally to the tympanic membrane, and medially to the oval window of the inner ear, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The malleus derives its name from its hammer shape and it's the first bone in the ossicular chain which attaches to the inner surface of the tympanic membrane, which attaches to the inner surface of the tympanic membrane. The head of the malleus is this bounded part which is the bounded part which lies in the bounded part which lies in the bounded part which lies in the epitympanic recess superiorly and articulates with the incus via its posterior surface. You can see this facet for articulation with the incus on the posterior surface of the malleus on the posterior surface of the malleus head on this lateral view. Just below the head, the malleus narrows to form the neck which lies against the flaccid part of the tympanic membrane. The caudal tympani crosses the medial aspect of the malleus neck. Below the neck of the malleus are the anterior and lateral processes of the malleus The anterior process attaches to the anterior wall of the tympanic cavity and the lateral process attaches to the anterior and posterior malleolar folds of the tympanic membrane. The inferior extension of the malleus below the anterior and lateral processes is known as the handle of the malleus, or the maneuvrium, which attaches to the tympanic membrane along the length of its lateral margin, with its tip at the umber, The incus is the second bone in the ossicular chain, lying between the malleus and the stapes. It's comprised of a body and two limbs. The body articulates with the head of the malleus at the incudo-malleolar joint and sits within the epitympanic recess. Here you can see the articular surface of the incus. The long limb extends inferiorly from the body, running in parallel to the handle of the malleus. Distally, it curves medially to articulate with the stapes at the incudo-stapedial joint via a small ovoid process known as the lenticular process. The short limb extends posteriorly, attaching the incus to the postero-superior wall of the middle ear. The stapes is the smallest of the ossicles and the smallest bone in the human body, and is comprised of a head, a neck, two limbs and a footplate. The head of the stapes is concave and articulates with the long limb of the incus via the lenticular process. Just beneath the head is the neck of the stapes, which is connected to the footplate, or base of the stapes, by the anterior and posterior limbs. The base, or stapes footplate, attaches to the oval window on the medial wall of the middle ear. In this diagram, we're looking face-on at the cochlear promontory here. This is the oval window superiorly where the footplate of the stapes attaches, and the round window is shown inferiorly here. So that's the anatomy of the ossicles of the middle ear. If you've enjoyed this video, give it a like and subscribe to the channel. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Pectoralis Major Muscle Anatomy ｜ AnatomyZone [hfrUcSWD3Z8].txt ===

 Hey, this is a large fan-shaped muscle which is located in the anterior of our thorax, and it forms the bulk of our chest wall, and it forms the most powerful muscles of the upper body. It actually has two distinct muscle heads, the clavicular head, and the of the lateral pe and it isvenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenuevenue From a blood supply perspective, the pectoralis muscle gets its arterial supply from the thoracoacromial artery or trunk. So you can see here the auxiliary artery. That gives off a branch that's called the thoracoacromial artery and from there the pectoral branches are given off which supply the pectoralis major with its arterial blood supply. So that's the anatomy of the pectoralis major muscle. I hope you've enjoyed this tutorial and if you have make sure you give us a like and subscribe to AnatomyZone. The 3D models using this tutorial were powered by the amazing and free anatomy learning app. Go check it out for yourself at AnatomyLearning.com

=== FILE: Popliteal Fossa [-QsTZy2gga8].txt ===

 diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet diet, diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet muscles of the posterior compartments of the thigh and the leg. The superomedial boundary of the poplateral fossa is formed by the distal ends of the semimembranosus and the semitendinosus muscle. Remember, membranosus is medial, tendinosus sits on top. Superolaterally, the boundary is formed by the biceps femoris muscle. The inferomedial boundary is formed by the medial head of the gastronemius. The inferolateral boundary is formed by the plantaris and the lateral head of the gastronemius muscle. In terms of the floor, it's comprised of the capsule of the knee joint and the oblique poplateral ligament, as well as the fascia of the poplateral muscle and the poplateral surface of the femur. In terms of the roof of the poplateral fossa, this is formed by skin, superficial fascia and deep fascia. The most important structure to remember with regard to the roof is the small saphenous vein. The small saphenous vein passes through the roof. It receives its blood supply from the dorsal venous arch of the foot and passes between the heads of the gastronemius muscles to drain into the poplateral vein. Now let's take a look at some of the contents of the poplateral fossa. So it contains four main structures. The poplateral artery, the poplateral vein, the tibial nerve and the common peronyl nerve. The tibial nerve and the common peronyl nerves are branches of the sciatic nerve. I've just removed the medial head of the gastronemius here and you can see how the tibial nerve leaves the poplateral fossa and passes underneath the plantaris muscle to enter the posterior compartment of the leg. The common peronyl nerve leaves the poplateral fossa by following the tendon of the biceps femoris. It winds around the neck of the fibula to enter the lateral compartment of the leg, branching into the superficial and deep peronyl nerves. The common peronyl nerve is susceptible to injury or compression as it winds over the fibular neck, which can result in foot drop. The poplateral artery is the deepest structure in the poplateral fossa. It's a continuation of the superficial femoral artery and divides into the tibial peronyl trunk and the anterior tibial artery. The poplateral vein is superficial to the poplateral artery and exits the poplateral fossa superiorly, passing through the adductor hiatus within the adductor magnus muscle to enter the anterior compartment of the thigh. It receives blood from the anterior and posterior tibial veins and drains to the femoral vein. So that's the anatomy of the poplateral fossa. If you found it helpful, give the video a like and subscribe to the channel. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Posterior Cranial Fossa ｜ Skull Anatomy [yRYS--2jviM].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to be taking a look at the anatomy of the posterior cranial fossa. So I've removed the parietal bones and we're looking from a superior view at the cranial base. The posterior cranial fossa is the largest and deepest of the cranial fossa and is made up mainly of the occipital bone but is also comprised of parts of the sphenoid and temporal bones. In terms of the boundaries of the boundaries of the boundaries of the posterior cranial fossa. Anterially in the midline is the dorsum celli and the clivus. The clivus is this bone that slopes up from the foramen magnum. I've removed a few bones and rotated to a lateral view so you can appreciate the sloping angulation of the clivus and its relationship to the dorsum celli of the sphenoid bone anteriorly. Anterolaterally, the posterior cranial fossa is separated from the middle cranial fossa by the superior border to a cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical cervical to the level of the transverse groove. Its main contents are the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla oblongata. Let's take a look now at some of the key features and foramenia. We'll take a look at the structures that pass through the openings of the posterior cranial fossa in a separate tutorial. In this tutorial I just want you to try and orientate yourself to some of the landmarks and locations of key features. Looking again at a superior view, this large opening here is the foramen magnum. This is the deepest part of the posterior cranial fossa and is surrounded by the basilar, lateral, and squamous parts of the occipital bone. The spinal cord passes through the foramen magnum to become the brainstem and there are a few other structures such as the vertebral arteries which also pass through. Between the basilar part of the occipital bone and the petrous part of the temporal bone is a groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Lateral to this on either side, within the petrous part of the temporal bone, there is a small opening called the internal auditory meatus which is an oval foramen which transmits the facial and vestibulococular nerves. Inferior to this is a large opening called the jugular foramen. The internal jugular vein and three cranial nerves pass through this opening. Just medial to the jugular foramen is the jugular tubercle. If we follow this inferiorly, we find the hypoglossal canal deep within the posterior cranial fossa just above the foramen magnum. As the name suggests, this little opening transmits the hypoglossal nerve. I'm just going to rotate the model 180 degrees and we'll finish by taking a look at the internal surface of the occipital bone. Running upwards in the midline from the foramen magnum is the internal occipital crest. This ends at the internal occipital protuberance which is formed in relation to the confluence of venous sinuses. Just for illustration, I've added in the venous sinuses of the brain and you can see that the confluence of sinuses is where the transverse, sagittal and straight sinuses meet. We'll learn about the venous drainage of the brain in a later tutorial where we'll revisit this in more detail. On either side of the internal occipital crest are concave impressions which are called the cerebellar fossae. These accommodate the cerebellum. Extending laterally from the internal occipital protuberance are grooves formed by the transverse sinuses. So that's the anatomy of the posterior cranial fossa. We've looked at its boundaries and some of its key features and in previous tutorials we've looked at the anatomy of the anterior and middle cranial fossae. If you've found this video helpful, please like, subscribe and leave a comment below. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Radial Nerve ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [3M6dzH1i-GI].txt ===

 limb and is derived from the brachial plexus as a continuation of the posterior cord. This schematic of the brachial plexus shows how the radial nerve contains nerve fibres from spinal roots C5 to T1. Check out my video series on the brachial plexus for more information on this topic and to learn about its structure in more detail. The radial nerve has both sensory and motor function. In terms of motor function, it is essentially responsible for innervating the muscles of the posterior compartment of the arm and the forearm. In the arm, this means it innervates the triceps brachii, which is responsible for extension at the elbow joint. In the forearm, it innervates the majority of the extensor muscles and is therefore responsible for extension of the wrist and the fingers and is also involved in supination of the forearm. With regard to sensory function, the radial nerve innervates most of the skin of the posterior side of the forearm and the dorsal surface of the lateral side of the palm and lateral three and a half digits. You can see the sensory distribution illustrated by the red shading in this diagram. Let's take a look now at the anatomical course of the radial nerve. The radial nerve is a continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus containing nerve fibres from all five roots from C5 to T1. In this model here, you can see the axillary and brachial arteries made translucent so that you can see the course of the radial nerve and its relation to these structures. The radial nerve arises in the axilla, exiting posteriorly to the brachial artery. It passes with the profunda brachii artery into the posterior compartment of the arm via the triangular interval. Before doing so, it gives rise to branches which supply the medial and long heads of the triceps muscle. In addition, it also gives rise to a sensory branch. This is the posterior cutaneous nerve of the arm, which supplies the skin on the posterior surface of the upper arm. You can see this nerve highlighted here in blue as it curves around posteriorly to provide this sensory innervation. The radial nerve then descends down the arm, travelling in a shallow depression on the surface of the humerus. This depression is known as the radial groove. As it moves inferiorly, the radial nerve wraps around the humerus in a lateral direction and gives a branch to the lateral head of the triceps brachii. During its course in the arm, the nerve is accompanied by the deep branch of the brachial artery, the profunda brachii, which you can see here. The radial nerve gives off two more sensory branches in the arm, the inferior lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm and the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm. From this posterior view, you can see the inferior lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm in dark blue colour and the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm in pink. I've switched now to an anterior view and you can see the inferior lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm perforating through the lateral head of the triceps to innervate the skin of the lateral part of the lower half of the arm. You can see in pink here the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm, which is also known as the dorsal anti-brachial cutaneous nerve. This also perforates through the lateral head of the triceps and passes posteriorly to innervate a strip of skin down the middle of the posterior forearm. Having given off these two sensory branches, the radial nerve then passes through the lateral intermuscular septum to enter the anterior compartment, where it is then situated between the brachialis muscle and the brachioradialis muscle. You can see the proximal end of the brachioradialis muscle here. The brachialis is not shown on this view of the model. To enter the forearm, the radial nerve moves anteriorly over the lateral epicondyle of the humerus through the cubital fossa. I've zoomed in a little closer and you can see that within the forearm, the nerve terminates by dividing into two branches, the deep branch in green and the superficial branch which you can see here in blue. The deep branch is a motor branch. It passes between the two heads of the supinator muscle and continues as the posterior interosseous nerve to innervate the muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm. The superficial branch is a sensory branch. This branch descends down the anterolateral aspect of the forearm, deep to the brachioradialis muscle along with the radial artery. It then curves around laterally over the radius passing dorsally. Within the hand, the superficial branch passes over the anatomical snuffbox and then innervates the dorsolateral surface of the lateral three and a half digits and their associated palm area. I've switched over to a diagram now to illustrate the sensory distribution of the various branches of the radial nerve. There are four branches in total which provide sensory innervation that arise from the radial nerve. On the left hand side, showing an anterior view of the arm, in the red shading you can see the area of innervation supplied by the inferior lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm. On the right hand side, the blue area of shading shows the area supplied by the posterior cutaneous nerve of the arm. The yellow shaded area is supplied by the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm. And the purple area is supplied by the superficial branch. So that's an overview of the anatomy of the radial nerve. For more anatomy articles check out teachmeanatomy.info and for more anatomy videos check out anatomyzone.com. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Rotator Cuff ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [RaIt79pPfgE].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the rotator cuff. The rotator cuff are a group of four small muscles within the shoulder which originate from the scapula and attach to the humerus to provide dynamic stability at the glenohumeral or shoulder joint. These muscles are found deep within the shoulder, so here you can see the pectoralis major, deltoid, trapezius, and the pectoralis major, deltoid, trapezius, and laddismus dorsi muscle, which are some of the large muscles involved in moving our shoulder. Underneath these we can find the rotator cuff muscles. So our shoulder joint is made up of the head of the humerus which sits within the shallow glenoid fossa. At any one time there is only about one third of that humeral head sitting in the glenoid fossa. This configuration allows lots of mobility of the joint but in return the shoulder joint sacrifices stability. To regain stability we have four rotator cuff muscles which can be remembered by the acronym SITS. Supraspinatus, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and on the anterior surface of the scapula, the subscapularis. In this tutorial we'll discuss each one of these muscles in turn. The supraspinatus originates in the supraspinous fossa. As with many anatomical terms, the name of the muscle itself gives you a clue about where it's located. Supra refers to above and spinatus refers to the spine of the scapula. So the supraspinatus sits in the supraspinous fossa above the spine of the scapula. The supraspinatus then passes underneath the acromion to attach onto the greater tuberosity on its superior facet. In terms of its action, the supraspinatus muscle in isolation creates abduction of the humerus. The muscle is innervated by the suprascapular nerve. The next muscle is the infraspinatus. So from its name we can tell that it's located below the spine of the scapula. The spine of the scapula. And it sits within the infraspinous fossa. The infraspinatus muscle inserts onto the greater tuberosity of the humerus on its middle facet, just below the insertion of the supraspinatus muscle. In isolation, the infraspinatus muscle performs lateral rotation or external rotation of the humerus. It's worth noting that the supraspinatus and infraspinatus share a nerve supply derived from the suprascapular nerve, which comes off the superior trunk of the brachial plexus to supply both of these muscles. Next, we have the teres minor muscle. The teres minor muscle is located just inferior to the infraspinatus on the lateral border of the scapula. It then inserts onto the greater tuberosity of the humerus on its inferior facet. So just to recap, we've looked at three rotator cuff muscles so far, the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor, which all insert onto the greater tuberosity on the superior, middle and inferior facets respectively. In isolation, the teres minor muscle performs external or lateral rotation of the humerus. The nerve supply to the teres minor muscle is derived from the axillary nerve. The final muscle to talk about is the subscapularis. The subscapularis muscle sits on the anterior surface of the scapula. If we now remove the ribcage, we can take a closer look at this muscle. The subscapularis originates in the subscapular fossa, which is this depression occupying almost all of the anterior part of the scapula. From its origin on the scapula, the subscapularis muscle inserts onto the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, which you can see here. The subscapularis is the largest and strongest rotator cuff muscle, accounting for approximately 50% of the cuff strength output. When you isolate this muscle, it performs medial or internal rotation of the humerus. The subscapularis is innervated by the subscapular nerves, which is comprised of the upper subscapular nerve and the lower subscapular nerve. Both these nerves originate from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. So that's an overview of the basic anatomy of the rotator cuff muscles. Just to finish off this tutorial, I would like to go through a few clinically relevant points relating to this muscle group. We've described the individual movements of the rotator cuff when each muscle is in isolation. However, in reality, the rotator cuff muscle works as a collective unit to provide dynamic stability at our shoulder joint while we're moving our arm. So when you're thinking about describing the action of this group of muscles, they in essence keep the head of the humerus in contact with the glenoid fossa during movement. They work to provide compression and depression of the humeral head at this joint. Because of the complexity of the shoulder joint and the relative weakness of this group of muscles, they are easily injured. There are many injuries which involve this group of muscles, which are commonly referred to as rotator cuff syndrome. This essentially is an umbrella term which refers to a variety of conditions affecting the rotator cuff. Sometimes this might be an acute strain or tear of the rotator cuff, tendinitis, which is common in younger athletes. So in sports which require repetitive overhead movements like bowling and cricket or pitching in baseball. Certain occupations like painting and decorating where there's a lot of overhead arm use can also predispose to tears of the rotator cuff. The commonest of which would be a supraspinatus tear. The reason this is the most commonly torn is because if you look here at the acromion, which is essentially like a roof above the supraspinatus tendon as it passes underneath to insert onto the greater tuberosity of the humerus. When you elevate your arm, this space narrows meaning it can get pinched, inflamed and consequently tear. In middle age and onwards, the blood supply which is already poor to this muscle group can deteriorate even further, meaning chronic overhead use over years causes a degenerative tear which can be thought of kind of like how an old rope frays over time. And so again, the supraspinatus is often most vulnerable to this injury and both of these would present with pain and reduced power with abduction of the shoulder. Whilst there are several others, the other common conditions you might hear talked about is subacromial impingement syndrome. This condition relates to problems arising within this area here called the subacromial space. Common pathologies in this area include supraspinatus tendonitis from overuse or a subacromial bursitis. This here is the subacromial bursa. A bursa is just a fluid-filled sac. They reduce friction between surfaces and we have many of them throughout the body which serve the same purpose. So in either of these conditions, what is happening is that because the supraspinatus tendon is inflamed or the bursa is inflamed, it creates a narrowing of the subacromial space, meaning that when we elevate our arm, the inflamed structure, the tendon or the bursa, gets pinched and this causes pain. Sometimes neither of these pathologies are the cause of pain and it can be small bony spurs projecting of the acromion which pinches the bursa or tendon below it. The hallmark feature of this condition is the painful arc, where maximal pain is felt between 60 and 120 degrees of abduction. The pain is worse at this range because this is where the subacromial space is most narrow. But as any physiotherapist will tell you, a lot of shoulder injuries require rehabilitation of the entire rotator cuff, particularly in something like impingement syndrome, as strengthening the cuff means the humeral head will be better compressed and depressed against the glenoid, so you can get more clearance between the humerus and acromion. during movement of your arm. So I hope that this tutorial has given you a good overall understanding of the anatomy of the rotator cuff. If you've enjoyed this tutorial, please give us a thumbs up, don't forget to subscribe and we'll see you in the next tutorial.

=== FILE: Sacral Plexus ｜ Anatomy Tutorial [DZ0IL1tHNxo].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone and in this video we will be taking a look at the anatomy of the sacral plexus. This video is a collaboration between Anatomyzone and TeachMeanatomy.info. Check out the links in the video description below for some useful articles to accompany this video tutorial. The sacral plexus is a network of nerve fibers that supplies the the skin and the skin of the skin and the purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple purple six nerves which you can see in this model here. The iliohypogastric nerve, the ilioinguinal, the genitofemoral which pierces the psoas major, the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve and the large obturator and femoral nerves. The sacral plexus is formed by the anterior rami or divisions of the sacral spinal nerves S1, S2, S3 and S4. It also receives contributions from the lumbar spinal nerves L4 and L5 which combine to form the lumbosacral trunk. The spinal nerves from S1 to S4 form the basis of the sacral plexus. At each vertebral level, paired spinal nerves leave the spinal cord via the intervertebral foramenor of the vertebral column. Each nerve then divides into anterior and posterior branches which are known as rami. The sacral plexus begins as the anterior fibres of the spinal nerves S1, S2, S3 and S4. These sacral fibres emerge via the anterior sacral foramenor. They are joined by the 4th and 5th lumbar roots which combine to form with the lumbosacral trunk. This descends into the pelvis to meet the sacral roots as they emerge from the spinal cord. The sacral plexus is formed on the anterior surface of the piriformis muscle which forms the posterolateral border of the pelvic wall. I've switched over now to a schematic of the sacral plexus which we will use in conjunction with the 3D model. The anterior rami of the S1 to S4 spinal roots and the lumbosacral trunk have both dorsal and ventral divisions which come together to form the major peripheral nerves. In this schematic, the dorsal divisions are indicated by the darker shading. There are 5 major peripheral nerves which derive from the sacral plexus. The superior and inferior gluteal nerves, the sciatic nerve, the posterior femoral cutaneous nerve and the pudendal nerve. There are, in addition, numerous smaller branches which provide innervation to the pelvic walls, floors and individual muscles of the gluteal region. These nerves from the sacral plexus descend down the posterior pelvic wall and have 3 possible courses. The first of which is to leave the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen and enter the gluteal region of the lower limb, either above or below the piriformis muscle. The second course is to remain within the pelvis and to innervate the pelvic muscles, organs and perineum. The third course is to leave via the greater sciatic foramen, loop around the sacrospinous ligament, and re-enter via the lesser sciatic foramen to supply lateral pelvic structures and perineal structures. Most of the nerves take the first route, leaving the pelvis by passing inferior to the piriformis via the greater sciatic foramen. We will look now at the main nerves of the sacral plexus in turn, and then take a look at some of the smaller, remaining nerves. The superior gluteal nerve originates from nerve roots L4, L5 and S1. The superior gluteal nerve leaves the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen, entering the gluteal region superiorly to the piriformis muscle. I've removed the gluteus maximus and the gluteus medius so that you can see this nerve here. It is accompanied by the superior gluteal artery and vein for much of its course. In terms of motor function, it innervates the gluteus minimus which you can see here, the gluteus medius which I've just brought back, and the tensor fasciae lati. The inferior gluteal nerve originates from spinal nerve roots L5, S1 and S2. This nerve leaves the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen, entering the gluteal region inferiorly to the piriformis muscle. It is accompanied by the inferior gluteal artery and vein for much of its course. Its motor function is to innervate the gluteus maximus muscle. The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve of the body and it's derived from five nerve roots from L4 to S3. It has two components, the common fibular component and the tibial component. The common fibular component is formed from the dorsal divisions of L4 to S2. The sciatic nerve is formed on the anterior aspect of the piriformis muscle and it exits the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen, inferior to the piriformis. In terms of motor function, the tibial portion of the sciatic nerve innervates all of the muscles in the posterior compartment of the thigh, except for the short head of the biceps femoris. It also innervates the hamstring portion of the adductor magnus muscle. Additionally, the tibial portion innervates all muscles in the posterior compartment of the leg and all muscles in the sole of the foot. The common fibular portion innervates the short head of the biceps femoris and all muscles in the anterior and lateral compartments of the leg and it also innervates the extensor digitorum brevis muscle. In terms of sensory function, the tibial portion innervates the skin on the posterolateral surface of the leg as well as the sole of the foot. The common fibular portion innervates the skin on the anterolateral surface of the leg and the dorsal aspect of the foot. The posterior femoral cutaneous nerve originates from spinal nerve roots S1, S2 and S3. The posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh leaves the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen, entering the gluteal region inferiorly to the piriformis muscle. You can see it highlighted in green colour on this model. It descends deep to the gluteus maximus and runs down the back of the thigh to the knee. This nerve has only sensory function as the name suggests. It innervates the skin on the posterior surface of the thigh and the leg and it also innervates the skin of the perineum. The pudendal nerve originates from nerve roots S2, S3 and S4. This nerve and the nerve to the obturator internus are the two nerves which leave the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen to enter the gluteal region and then they loop around the sacrospinous ligament to enter the perineum via the lesser sciatic foramen. In terms of motor function, the pudendal nerve innervates the skeletal muscles in the perineum, the external urethral sphincter, the external anal sphincter and the levator ani muscle. In terms of its sensory function, it innervates the penis and the clitoris and most of the skin of the perineum. We've taken a look now at the five major nerves of the sacral plexus, but in addition to these there are a number of smaller branches. These tend to be nerves that directly supply muscles, with the exception of the perforating cutaneous nerve, which supplies the skin over the inferior gluteal region, and the pelvic splanchnic nerves, which innervate the abdominal viscera. The perforating cutaneous nerve originates from S2 and S3 and innervates the skin over the gluteal fold. It is called perforating because it perforates the sacrotuberous ligament to provide its cutaneous innervation. You can see this ligament highlighted bilaterally in green colour attaching from the sacrum to the ischial tuberosity. The nerve to piriformis is formed from S2 and occasionally from S1, innervating the piriformis muscle directly. The nerve to obturator internus originates from L5 to S2, and like the pudendal nerve, it exits the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen, loops around the sacrospinous ligament, and re-enters via the lesser sciatic foramen, to directly innervate the obturator internus muscle and also the superior gemellus. The nerve to quadratus femoris originates from L4 to S1, and leaves the pelvis via the greater sciatic foramen inferior to the piriformis muscle to innervate the quadratus femoris as well as the inferior gemellus muscle. the nerve to radicular the tortillas.

=== FILE: Subscapularis ｜  Muscle Anatomy [2PiMaQjHLI0].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jackat's Anatomy zone, and in this tutorial we're going to go through the subscapularis muscle. So the subscapularis muscle, accounting for about 50% of the power output of the entire rotator cuff. So the subscapularis originates from the subscapularis originates from the subscapular fossa, which you can see here. It then moves around the front of the scapularis to insert on the lesser tubercle of the humerus. And just as a side note here, it's the only rotator cuff muscle to insert on the lesser tubercle of the humerus. It acts with the other rotator cuff muscles as the other three insert on the greater tubercle. It acts with the other rotator cuff muscles as they all do to provide dynamic stability at the shoulder joint when you're moving your arm, but individually when it contracts it medially rotates our humerus. In terms of its nerve supply, it's innervated by the upper and lower subscapular nerves. So here on screen you can see a picture of the brachial plexus. And the posterior cord of the brachial plexus gives off the superior or upper subscapular nerve, which you can see here. And that supplies the upper portion of the subscapularis muscle. And that posterior cord also gives rise to the inferior or lower subscapular nerve as you can see here. And that obviously therefore supplies the lower portion of the subscapularis. In terms of the vascular supply in this region, it receives its arterial blood from the subscapular artery. So the subscapular artery arises from the axillary artery. But if you want to be really exact, there's actually two branches that the subscapular artery gives off. The thoracodorsal artery and the circumflex scapular artery. And it's that circumflex scapular artery which is supplying the subscapularis muscle along with several of other muscles within the shoulder region. So that's everything that we wanted to go through in the subscapularis muscle. If you've enjoyed this tutorial, please give us a like. And for more, make sure you subscribe to Anatomy Zone. The 3D models using this tutorial were powered by the amazing and free Anatomy Learning app. Go check it out for yourself at AnatomyLearning.com

=== FILE: Supraspinatus ｜ Muscle Anatomy [6DEtdFMTblA].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jack at Anatomy zone and this tutorial we're going to go through the anatomy of the supraspinatus muscle. So the supraspinatus is one of the four muscles which make up the rotator cuff and it can be found deep to the superficial powerful shoulder muscles on the superior aspect of the scapula and the humerus bone. The supraspinatus originates in the supraspinatus эт sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred sacred on the superior facet. The infraspinatus attaches just to the middle facet and the teres minor on the inferior facet and that's remembered by the acronym SIT. The supraspinatus acts in isolation to cause abduction of our arm and now it's classically taught that it initiates abduction i.e. in the first 30 degrees or so but in fact that's incorrect and what we know is that the supraspinatus works throughout abduction. The other thing to remember though is that this movement is what it does when it's isolated and in reality what this muscle is doing is working with the other rotator cuff muscles to provide dynamic shoulder stability meaning it keeps the shoulder joint stable during movement of our arm. The supraspinatus is innervated by the suprascapular nerve. This nerve arises from the superior trunk of the brachial plexus and that's formed typically by the ventral rami of the 5th and 6th cervical nerve roots. From its origin it runs laterally and downwards underneath the trapezius muscle to reach the suprascapular notch and at that point it gives off two branches before going around the lateral aspect of the scapular spine border to terminate with innervation of the infraspinatus muscle. In terms of its blood supply it gets 90% of its blood supply from the suprascapular artery and it receives 10% of its blood supply from the dorsal scapular artery and both of these arteries arise from our subclavian artery which you can see here. So that's the anatomy of the supraspinatus muscle. I hope you've enjoyed this tutorial. If you have give us a thumbs up and we'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Teres Minor ｜ Muscle Anatomy [UlADwGId8UI].txt ===

 Hey, this is Jack at Anatomy zone and in this tutorial we're going to go through the anatomy of the teres minor muscle. So the teres minor is one of the four muscles which makes up our rotator cuff. And it sits with the other rotator cuff muscles just underneath the more powerful superficial shoulder muscles. The teres minor itself sits on the posterior of the infraspinator, so this is a mamberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberberber facet of the greater tubercle of the humerus bone. And remember that the infraspinatus muscle sits on the middle facet and the supraspinatus sits on the superior facet and that's remembered with the acronym SIT. In terms of its action, in isolation the teres minor produces lateral rotation of our humerus bone. But like with the other rotator cuff muscles, in reality what it's doing is providing dynamic stability to our shoulder joint so that our shoulder stays stable whilst we're moving our arm. If we now look at the nerve supply, the teres minor receives its innervation from the axillary nerve. And so that's quite an unclear picture with everything else going on. So I'm just going to dissect away a few of those objects and you can see that axillary nerve a bit clearer now. It's made up of the cervical nerve roots C5 and C6 and the axillary nerve itself actually originates as a terminal branch from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. And then from its origin there, the axillary nerve then just wraps around the side of the scapula to move on to supply the teres minor. In terms of its blood supply, the teres minor receives its arterial supply from two arteries, the subscapular artery and the circumflex scapular artery. So the subscapular artery arises from the much larger axillary artery. And then the circumflex scapula actually comes off of the subscapular artery as one of its first branches. And then it's both of these arteries that then wrap around the back of the scapula to supply the teres minor muscle. So that's the anatomy of the teres minor muscle. We hope you've enjoyed this tutorial. If you have, click the like button. Don't forget to subscribe and we'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Triceps ｜ Muscle Anatomy [YxlfXFLmZ3M].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the triceps muscle. The triceps muscle is the large fusiform muscle which forms the posterior compartment of the arm. The triceps muscle is biarticular as it crosses both the shoulder joint and the elbow joint, acting as an extensor at each joint, with the major action being at the elbow joint. As suggested by its name, the triceps has three heads and typically is twice the size of your biceps muscle, making up two thirds of the muscle bulk within your upper arm. So let's take a look at the origins of the individual muscle heads in turn. The long head of the triceps brachii originates from the infraglenoid tubercle. This is a small bump found at the base of the glenoid fossa of the scapula. The lateral head of the lateral head. The lateral head originates from the posterior surface of the humerus, superior to the radial groove. The radial groove, also known as the spiral groove, is this groove on the posterolateral surface of the humerus, where the deep branch of the brachial artery and the radial nerve run. The medial head lies deep to the other heads and originates from the posterior surface of the humerus, inferior to the radial groove. In terms of its insertion, distally, the heads of the triceps brachii converge onto a common tendon, which attaches to the proximal end of the olecranon of the ulna and blends with the fascia of the proximal forearm. The triceps muscle is innervated by the radial nerve, which is the terminal continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, arising from spinal root C6 to C8. It is worth noting that it has been shown that in some individuals, the long head of the triceps brachii is innervated by the axillary nerve. The triceps muscle derives its blood supply from the profunda brachii artery, which is the deep branch of the brachial artery. This vessel passes posterior to the humerus within the radial groove and between the medial and lateral heads of the triceps. The main function of the triceps muscle is extension of the forearm at the elbow joint. Because the long head crosses the shoulder joint, the triceps muscle actually has a small role in shoulder extension and shoulder adduction, although there are other muscles which are more important in these movements. For example, the latissimus dorsi and posterior fibres of the deltoid for extension, and the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi for adduction. In addition, the long head of the triceps has a role in stabilising the adducted humerus at the shoulder joint by helping to resist inferior displacement of the humeral head. The medial head of the triceps seems to be the muscle most involved with forearm extension, and it's believed to be involved at all ranges of motion and both with and without resistance. The lateral head is thought to be the strongest head, but in contrast to the medial head, it is recruited into activity against resistance. In terms of clinically relevant points, it's important to note that the radial nerve which supplies the triceps muscle can be injured with humeral fractures. Depending on the location of the fracture, this may weaken but not completely paralysse the triceps muscles, because the nerve branches innervating the lateral and long heads arise superior to the radial groove. A more distal fracture at the mid-shaft may therefore cause partial weakness, whereas a proximal injury may paralysse all of the three heads of the triceps. So that's the anatomy of the triceps muscle. If you've enjoyed the video, please give us a like and subscribe to our channel. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Ulnar Nerve ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [EoTfDy8T5vM].txt ===

 gehabt, gehabt, tutorial. The ulnar nerve is a major peripheral nerve of the upper limb. It's derived from the brachial plexus and is a continuation of the medial cord, containing fibres from spinal roots C8 and T1. Check out my video series on the brachial plexus for more information on this topic. The ulnar nerve has both sensory and motor function. In terms of motor function, it innervates the muscles of the hand, apart from the thenar muscles and the two lateral lumbicles, which are innervated by the median nerve. In the forearm, the ulnar nerve innervates the flexor carpi ulnarus muscle and the medial half of the flexor digitorum profundus. In terms of its sensory function, it innervates the anterior and posterior surfaces of the medial 1.5 fingers and the associated area on the palm of the hand. Let's take a look now at the anatomical cause of the ulnar nerve. After arising from the medial cord of the brachial plexus, the ulnar nerve descends down the medial side of the upper arm to the elbow. Approximately, here you can see that it lies medial to the axillary artery, and as it reaches the level of the middle arm, it penetrates through the medial intermuscular septum to enter the posterior compartment, where it then lies anterior to the medial head of the triceps brachii muscle. I've switched over to a medial view of the arm now, and you can see that at the elbow, it passes posterior to the medial epicondyle to enter the forearm. At this point behind the medial epicondyle, the ulnar nerve is easily palpable, and it's vulnerable to injury at this point. Rotating the model around anteriorly now, you can see how the nerve pierces the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle to enter the forearm. Within the forearm, the ulnar nerve gives rise to three branches. You've got the muscular branches proximally, and then you've got the parmacutaneous branch, and the dorsal cutaneous branch distally. Looking proximally, you can see here the muscular branches which innervate the two muscles in the anterior compartment of the forearm. So on this model, you can see the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle here, and this is responsible for flexing and adducting the hand at the wrist. The ulnar nerve only provides innervation to the medial half of this muscle here, the flexor digitorum profundus, and this muscle is responsible for flexing the fingers. The remaining muscles within the anterior compartment of the forearm are innervated by the median nerve. The parmacutaneous branch is not actually demonstrated on this model here, but it is a small branch that arises from the middle of the forearm, and it runs distally to supply the skin on the medial part of the palm. Moving distally now, you can see this branch here, the dorsal cutaneous branch, which passes posteriorly behind the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to supply sensation to the dorsomedial aspect of the hand. At the wrist, the ulnar nerve travels superficially to the flexor retinaculum. It then enters the hand via the ulnar canal, or Gion's canal. Within the hand itself, the ulnar nerve terminates by dividing into the superficial and deep branches immediately distal to the pisiform bone, which you can see here. The deep branch has mainly motor function, whereas the superficial branch has mainly sensory function. The majority of the intrinsic hand muscles are actually innervated by this deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and you can see it here running laterally along the deep aspect of the palm. On its root, it supplies the hypotenar muscles, which is the group of muscles associated with the little finger, and it also innervates some other muscles of the hand. These muscles include the medial two lumbricles, the adductor polychus, and the interossei muscles of the hand. The remaining muscles of the hand, including the lateral two lumbricles and the thenar muscles, are innervated by the median nerve. Now the superficial branch has mainly sensory function, and it's responsible for innervating the palmar surface of the medial one and a half fingers. In this diagram here, in the light blue shading, you can see the sensory distribution of the ulnar nerve in the hand. So that's a quick run through the anatomy of the ulnar nerve. For more anatomy articles, visit teachmeanatomy.info, and for more videos, check out anatomizone.com. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Vertebral Column - Introduction ｜ 3D Anatomy Tutorial [s8WfisaAY6Q].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this video we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the vertebral column. You can now interact with an annotated version of the 3D model that I use in these videos, which are available on my website at anatomyzone.com. Check out the video description for the link and let me know what you think in the comments below. The vertebral column is part of the axial skeleton and functions to support the body's weight and encloses and the body's weight and encloses the body. the overboard which consist of 9 fused vertebrae. So there are 7 cervical vertebrae, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 3-4 coccygeal. In between each vertebrae, there is an intervertebral disc, which forms a fibrocartilaginous joint, allowing slight movement between the vertebrae and functioning as a shock absorber for the spine. The intervertebral disc consists of a tough outer fibrous ring called the annulus fibrosis and a gelatinous centre, the nucleus pulposus. Degenerative changes or mechanical trauma can cause tears in the outer annulus fibrosis, squeezing out the nucleus pulposus, which can then exert direct pressure on the spinal cord itself, or more commonly on the nerve roots as they leave the spinal cord. This is known as a disc herniation, and I'll do a more detailed tutorial on the clinical anatomy of this topic separately. The vertebrae are identified by a letter and a number. So for the cervical vertebrae, you have vertebrae C1 to 7, for the thoracic vertebrae, you have T1 to T12, and for the lumbar vertebrae, you have L1 to L5. This naming convention is useful when referring to anatomical landmarks and when referring to spinal nerves. With regard to the spinal nerves, these are named according to the level at which they exit the vertebral column. Within the cervical spine, although there are only 7 vertebrae, there are actually 8 spinal nerves. I've just rotated the model around, and you can see how the first cervical spinal nerve exits above the first cervical vertebrae, C1. As another example, if we look here at this vertebra in the lumbar region, we can see where the lowest rib articulates. So this must be the 12th rib, and therefore articulates with the 12th thoracic vertebra. We can count down L1, L2, and see that this is the L3 vertebra. We can alternatively count back from the 5th lumbar vertebra, starting from above the sacrum, so L5, L4, and then L3. I've just zoomed in a bit, and here you can see this nerve, the L3 spinal nerve, exiting from between the L3 and L4 vertebrae through this gap, the intervertebral foramen. In terms of using spinal levels for reference points to anatomical landmarks, a clinical example would be in the context of performing a lumbar puncture. In adults, we know that the spinal cord terminates at the conus medullaris, which lies at approximately the L1 to L2 level. We can palpate the iliac crests, the top of which we know lie at approximately the L4 level. From here, we can identify the spinous process of L4 and a safe entry point for the needle to avoid damage to the spinal cord. With regard to other examples of anatomical landmarks, an example would include the sternal angle of Louis, or the manubrio-sternal junction, which lies at the T45 level. This level determines the thoracic plane, an artificial horizontal plane which divides the superior mediastinum from the inferior mediastinum, and at which there are a few key anatomical landmarks, such as the start and end of the aortic arch, and the bifurcation of the trachea. As you have seen, the adult vertical column is curved. There are four curvatures. The cervical lordosis, which is convex anteriorly, the thoracic kyphosis, which is convex dorsally, the lumbar lordosis, which is convex anteriorly, and then you have the pelvic curvature, which is concave anteriorly, starting at the lumbosacral junction and ending at the coccyx. In the N8, the vertebral column just has one fixed kyphotic curvature, which is concave anteriorly, and known as the primary curvature. The other lordotic curvatures are progressively developed later in life, as shown in this diagram, and are known as secondary curvatures. In terms of movements of the vertebral column, these vary according to the spinal level, but there are four movements which are possible. These movements are limited by the morphology of the joints between the vertebrae, the presence of ribs in the thoracic region, and the ligamentous structures. There are two more specialised joints within the cervical spine, which I'll just quickly mention. The joint between the skull and the first cervical vertebrae is the atlanto-occipital joint. It's given this name because the first vertebrae is also referred to as the atlas, and the second vertebrae is known as the axis. The part of the skull it articulates with is the occipital bone, hence the atlanto-occipital joint. I've just rotated posteriorly, and you can see there are two articulations at the atlanto-occipital joint, which are synovial condyloid joints. At this joint, we get flexion and extension, and a small amount of lateral flexion. The joint between the first and second vertebrae is known as the atlanto-axial joint. C1 is the atlas, and C2 is the axis, hence the name. This is a complex joint, which consists of a specialised synovial pivot joint formed between the odontoid peg of C2 and the anterior arch of C1. This unique anatomical configuration enables rotational movement. So that completes this anatomy tutorial on the vertebral column. Don't forget to check out the 3D model, which you can find on my website. Check out the link in the description below for more information. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: What is Subarachnoid Haemorrhage？ ｜ Clinical Anatomy [2f6DZYeRgQk].txt ===

 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone and in this clinical anatomy video we'll be learning about the pathology of a subarachnoid haemorrhage. This machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine Understanding the anatomy of the arachnoid martyr is key to understanding the mechanisms and pathology of subarachnoid haemorrhage. The arachnoid martyr is the middle meningeal layer and gets its name from its spiderweb-like appearance. Here you can see that there are thin filaments known as arachnoid trabeculations which traverse the subarachnoid space and blend with the peer martyr. The arachnoid layer is a thin, transparent membrane which serves to cushion the central nervous system. Unlike the innermost layer, the peer martyr, it doesn't follow the gyral and sulcal contours of the brain and provides a loose-fitting covering. Between the arachnoid martyr and the peer martyr is the subarachnoid space. This is a normal anatomical space that is filled with cerebrospinal fluid and also contains cerebral vasculature. Damage to one of these vessels can therefore fill the subarachnoid space with blood and this is what a subarachnoid haemorrhage is. When blood gets into the subarachnoid space, it irritates the adjacent meningeal layers. This irritation gives rise to the classical triad of symptoms of meningism which includes neck stiffness, photophobia and headache. Meningism is not specific for blood within the subarachnoid space and can be caused by anything which inflames or irritates the meninges and is also commonly associated with bacterial meningitis. Subarachnoid haemorrhage can be traumatic or spontaneous. Most cases of subarachnoid haemorrhage are due to trauma but of the spontaneous or non-traumatic causes, by far the most common cause is rupture of an intracranial baryaneurism. These make up approximately 85% of the cases of spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage. An aneurism is a dilatation or bulging of the wall of a blood vessel. This pathological dilatation weakens the vessel wall and it can rupture, leaking blood into the subarachnoid space. I've just switched to a model demonstrating the major intracranial arteries. If I rotate to an inferior view, you can see the circle of Willis and its main branches. A baryaneurism is a saccular aneurism which most frequently occurs at the junctions between the major intracranial arteries at branching points from the circle of Willis. Here you can see an aneurism which is formed at the junction of the anterior cerebral artery and the anterior communicating artery. Like this aneurism that we see here, the majority of baryaneurisms are located in the anterior circulation, which arises from the carotid system, with the minority found in the posterior circulation, which arises from the vertebro-basilar system. Rupture of an aneurism is a potentially catastrophic and fatal event. A ruptured aneurism can be treated endovascularly by interventional radiologists who may use coils or stents to secure the aneurism, or by neurosurgeons who can stop the bleeding by clipping the neck of the aneurism. The second most common cause of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage which is worth knowing about is perimesoncophallic hemorrhage. As the name suggests, this is blood within the subarachnoid cisterns around the midbrain. In this type of subarachnoid hemorrhage, no cerebral aneurism is identified and the cause of bleeding is thought to be venous in origin. In cases of perimesoncophallic hemorrhage, blood will be seen anterior to the midbrain and the pons. Due to the suspected venous origin of the blood, prognosis in this type of subarachnoid hemorrhage is significantly better than hemorrhage due to a ruptured arterial cerebral aneurism. There are several other much less frequently occurring causes of blood within the subarachnoid space. For example, arteriovenous malformations, inflammatory causes like cerebral vasculitis, and spontaneous bleed secondary to anticoagulation, among many others. So that completes this tutorial looking at the clinical anatomy of subarachnoid hemorrhage. For more detailed anatomy tutorials on these relevant topics, you can check out my tutorials on the meninges of the brain and the circle of Willis. If you have found this video helpful, hit the like button below and subscribe to our channel. Thank you for watching.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:56.991614Z ===
