This is a tutorial on the muscles of mastication. Um, so the muscles of mastication are innovated by the trigeminal nerve and they're innovated by the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve. So that's V3. So when you're testing the trigeminal nerve, you're testing muscles of mastication and um facial sensation. So the muscles of mastication are innovated by the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve whereas the muscles of facial expression are innovated by the facial nerve cranial nerve 7. So the trigeminal nerve is cranial nerve number five and the muscles of mastication are innovated by V3. So the mandibular branch and there are four muscles that you need to know which are involved in mastication. the temporales, the massitor, the medial terragoid, and the lateral terragoid. So I'll begin by showing you the temporales muscle which is this muscle here, this big muscle which sits in the temporal fossa of the skull. So if I just show you the temporal fossa, you can see this indentation on the lateral aspect of the skull. And this is where the temporalus sits. And this muscle inserts all the muscles of mastication insert onto the mandible because the mandible is the bone that moves um to cause mastication. It's the bone which is in which is involved with chewing. Sorry. So, um, the temporalus inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible. So, that's the this anterior process here. So, if we just have a look at that, it just inserts here. So, if I just show you the other side, um, you can see that it inserts just there, the colonoid process of the mandible. And just looking at the point of insertion and the and its origin, you can see that if the muscle were to contract, it would cause the mandible to elevate and it can pull it back in a posterior direction. If you just look at the direction of the fibers, so it also causes the mandible to retract. So there's four important movements to know. Um, with regard to the mandible, you've got retraction, so that's movement posteriorly. You've got protrusion, so that's movement in this direction anteriorly. And you've got elevation, so bringing the mandible upwards in a superior direction. And you've got depression, which brings the mandible inferiorly. So four movements of the mandible. So looking at the origin and the insertion of the temporalus muscle, you can see that it elevates it and it can also retract it. Looking at the direction of the fibers. So if you put your fingers in the temporal region on your face and you clench your muscles as if you're chewing, you can actually feel this muscle working. And when you're testing the trigeminal nerve, this is what you do to your patients. you put your put your fingers in their temporal region and ask them to chew grind their teeth. So you can feel this muscle working. So if I just bring back the muscle that I got rid of um this muscle here is the massitor and this is another muscle involved in mastication. So this muscle actually has um two parts. It's got a superficial part and a deep part which isn't actually very clear on this um model. But the deep part inserts a bit more posteriorly on the zygomatic arch and the superficial part inserts more anterly on the zyg zygomatic arch. So if you remember my tutorial on this skull, you've got this arch here which is referred to as the zygomatic arch and it's comprised of the zygomatic process of the maxilla and the zygomatic bone. So the massitor um has two parts the deep and superficial part which insert on this sorry originate on the zygomatic arch and um it inserts onto the lateral aspect of the lateral surface of the ramis of the mandible. So again, this is a muscle you can feel on yourself. If you put your fingers over your over the sort of angle of your mandible and clench your teeth together, you can feel this muscle working. So what this muscle does is it elevates and retracts the mandible. Sorry, just elevates the mandible. Doesn't retract the mandible. So the next two muscles of mastication are the terragoid muscles. You've got the lateral and the medial terragoid muscles. And these muscles are called called the terragoid muscles because they insert onto the terragoid process. So if you have watched the tutorials on the skull, bones of the skull, you'll remember that the terragoid process is um a process um which extends downwards from the sppheninoid bone and the lateral and medial terragoid muscles insert onto the lateral plate of the terragoid process. So this is what I found a bit confusing. So the lateral tragoid muscle is called the lateral tragoid because it inserts onto the lateral surface of the lateral terragoid plate. The medial terragoid muscle is called the medial terragoid because it inserts onto the medial surface of the lateral terragoid plate. So I'll just it's better I'll just show you this quickly on a different model. So we've got the temporalus here, the massitor. And then if I remove the massitor, you can see there are some muscles that lie um deep to the to this m to the mandible. So if I just rotate it around, you can see right on the inside surface of the mandible that there are two muscles. Unfortunately, this um this model doesn't actually have the medial terragoid muscles. So, what we're looking at here is the lateral terragoid muscles. If I just show you from the outside, you can see how they sit underneath the mandible on the interior surface. So, just swing it around again. So, what you've got here are the lateral terragoid muscles. And there's two two parts. You've got the um superior lateral terragoid and the inferior lateral terragoid. And so this superior lateral terragoid originates um on the infratempal surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid and it um inserts uh superiorly on the condondola process of the mandible. So the um so this is the posterior process on the mandible. The inferior um lateral terragoid inserts a little bit lower on the neck of the condile of the mandible um and it originates on the lateral plate of the terragoid process. So just to show you again the terragoid process is this thing that's pointing down. So I'll just show you if I rotate it around if you keep your eyes on on this process here this downward pointing process. This is the terragoid process. So it might be easier if I just remove the mass to remove the mandible temporarily. And you can see this the terragoid process sticking down. So it's this bone here, this thing sticking down. And you've got medial and lateral plates. So you've got this medial plate here and you've got the lateral plate. So the terragoid muscles insert onto the lateral plate. Sorry, originate on the lateral plate. But the medial medial terragoid, which isn't shown here, inserts on the medial surface. and the lateral tragoid um inserts on the lateral process. And this model isn't entirely accurate because this muscle isn't shown to be um inserting on the lateral plate. But in reality, it inserts on this lateral plate of the terragoid process. And if I just get the mandible back, it inserts on the condile of the mandible. So just to repeat that, you've got the terragoid process here, which is a part of the sphenoid bone. You've got the lateral plate and the medial plate. But the confusing thing is that the medial terragoid doesn't insert on the medial plate which is this thing here. It actually inserts on the medial surface of the lateral terragoid plate. So it originates and it inserts um on the medial surface of the mandible. So that's the um medial terragoid muscle which isn't shown here unfortunately but that originates in the medial surface of the lateral terragoid and inserts onto the medial surface of the um angle of the mandible. So the lateral terragoid has two heads. It's got the two muscles. It's got the superior and inferior lateral tragoid. And the superior terragoid um superior lateral terragoid inserts um joins with the capsule of the temporary mandibular joint high up on the cond of the mandible. And the inferior lateral terragoid inserts on the neck of the cond of the mandible. So those are the four muscles of the of mastication. You've got the temporalus, the massitor, um which is this muscle here, and you've got the medial and lateral terragoid muscles. So the medial terragoid muscles are involved in elevation and side to side movements of the mandible. And the lateral terragoid is involved in protrusion and side to side movements of the mandible.