Okay, this tutorial is on the intrinsic muscles of the foot. So the intrinsic muscles are those muscles which originate and insert in the foot. So these muscles act to produce the fine movements of the toes and they also support the um arches of the foot. And the relationship between some of the intrinsic muscles with the tendons of the leg muscles which enter the foot means that these muscles can actually change the way that the forces are produced by some of these muscles. And we'll look at that in a bit more detail. So just like the other groups of muscles I've talked about, the intrinsic muscles of the foot can be separated into different layers. So you've got a planter group and a dorsal group. The dorsal group is really simple because there's actually just one muscle in this group. Uh but the planter group has four different layers. So I'll talk you through those. So just before I start just a quick uh mention about the innovation of the foot muscles. So apart from the extensive digtor brevis and the first two dorsal interosius muscles, all the intrinsic muscles are innovated by branches of the tibial nerve. So you've got two branches, the medial and lateral planted branches. So I'll just bring in the nerves and we'll take a look at those quickly. So we're looking posterally at the distal leg and foot and you can see the tibial nerve um running medially behind the medial malololis and entering under the flexor retinacculum to enter the tarsel tunnel. So I'll just fade away the muscles in there. Um we can have a look at this nerve. So I'm just showing you the planter surface of the foot. So you can see the tibial nerve running um medially in the distal foot and it enters the planter surface of the foot and it splits into these two branches. So laterally you've got the lateral planter nerve and medially you've got the medial plant nerve. So these two branches of the tibial nerve are responsible for innovation of the majority of the intrinsic muscles of the foot. So the um extensor digital and brevis muscle is innovated by the deep fibular nerve. Um so this is this nerve here which runs anterly on the tibia and it also supports innovates the anterior muscles of the leg. So this this branch this this nerve the deep fibular nerve innovates the extensor digital and brevis muscle and the first two dorsal interosius muscles but all the other intrinsic muscles are innovated by the medial and lateral planter nerves which are branches of the tibial nerve. So in the dorsal group you only have one muscle and that's the extensor digital and brevis muscle. So I'll just quickly show you that. So I've just isolated the extensor digital and brevis muscle. And you may notice that there's this other label here which says extensor hucus brevis. So this is um this is what the software has brought up. But um this muscle is actually often considered part of the extensor digital and brevis muscle. So I'm just going to talk about the extensor digital brevis um as it includes the extensor hupus brevis. So I've removed all the other muscles so we can take a closer look at this. So just looking at its origin you can see it originates superiorly and laterally on the calccanous. And if we look at it the insertion we can see the the first tendon of the extensor digital brevis inserts at base of the proximal thigh. And if I bring the rest of the muscles in, we can see the insertion point of the other three tendons on and you can see that they insert laterally on the tendon this these tendons. So these are the tendons of the extensor digtorum longus muscle. So the extens extensor digtorum brevvis muscle um inserts laterally on these tendons. So on these these three toes here, the extensor digital brevvis um inserts laterally on the tendons of the extensor digtorum longus muscle. So you might have noticed that there's no tendon um coming from the extensor digtorum brevis muscle to the little toe. It's just the medial four toes that there are tendons to. So this muscle extends the MTP joint and it's innovated by the deep fibular nerve.