Okay. So this is a tutorial on the muscles of the neck which line the anterior triangle. So the anterior triangle of the neck is defined by a few boundaries. So the anterior border of the sternocly mastoid, the midline and the inferior border of the mandible. So this is the anterior triangle we're looking at here. And there are several muscles which lie in this triangle. So you've got the supra hyoid muscles which lie above the hyoid bone and the infrayoid muscles which lie below the hyoid bone. So the infra hyoid muscles are known as strap muscles presumably because they look like a strap or I don't know something like that. Um so the super hyoid muscles lie above the hyoid bone and the hyoid bone is important because it serves as a point of attachment for several muscles. The muscles of the tongue attach to the hyoid bone and um it's important in swallowing. So there are four supra hyoid muscles. You've got the digastric, the stylo hyoid, the milo hyoid, this big fan-shaped one, and superior to this, you've got the geno hyoid muscle, which I'll show you in a moment. So the stylo hyoid muscle is this muscle here which connects from the styloid process of the skull to the um lateral surface of the hyoid bone lateral area of the body of the hyoid. So it's the name really gives away its origin and insertion which is quite useful. So it originates on the styloid process and inserts onto the lateral area of the body of the hyoid bone. So the hyoid bone lies at rest at the level roughly at the level of the base of the mandible and lies just a little bit above the thyroid cartilage. So several muscles attach here. So this this is the styloid muscle and obviously you've got these on both sides. So the next muscle is the digastric muscle. So this is this muscle which loops all the way here, attaches to the hyoid bone and also attaches on the inside surface of the mandible. So it attaches in the digastric fossa and also on the medial surface of the mastoid process. So the digastric muscle is called digastric because di means two and gastric means bellies. So it's a two-bellied muscle. You've got the anterior belly and the posterior belly. So the posterior belly originates on the medial surface of the mastoid process. and inserts via this tendon onto the hyoid bone and the anterior belly originates on the digastric surf um fossil on the inside surface of the mandible and inserts via the same tendon. So this muscle has um various actions depending on which bone is fixed. So the hyoid bone can move up and down and the mandible obviously has several movements. It can go protrude, retract, depress and elevate. So if the hyoid bone is fixed in place then the digastric muscle will act to open the mouth. So it'll pull the jaw the mandible down opening the mouth. So you can imagine this action if you have so the mastoid process is obvious obviously fixed. If the hyoid bone is fixed in place then the anterior belly of the digastric muscle will pull the jawbone down and open the mouth. If the mandible is fixed however and obviously the mastoid process is fixed then the digastric muscle both bellies will cause the hyoid bone to elevate. So it depends which bones are fixed. Um, so it's quite an unusual muscle because it has three attachments. So the next muscle is the myo hyoid. So I'm just going to rotate the model around and we're going to look at it from underneath. So you can see the digastric muscle. It lies inferior to the myo hyoid which is this fan-shaped muscle here. So this muscle forms the floor of the mouth. And this muscle can elevate the hyoid bone. So it's attached on the inside surface of the mandible um and it originates on the milo hyoid line on the mandible and it inserts obviously onto the hyoid bone. So these muscles um separate muscles blend in the midline and uh originate on the inside surface of the mandible on the milo hyoid line. So it lies superior to the digastric muscle and it supports and elevates the floor of the mouth and it also elevates the hyoid bone. So that's the myo hyoid muscle. So just superior to the myo hyoid muscle you've got the final muscle the super hyoid muscle which is the genio hyoid. So if I just remove the myo hyoid you can see there is a muscle a thin muscle which runs from the hyoid bone to the inside surface of the mandible again. So this muscle originates on the inferior mental spine of the mandible. So this is a little thing that lies on the inside of the inside surface of the mandible and it inserts onto the hyoid bone. So again the action of this muscle depends on which um which bone is fixed. So I'll just remove the myo hyoid on this side just so we can have a look. So we've got so you can see this this thin muscle. So it lies superior to the myo hyoid muscle on its medial medially. So you can see this muscle above it. This is a muscle of the tongue. This is the gossus muscle but ignore that for now. Just looking at this thin if we Yeah. So you can see this thin muscle running from the hyoid to the inside surface of the mandible. So it depends on which bone is fixed as to what the action of this muscle is. So if the hyoid bone is fixed then the go hyoid will open the jaw. It will pull it um downwards and inwards whereas if the mandible is fixed it will elevate the hyoid. So the word g go gen go geno refers in Greek or something to chin. So if you see the prefix geno refers to chin. So the goss this tongue muscle here attaches inside on the chin on the inside surface of the mandible. So the go hyoid runs from the inside of the mandible to the hyoid bone. So those are the four super hyoid muscles in the anterior triangle of the neck. So you've got the stylo hyoid, the digastric, the fan-shaped milo hyoid, and you've got the geno hyoid.