This is a tutorial on the posterior triangle of the neck. So the posterior triangle is bounded at the back by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle. Um anterly it's bounded by the posterior margin of the sternoccllyomomastoid muscle. So this muscle here. And at the base you've got the middle third of the clavicle. And at the apex of the posterior triangle, you've got this bit of bone behind the mastoid process. So this part of occipital bone. So again, there's several muscles which run through the posterior triangle. And I'm going to run you through these. So, just to start off with, um, we've got the scaline muscles, which, um, quite annoyingly aren't on this model, but these originate on the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and they insert onto the first and second ribs. So, you've got you've got three scaling muscles. You've got anterior, middle, and posterior scaline muscles. And I'll just flick over to a diagram to show you these, but they in they originate on the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae and run down through the posterior triangle to insert onto the upper and second ribs. So here we have the diagram of the scaling muscles. So you've got the anterior, the middle, and the posterior scaline muscle. So they originate on the transverse processes of the um cervical vertebrae and they insert onto the ribs. So the anterior scaline inserts on the upper surface of the first rib um anteriorly and you've got the middle scalen muscle which inserts a little bit posteriorly um just posterior to the groove for the subcravian artery on the upper surface of the first rib. And then you've got the posterior scaling which inserts onto the second rib on the again on the upper surface. So you can see by the uh origin and insertion of these muscles that these will elevate the ribs. So when they contract they'll draw the ribs upwards. Unfortunately they're not shown on this model but you can just visualize that they would run through the posterior triangle here. So the next muscle is the splenous capus. So this muscle inserts onto the back of the skull just behind the mastoid process and it actually inserts on the mastoid process as well but it's not shown on here. Um I'll just remove the trapezius muscle so you can see the origin. Um so the splenous capus originates on the um spinus processes of the vertebrae. So the uh spinus processes of C7 to T4 and it inserts onto the back of the skull um on the mastoid process and just below the superior nucal line on the occipital bone. So you've got obviously you've got one on either side and what this muscle does is it draws the head backwards when it contracts. So it brings the head backwards. If they if they're both contracting at the same time. If one contracts then it will rotate the head around but if both contract it will draw the head backwards. So that's the splenous capus. Also running through the posterior triangle, we've got the levator scapula. So this muscle, as the name suggests, elevates the scapula. So it originates on the upper surface of the scapula. Um, so the medial border of the scapula, the upper medial border, and it inserts onto the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. So it actually has four insertion points. It inserts onto transverse process of C1 to C4. So what this muscle does is it elevates the scapula. So that's the levator scapula. So the next muscle is the omo hyoid muscle. So this is one of the strap muscles. So if you watch the tutorial on the anterior triangle um muscles of the anterior triangle, you'll have seen that the omohyoid um inserts onto the hyoid bone lateral to the sterno hyoid and it has two bellies. It's got an inferior and superior belly. So the superior belly runs in the anterior triangle and the inferior belly runs in the posterior triangle. So it's the inferior belly that actually runs in the posterior triangle and there's a tendon which inserts it onto the clavicle and then it continues as the superior belly to attach to the hyoid bone. So that's the omo hyoid muscle and it originates on the upper board of the scapula. So it starts off here winds through the posterior triangle into the anterior triangle and attaches to the hyoid bone. So just to show you a quick diagram of that, you've got the origin of the omohyard on the upper border of the scapula and you've got the inferior belly running through the posterior triangle. You've got this intermediate tendon which actually attaches to the clavicle and then you've got the superior belly of the omohy which inserts into the hyoid. So what this muscle does is it draws the hyoid bone down so it depresses the hyoid. So those are the muscles of the posterior triangle of the neck. Um while we're here, you can see you can see these muscles here which lie in front of the vertebra. Um and these muscles are the prevertebral muscles. So I'm going to just quickly show you the prevertebral and lateral muscles of the neck. So these are muscles which lie anterior to the vertebral bodies. And then you've got some lateral muscles which I'll show you. So I'll just flick over to a different view. So here I've taken away the strap muscles, the esophagus, the trachea, and we're just looking anteriorly at the vertebra. And we can see the prevertible muscles sitting on on top of them. So the prevertebral muscles flex the neck and flex the head and the lateral muscles um flex the head laterally. So the three vertebral muscles you've got the longest coli and you've got the longest capus. So the longest capus inserts onto this onto the inferior surfaces of the um occipital bone. So the basil part of the occipital bone just immediately anterior to the fammen magnum. So that's the longest capus insertion point and they originate on the transverse processes of the um cervical vertebrae. So vertebra C3 to C6. So this is the longest capus originating on the transverse processes of C3 to C6 and inserting onto the basil part of the occipital bone immediately anterior to the framen magnum. So I'll just highlight that and you can see that. So that's the longus capus. So again you can visualize the function of this muscle. So because they originate in a transverse process and insert here when they contract they bring the head downwards. So they flex the head. So that's the longus capus which flexes the head and that's one of the prevertebral muscles. And then you've got this muscle here which is the longus coli muscle. So what this muscle does is that it flexes the neck anterly. So this muscle has three parts. It's got a superior inferior oblique part and a vertical part. um and it has various origin and insertions on the anterior parts of the vertebral body and the transverse processes um of the vertebra. So what it does is that it flexes the neck anterly and laterally and it gives slight rotation um to the opposite side. And then next you've got the rectus capus muscles. So these muscles I'll try and get a good view of them. So it's this muscle here. So this you've got the rectus capus anterior and you've got the rectus capus um lateralis. So here you can see we're at the level this this vertebrae here is the atlas bone. So the first cervical vertebrae. So the rectus capus anterior originates on the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas bone and inserts onto the basil part of the occipital bone. So it flexes the head at the atlanto occipital joint. So you'll see the word rectus used a lot in anatomy and it's just Latin for straight. So it's a straight muscle. You've got the rectus abdominis muscles and you've got the rectus muscles of the eye. Um, and capus means of the head. So, it's straight muscle of the head and it's the anterior one because it lies anterly on the atlas bone. So, then you've got the rectus rectus capus lateralis because it lies laterally on the superior. So this muscle um is shown a bit out of place on this model, but it actually lies on the superior surface of the um transverse process of the atlas um and inserts onto the occipital bone. Um and what this muscle does is it flexes the head laterally on the same side. So that's the rectus capus lateralis. So there you go. That's the prevertible and lateral muscles. You've got the rectus capus muscles. So the rectus capus lateralis, you've got the rectus capus anterior. And then you've got the prevertebral muscles. You've got the longest capus and the longest coli.