 diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet, diet diet, diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet diet muscles of the posterior compartments of the thigh and the leg. The superomedial boundary of the poplateral fossa is formed by the distal ends of the semimembranosus and the semitendinosus muscle. Remember, membranosus is medial, tendinosus sits on top. Superolaterally, the boundary is formed by the biceps femoris muscle. The inferomedial boundary is formed by the medial head of the gastronemius. The inferolateral boundary is formed by the plantaris and the lateral head of the gastronemius muscle. In terms of the floor, it's comprised of the capsule of the knee joint and the oblique poplateral ligament, as well as the fascia of the poplateral muscle and the poplateral surface of the femur. In terms of the roof of the poplateral fossa, this is formed by skin, superficial fascia and deep fascia. The most important structure to remember with regard to the roof is the small saphenous vein. The small saphenous vein passes through the roof. It receives its blood supply from the dorsal venous arch of the foot and passes between the heads of the gastronemius muscles to drain into the poplateral vein. Now let's take a look at some of the contents of the poplateral fossa. So it contains four main structures. The poplateral artery, the poplateral vein, the tibial nerve and the common peronyl nerve. The tibial nerve and the common peronyl nerves are branches of the sciatic nerve. I've just removed the medial head of the gastronemius here and you can see how the tibial nerve leaves the poplateral fossa and passes underneath the plantaris muscle to enter the posterior compartment of the leg. The common peronyl nerve leaves the poplateral fossa by following the tendon of the biceps femoris. It winds around the neck of the fibula to enter the lateral compartment of the leg, branching into the superficial and deep peronyl nerves. The common peronyl nerve is susceptible to injury or compression as it winds over the fibular neck, which can result in foot drop. The poplateral artery is the deepest structure in the poplateral fossa. It's a continuation of the superficial femoral artery and divides into the tibial peronyl trunk and the anterior tibial artery. The poplateral vein is superficial to the poplateral artery and exits the poplateral fossa superiorly, passing through the adductor hiatus within the adductor magnus muscle to enter the anterior compartment of the thigh. It receives blood from the anterior and posterior tibial veins and drains to the femoral vein. So that's the anatomy of the poplateral fossa. If you found it helpful, give the video a like and subscribe to the channel. Thanks for watching.