Okay. So this is a tutorial on the glenoumeral joint. So the glenoumeral joint is as the name suggests is a um a joint between the head of the humorus and the glenoid cavity of the scapula. So you can see the glenoid cavity of the scapula here. Um so this joint is a sinovial ball and socket joint and it's quite an unstable joint because the head of the humorris is relatively large whereas the glenoid cavity of the scapula is actually quite shallow. So it's very mobile because of this relationship between the shallow glenoid cavity and the large hummeral head. So because of this instability it's actually a very mobile joint. So at this joint we have several movements. We've got flexion and extension. We've got abduction and adduction. We've got internal rotation or medial rotation and we've also got external rotation. And we've also got circumduction which is a combination of flexion, extension, abduction and adduction. So there's a lot of movements at this joint. So I've just brought the muscle layer in and you can see some of the muscles which surround this joint and actually add a bit of stability to it. So you've got this deltoid muscle here. Um you've got the pectoralis major at the front anteriorly. You've got the long head of the biceps which comes up and um goes over the granoumeral joint and adds a bit of stability there. Um at the back you've got the long head of the triceps tendon and you've obviously got the rotator cuff muscles which are crucial in maintaining stability of this joint. Um and you al also got the terra major and latisimus dorsai muscles. Um so apart from the muscles you've got extra capsular ligaments which surround the joint and you've got bony processes. Um so you've got um the acromian process and you've got the corocoid process. Um so all these different things add stability to the to the glenoumeral joint. So we'll start off by taking a look at the glenoid cavity. So I'll just remove the humorus. So we're looking laterally now um at the right shoulder. So I'll remove the humorus and we'll take a look at the glenoid cavity. So this is the glenoid cavity of the scapula. Um and it's not shown on this model but the the margins of this glenoid cavity are surrounded by a f a fibrocartilagynous collar called the glenoid labum. So this sits around the um the perimeter the margins of the glenoid cavity and actually um adds a bit of depth to the glenoid cavity. So I've just switched over to this diagram here and we're looking at the same view a lateral view of the right shoulder. So you've got the acchromian posterly and the corocoid process anterly. So you can see this this fibrocartilagynous collar, the glenoid labum surrounding the glenoid fossa. Um and you can see superiorly this is the tendon of the um long head of the biceps and it's been cut. So this tendon is actually continuous with the glenoid labum and it runs over the glenoumeral joint and adds a bit of stability to it. So I've just switched back to the model and I've isolated the long head of the biceps muscle. So you can see this running up on the humus in the in between the intertubercular sulcus and it runs over the glenoumeral joint and you can see it attaching uh to the supra glenoid tubicle. So this this tendon at its origin is continuous with the glenoid labum which I showed you in that previous diagram. So just like in many other joints there's a joint capsule which surrounds the gleno hummeral joint. So the joint capsule consists of a fibrous and a sinovial membrane. So the the fibrous membrane wraps around the glenoumeral joint. So it wraps around um the outside of the glenoid labum and it actually encloses the head of the uh the origin of this this tendon. So I've just switched back to a diagram. So the the so we've seen this diagram before. So the fibrous um membrane of the joint capsule actually encloses the labreum and encloses the origin of the long head of the biceps tendon. So this diagram here just shows the joint capsule itself. So you can see see it enclosing the glenoid um gloumeral joint and you can see its attachment on the anatomical neck of the humorus. So lining the fibrous membrane you've got the sinovial membrane and it's important to just mention the sinovial membrane because the sinovial membrane at various points actually protrudes through the fibrous membrane and it forms bersai which are um sort of cushions of fluid lined by sinovial membrane which sort of act to reduce friction and to cushion the joint. Um so the bersai are quite important to be aware of because they can get inflamed and cause pain in the shoulder joint. So I'll just mention a few of these bersai quickly. So um medially the sinovial membrane protrudes through the fibrous membrane and it forms the subtendonous bersa of the subscapularis or the subscapularis bersai bersa. And I'll just flick over to the 3D model in a moment, but I'll just mention this first. So, you've also got um a sinovial sheath which wraps around the um long head of the biceps tendon as it passes through the inter tuberccular sulcus between the greater and lesser tubicles of the humorris. So, you can see this sinovial sheath here. So, this just reduces friction of this tendon. So we'll just take a look at a couple of those bersai that I mentioned. So looking here, we can see the the tendon of the subscapularis inserting onto the lesser tubicle of the humorus. So I'll just remove that. And you can see the bersa that lies underneath. So I'll just remove the uh this biceps tendon and the coracco brachiialis muscle and you can see this bersai sorry bersa bersai is plural bersa is singular. So you can see this um bersa which sat underneath the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. So this is the subtendonous bersa of the subscapularis. So this is formed by a protrusion of the sinovial membrane through the fibrous membrane. So we've also got a few other bersai. So this big large bersai here bersa um is the subacchromial and subdeltoid bersa which sits obviously under the acchromian process and between the deltoid muscle. And this is quite important. can get inflamed because of the very narrow space between the acromian and the head of the humorris. You've also got this bersa which sits on top of the acchromian and lies between the skin and the acchromian. Um you've got a small little bersa which lies underneath the corocoid process. So you can see the corocoid process here and the little bersa sits underneath it. Um and then you've got bersai which sit um in relation to the rotator cuff muscles. So you've got a a bersa here as well. Um but it's important to beware be aware of the subocchromial and sub deltoid bersai and the um subtendous bersa of the subscapularis muscle. So just going back to this diagram again. So we're looking at the joint capsule of the um granoumeral joint. So the fibrous membrane of the joint capsule is thickened to form ligaments which support the joint. So we'll take a look at those ligaments now. So there are five ligaments you need to remember. So you've got three glenoumeral ligaments. um you've got the transverse hummeral ligament and the caraccoal ligament. So the glenoumeral ligaments um can be seen here but they're not really shown that clearly is they're not shown as distinct ligaments but you've got a superior middle and inferior gloumeral ligament and these attach um onto the lesser tubicle um and they they originate on the the margin of the glenoid cavity. So you've got a superior, middle, and inferior glenoumeral ligament. Uh next we've got this ligament here, which is the transverse hummeral ligament. And this attaches it attaches from the lesser tubicle to the greater tubicle. Um and this lies over the biceps tendon as it passes through the inter tub tubercular sulcus. And lastly, we've got this ligament called the caraccoal ligament because it attaches from the corocoid process to the humorris. Okay, so that's the shoulder joint. So just remember the articulating surfaces. It's a joint sinovial ball and socket joint between the head of the humorus and the glenoid cavity of the scapula. Um there's a joint capsule um which surrounds the joint. The sinovial membrane protrudes through the fibrous membrane to um to form bersai and to wrap around the biceps tendon long head of the biceps tendon. And you've got five ligaments. You've got the caraccoal ligament, the transverse hummeral ligament, and the three glenoumeral ligaments, superior, middle, and inferior. Um stability to the joint is provided by muscles. You've got rotator cuff muscles, pectoralis major, deltoid, long head of the triceps, uh long head of the biceps, teras major, and you've got bony processes. You've got the acchromian process, the corocoid process, and you've got um extra capsular ligaments providing stability. You've got several movements. You've got flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and external rotation, and circumduction. So, quite a lot to learn there actually. But I'll make another tutorial which will cover the sort of movements at the shoulder joint and the muscles that produce these movements.