Okay, so this is the first tutorial I'm going to do on the skull. Just going to do a couple of tutorials because there's quite a lot to talk about. So the skull consists of 22 bones, not including the oicles of the ear. And these bones are connected by sutures. So on this model, you can see these lines here on the skull. These are sutures, which are immovable fibrous joints which connect these bones together. So the skull consists of the cranium and the mandible. So the the mandible is this lower jawbone and the cranium is the rest of the skull. So the cranium can be divided into an upper part and a lower part. This tutorial will just be on the upper part of the skull. So the upper part contains the brain and it's referred to as the calvaria. The lower part of the cranium is the facial skeleton. So all of this and it's called the viscoranium. So that will be my next tutorial. So you've got six bones which make up the calvaria. The frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital, sppheninoid, and ethmoid bones. So six bones. So the frontal bone here, you can just about see the greater wing of the spphenoid here. Not just about you can see the greater wing of the spinoid here, but the rest of it I'll show you in a bit. The parietal bone is this large bone. Well, it's two bones. You got two parietal bones on either side which make up a lot of the side of the skull. And you've got two temporal bones on either side and then the occipital bone. You can see the ethmoid bone uh making up the medial wall of the orbit on both sides. So those are the six bones that make up the calvaria. First I'm going to talk about the frontal bone. So you can see this big bone here is the frontal bone and it's separated from the parietal bone by this suture. So this is the frontal bone. all of this and it makes up um the upper margins of the orbit laterally and medially. So just some things to point out. You can see these ridges here just above the orbit. Not so clear, but you can make them out. These arches here are called the supercillary arches. And they're more prominent in males than females. And this angle here is quite good because you can see this little depression where the superillary arches meet. This is called the gabella. So that's the frontal bone. Next I'm just going to talk about the parietal bone. And you've got two parietal bones. So you've got two parietal bones and two temple bones. The rest are single bones. So the occipital, frontal, sppheninoid and ethmoid are single bones. Parietal bones are paired and temporal bones are paired on either side. So this big parietal bone makes up a lot of the lateral wall of the skull. And you can see at the front it articulates via the suture with the frontal bone and posteriorly it articulates via this suture with the occipital bone. Inferiorly, it articulates with the temporal bone via this suture. And it also articulates with the greater wing of the sppheninoid via this suture. So I'll just show you show you from the top what that looks like. So you can see this suture down the sagittal plane. So it's called the sagittal suture and the two parietal bones articulate via that. So those are the parietal bones, big bones on the side of the skull. So the next bone I'm going to talk about are the temple bones which as I showed you before and explained are on both sides. So the temple bones, this bone here and there's quite a few things to point out on the temple bones. You've got um a squamus part which makes up part of the lateral wall of the skull and you've got a petrus part which you can see um inferiorly and I'll show you that in a second. So the squamus part is just this flat bit. Squamus just means flat. You've got squamus cells which is squashed flat cells. So this squamus part is the large flat bit which forms the lateral wall of the cranium. And this articulates anteriorly with the greater wing of the sppheninoid and posteriorly with the um pietal bone and the occipital bone down here. So just here you can see this process which is called the mastoid process. Um and this is quite important because a few muscles attach here. Uh most notably the sternocly mastoid has an attachment there. Just show you that. So you can see this big sternocly mastoid attaches there and you've got this muscle here digastric muscle and couple. So that's the mastoid process. And if you look from the back you can see this little notch here which is the mastoid notch. Also, you've got this process sticking out here, which is called the zygomatic process of the temple bone because it well because this is the zygomatic bone and it sticks out towards that. Then you've got the this hole here which is the external acoustic miatus. It's a little hole So you've got the squamus part, the mastoid process, the zygomatic process, and this external acoustic opening miatus. Um, so I'll just rotate this round so you can now see the petrus part of the skull. So the petrus part of the skull um well if you just look at the temporal bone you can see it runs all the way around here and it's all of this bone So that's the mastoid process. We've also got this little pointy thing which is the styloid process. So from the inferior view which I'll just so this um from this inferior view this is the petrus part of the temporal bone and this houses the inner and middle ear. So just have a look at that. Rotating around can see exactly how the how the temple bone works. So this base the temple bone on the inferior aspect is the petrus part. The next bone I'm going to talk about is the sppheninoid. And this bone um confused me quite a bit when I was learning about it. Um so from this lateral view of the skull, you can see the greater wing here. And you can see the greater wing on either side, but you've only got one sppheninoid bone. Um the sppheninoid connects in the middle via body, which you can't see here. Um I'll show you in a second. So the spphenoid in the middle, it's got the body. It's got the greater wings which you can see um laterally from outside the skull and it's got two lesser wings which I'll show you and you can see them from inside the skull and then it's got two tergoid processes inferiorly which point downwards. So what you need to know about the sphenoid is that it consists of a body, two greater wings, two lesser wings and two tergoid processes. So the best way to show you it is again to if if you follow it as I rotate the skull inferiorly. You can just keep an eye on the greater wing here. And as I rotate it round, you still see the greater wing here. So greater wing rotating it round. And you can see these this pointing downwards. These are the teroid processes and you've got them on both sides. See here the terragoid processes sticking downwards. Greater wing and then the terragoid process is pointing downwards. So what you've got here, you've got a lateral plate of the terragoid process and a medial plate of the terragoid process. And this little hook thing that you can see is called the hamulus. And in between terod processes, you've got the body, the body of the sppheninoid, which I'll show you from inside an inside view.