So um next we've got the little lacrimmal bones. So these are those the tiny bone that lies here. So anteriorly you've got the maxilla and then you got the sppheninoid bone, the zygumatic bone and the frontal bone. So you can just see if I zoom in a bit more you can just see this. This is the lacrimal bone here. this little bone. Got it on both sides obviously. So there's the paired lacrimal bones. So I've talked about the nasal bones, the maxilla, the zygomatic bones, the bones that you can see through the purform aperture, the um inferior nasal conchure on both sides. I didn't talk about this bone here but this is the vulma and I'll just come on to show you that now. Um so you can see the vulmer through here but I think I think I'll rotate around to a different view and show you the other two bone uh the other bone the palatine bone. Um so I'll just switch the view around. Okay. Oops. Okay. So, if we look inferiorly, so I'm rotating the skull around. So, we're looking from the bottom of the skull now. Okay. So, if you just see what I did, I just rotated the skull so it's tilted backwards. And now, if we just look look at the keep keep your eye on this maxilla bone. And you can see as you rotate it around, we're just looking at the underside of the maxilla just there. So here this is this whole structure here is the hard pallet. So you can feel this in yourself. If you put your tongue to the roof of your mouth, you can feel your hard pallet. And if you move your tongue posteriorly, you can feel the soft pallet which is um made up of soft structures. So this whole structure is the hard pallet and it consists of two bones. Um this anterior part here is the is made up of the maxilla and then this posterior part is is the palatine bone and this is another bone of the facial skeleton. So you've got left and right palatine bones um and anteriorly you've got the maxilla but this whole structure is the hard pallet. So the hard pallet consists of the maxilla and palatine bones. So if we just take it if you just remember I was talking about the vulmer we can see oh if I rotate it round you can see oh have I done get that view back. Um so if you just zooming in a bit you can see something that's extending backwards from the palletine bone and this is the vulmer um which you saw through the purform aperture. So this bone here is the vulmer and I think a good way to sort of visualize and understand this bone is by showing coming from behind and having a look. So try and so just looking at the vulmer from here you can see I'm just going to rotate it round and we're going to have a look posteriorly. So you can see that this is the vulmer here and then you can see the palatine bones and the maxilla which makes up the the the hard pallet this whole structure here. So the posterior part is the palatine bone and then you can see the how the vulma sits on top of the palatine bone and it extends backwards like that. So just rotating round again. So you can see the vulmer here and rotating completely to posterity. You can see how it separates the separates these two ovalshaped um openings and these are known as the posterior um nasal apertures or the coani and this is the opening into the nasop fernx from the nasal cavity. So that's that's the vulmer and you can see it here sitting on the palletine bones and extending all the way around to here. So just to recap what I've gone through um the bones of the facial skeleton you've got the nasal bones the maxilla the zygomatic bones on either side and then you've got the bones which you can see through the pform aperture the inferior nasal conchure conchi which are part of the maxilla the vulma and the palatine bones And then it medially making up the medial wall of the orbit. You've got the lacrimal bones on either side. So you can remember these um bones of the lower skull with the pneummonic Virgil cannot make my pet zebra laugh. Um so that's fuloma conchi nasal maxilla mandible palatine sygomatic and lacriml but remember that the mandible isn't actually part part of the facial skeleton it's just included in pneummonic to help you remember bones of the lower skull. So, that's that's that covered covered all the bones of the skull. And hopefully um having a good look at those has helped you remember them.