Okay. So, in this tutorial, we're going to take a look at the spinal pathways. So, we're going to look at the different tracts that ascend and descend in the spinal cord. So, what what we're looking at here is a cross-section of the spinal cord. And I just want to recap some basic anatomy of the spinal cord before going any further. So we're looking at a transverse section of the spinal cord. So this is at the level C8 and just the basics. So the eight- shaped gray stuff in the middle is the gray matter and everything peripheral to that is white matter. So you can see these different colored shapes lying in the periphery. And these colors just represent different bundles of ascending and descending white matter tracts. So you've got the gray Hshaped matter in the middle and the white matter peripheral to that where the ascending and descending tracts are located. So at the back you've got the dorsal horns and then at the front anteriorly you've got the vententral horns. In the center you've got the central canal and then you've got the dorsal median sulcus dorsally and the vententral median fissure anteriorly ventrally. So as I mentioned you've got these bundles which are known as faciciculi and in these bundles you've got axons which run either up towards the brain or down the spinal cord towards the periphery. So the axons in these faciculi are either carrying information up or down the spinal cord. So you've got ascending and descending tracts. So these tracks are also referred to as faciciculi which is just Latin for small bundles. So tracts which have similar function and go to and come from similar places are organized into these small bundles. Ascending tracks carry sensory information from the periphery to the brain. Whereas descending tracks carry information from the brain to the periphery. So what kind of information do the ascending tracks carry? Well, if we think about what kind of information is presented peripherally to our senses, we can think about the different modalities of sensation which might be conveyed from the periphery up towards our brain for processing and response. So ascending tracks carry information including pain, temperature, tactile information which ranges from coarse touch to fine touch as well as vibration information. And you've also got information for muscle and joint receptors. So at this point it's worth mentioning that not all sensory information is consciously interpreted. So information that is consciously processed and consciously experienced is conveyed to the cerebral cortex via these pathways. Whereas the other information which isn't consciously processed and never actually reaches the level of our consciousness reaches different areas in the brain. So it doesn't go to the cortex. It goes to other areas like the cerebellum with propriceptive information. So information from muscle and joint receptors. So why do we make this distinction between pathways that carry consciously processed information and pathways that carry subconsciously processed information? Well, the answer is that the consciously processed pathways have this similar format of three neuron sequence. So you have a first order, a second order and a third order neuron. So the first order neuron is known as the primary aphrant neuron and this brings information from the periphery into the spinal cord via the dorsal horn. So this primary apherrant first order neuron has its cell bodies contained in the dorsal root ganglen. So what's important to know about the primary affrant neuron or the first order neuron is that it remains ipsilateral. So ipspsilateral just means on the same side. So ips in Latin means the cell for the same. So ipspsilateral just means same side. So the first order neuron terminates either by forming a sinapse in the dorsal horn of the gray matter of the spinal cord with the second order neuron as I'm showing you on the left hand side here. So this second order neuron then crosses over to the other side of the spinal cord and ascends all the way to the phalamus where it forms its signapse with the third order neuron. So on the right hand side of the screen you can see the other path that the first order neuron takes. So it enters the dorsal horn and then it can ascend up into the medulla where it forms its sinapse with the second order neuron. So again this second order neuron crosses over the midline and ascends up on the other side to the phalamus where it terminates by forming a sinapse with the third order neuron. So it's important to know that first order neuron remains ipsilateral and it terminates by forming a sinapse with the second order neuron and this termination can either occur in the gray matter of the spinal cord or in the medulla oblongata. So both these terminations have been demonstrated on this diagram here. And then just as I've showed you the second order neuron in red crosses over to the other side of the spinal cord or the other side of the brain stem in the medulla oblongata and this crossing over has a fancy name which is known as decassation. So the second order neuron decassates crosses over to the other side and then it ascends to the phalamus and this is where it forms a sinapse with the final third order neuron. So I'm just drawing this third order neuron in blue. And this third order neuron has its cell body in the phalamus and its axons pass to the semato sensory cortex where the peripheral sensation is consciously perceived. So that's hopefully introduced you to the idea of first, second and third order neurons and the idea that primary aent neurons or first order neurons remain ipsilateral. They signups with second order neurons which decate and ascend contrlaterally. So contrateral means on the other side and then they terminate in the phalamus with synapses with the third order neuron which projects to the semata sensory cortex for the perception of that peripheral stimulus. So next what we're going to do is take a look at a section of the spinal cord and the different ascending and descending tracts which run within the spinal cord.