Okay. So, this is a tutorial on the spinal column. Um, I'm also going to be doing one on the structure of the vertebrae and then the morphology of the different segments of the vertebral column. So, how to identify the cervical vertebrae, the thoracic vertebrae and the lumbar vertebrae. Uh, but this one will just focus on the spinal column. So, it'll be quite a short basic uh tutorial. So here we've got um this is anterior here and this is posterior here. Um so the vertebral column consists of 24 articulating vertebrae and then you've got uh the sacrum and the coxix which are fused vertebrae. So up here you is the cervical uh vertebrae and you've got seven cervical vertebrae. These are 12 thoracic vertebrae which articulate with the ribs. five lumbar vertebrae and then you've got the sacrum here. Just zoom in a little bit on that which consists of five fused vertebrae and then you've got the coxix which consists of uh three to five fused vertebrae. Okay. So in between each vertebrae you've got an intervertible disc. Um, and this the function of the intervertible disc is really uh to absorb shock. So, I'll just take a look at one of those bit closer. Just get rid of that. Click there. So, here you can just zoom in a bit. Um, this is an invertible disc. It's not the best illustration, but basically you've got the outer annulus fibrosis, which is fibroartilage, and then inside is the nucleus pulposis. So the annulus fibrosis contains the nucleus pulposis, which is a sort of soft jelly like substance. Um and when you get a slip disc, the nucleus pulposis herniates out through the annulus fibrosis and it can press on the spinal nerves which gives rise to symptoms. And when you get this in the lumbar region, you can get sciatica. So just go back here. So you've got seven cervical vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae which articulate with the ribs, five lumbar vertebrae, uh sacrum and coxix which consist of fused vertebrae. So it's important to know about um the vertebrae because they're often referred to when you're talking about anatomical landmarks and also when you're talking about spinal nerves. So the spinal nerves emerge from um the intervertebral foromomen which I'll talk about in um when I talk about the structure of the vertebrae in the next tutorial. But the spinal nerves are numbered according to the level which they emerge. So the cervical vertebrae are C1 to 5 C1 to 7 sorry because there are seven cervical vertebrae. thoracic vertebrae referred to as T1 to T12. Um the lumbar vertebrae referred to as L1 to L5. Um, one of the funny things is that although there are only seven cervical vertebrae, there are eight spinal nerves because the first cervical um, uh, so spinal nerve C1 emerges uh, between the first cervical vertebrae and the skull whereas the others emerge from the interverteable fammen. So you've got eight cerv cervical spinal nerves. So I'll just um bring in the some nervous tissue just so I can show you where they emerge. So look round up to the back so you can see how they emerge from in between each vertebra. So this if I just click on this one here, you can see that that is cervical spinal nerve C5. So it's important to know about these spinal nerves when you're talking about myo and dermatomes. Um and just going back to what I was saying about the anatomical landmarks. Um so for instance the angle of Louis is known to be at the level of um the junction of T4 T5 vertebral level T4T5 um and also the bifocation of the bifocation of the trachea. So you can see that is roughly at the level of T4 T5 and the can't quite see it but the arch the arch of the aorta is also known uh the beginning and end of the arch of the aorta uh is roughly at the level of T4 T5. So that's how vertical levels are used to identify anatomical landmarks. So that's a so they're a good thing to sort of know in that respect. Oops, just got rid of everything there. Okay. So, just a bit about the curves. You can obviously see that the spinal column is curved. Um, so you've got this cervical curve, thoracic curve, and the lumbar curve. And then you've got this pelvic curve which starts at the junction of the sacrum and the uh lumbar, the lowest lumbar vertebrae, and ends at the coxix. So, that's the pelvic curve. And so at birth you've got this one you don't have all these curves you've just got one fixed curvature which is primary curvature and then you develop the cervical and the lumbar curves um later in life which are known as the secondary curvatures. So the movement you get at each level um at the atlanto occipital joint which is where this vertebrae the first C vertebrae C1 is known as the atlas vertebrae C2 is known as the axis and the way of remembering the atlas if you know if you're familiar with Greek mythology um some Titan or something atlas known as Atlas uh had to carry the universe or something there's loads of pictures of uh this Greek Titan and carrying the world. So I guess the skull is the world and that's why the atlas is known as the atlas. Uh but anyway um this try and get the skull back so you can just see that. Okay, got everything back. But here this the ATL at this joint here I'll just show you sort of two joints. These two condaloid sinovial joints are known as the atlanto occipital joint. Um and at this joint you get um a nodding motion of the head. So flexion and extension. Um and you also get very slight lateral motion here. So this is the atlantox occipital joint. Um so the next one down is the axis and this articulates with the atlas above and here you get twisting left to right motion. uh just so the thoracic uh vertebrae you get rotation and you don't really get flexion or extension here because it's limited a lot by the the rib cage. So you just get rotation the lumbar vertebrae you get significant flexion and extension. You also get lateral flexion and you can get a tiny amount of rotation. So that's the spinal column. The next tutorials will be on the structure of the vertebrae. So I'll be looking in detail at all these different processes and how to label and identify the different parts of the vertebrae. Okay.