Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy Zone and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the sympathetic nervous system. So the autonomic nervous system is split into the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions. The sympathetic nervous system is often associated with the fightor-flight response and its main role is to respond to physical stresses on the body. This tutorial follows on from the previous tutorial I did on the basic aspects of the autonomic nervous system. To quickly recap the important points, we saw how the effrant component of the autonomic nervous system was different to the sematic nervous system as there is a two neuron sequence connecting the central nervous system to the peripheral nervous system. Whereas in the sematic nervous system there is a single neuron. This two neuron sequence involves a pre gangleionic neuron and a post gangleionic neuron. So let's just take a look at some of the anatomical aspects of the sympathetic We'll begin by taking a look at the effent outflow. So the effent sympathetic outflow originates in the lateral horn of the spinal cord from segments T1 to L2. The pre gangleionic neuron exits the spinal cord via the vententral horn much like in the sematic nervous system where the motor neuron exits via the vententral horn. And then on either side of the vertebral column you've got something which is known as the sympathetic trunk. This is a chain of ganglia which extends from the base of the skull to the coxix. So remember that ganglia are collections of neuronal cell bodies that lie outside the central nervous system. So these ganglia are the sympathetic ganglia and they're referred to as paraverteal ganglia as they lie on either side of the vertebral column. What we know from previous anatomy is that we've got the dorsal root carrying the sensory information into the spinal cord and we've got the vententral root carrying the effent motor information. And we also know that this bulge here is the dorsal root ganglen. And we've got the spinal nerve over here with the dorsal ramis and the vententral ramis. Now you can see that we have a few new structures over here. We've got these two branches leaving the vententral ramis. The white ramis communicans and the gray ramis communicans connecting to the sympathetic ganglen which is a part of the sympathetic trunk that I showed you earlier. So the neuron leaving the spinal cord enters the sympathetic ganglen through this white ramis. It's called white because the pre gangleionic fiber is mileelinated. Some of the pre ganglionic fibers form a sinapse with the post gangleionic neurons within the sympathetic ganglion and then they leave through the gray ramis and it's called gray because it's unminated. The post gangleionic neuron leaving via the gray ramis then joins back to the spinal nerve and it follows the spinal nerve to supply its target organ. So I've introduced you to some new structures here but things get a little bit more complicated. We've looked at one configuration whereby the pre gangleionic nerve enters the ganglen sinapses and leaves through the gray ramis to join the spinal nerve. But there are actually other things that can happen. So remember that the sympathetic outflow is from T1 to L2. So you've got regions above and below this where the pre gangleionic neurons can ascend or descend to. So for example, the sympathetic fibers which supply the head and neck ascend to the cervical ganglia and can from there supply the head and neck structures. And then you've got some autonomic fibers that have their own nerves. They don't join the spinal nerves. So autonomic fibers that travel within their own nerve are known as splanknic nerves. So you've got some pre ganglionic fibers which signapse in the sympathetic ganglen like I showed you before and then the post gangleionic neuron doesn't leave via the gray ramis and enter into the spinal nerve. It actually leaves by its own nerve and then you've also got some pre ganglionic fibers which bypass the sympathetic ganglen completely. It doesn't form any sinapse in this sympathetic ganglen. it actually leaves directly without forming a sinapse and sinapses in a peripheral ganglen near the target organ. So we've got four different configurations in this sense. We've got some pre gangleionic fibers which signapse at the same level. They enter via the white ramis signapse in the sympathetic ganglen leave via the gray ramis to join the spinal nerve. Then we've got those pre gangleionic fibers that ascend or descend to signapse at a different level. And then we've got some fibers which have their own nerves. They have splanknic nerves. And we've got two types. We've got ones that sinapse in the sympathetic ganglen and then have a post gangleionic neuron which leaves by its own nerve. And then we've also got pre gangleionic neurons which bypass the ganglen completely to form a sinapse in a peripheral ganglion. So in the next tutorial, we'll take a look at examples of how these different configurations are found in the body and we'll look at the different distributions of the sympathetic fibers.