 gethermodex, はい. Hi. This is Peter from AnatomyZone and in this tutorial we will take a look at the distribution of the sympathetic nervous system. In the previous part of this tutorial we looked at the basic structure of the sympathetic nervous system and the different configurations of the pre and post ganglionic fibers. Now I'd like to take a look at examples of these different paths that the sympathetic fibers can take in the body. The branches of the sympathetic chain have somatic and visceral distribution. So somatic relates to the skin and the body wall, and visceral relates to the internal organs. So each spinal nerve has a contribution from at least one grey ramus, and this supplies a segmental skin area with these sympathetic fibres. This setup is like the first example we looked at in the previous tutorial, where the sympathetic fibres leaves the ventral horn and enters the sympathetic ganglion via the white ramus, and then forms a synapse with the postganglionic neuron, which leaves via the grey ramus and travels in the spinal nerve to supply the skin. So this kind of sympathetic innervation provides three functions. It provides vasomotor, pilomotor and pseudomotor function to the skin. So vasomotor means that it vasoconstricts the arterioles in the skin. Pilomotor means that it supplies the erector pili muscles. So this pilomotor function causes hairs to stand on end when they contract. So pseudomotor means it supplies sweat glands. So three functions there. Pilomotor, vasomotor, pseudomotor. So you get this kind of configuration in which the skin is supplied by sympathetic fibres at every spinal level. Now next we'll take a look at the visceral distribution of the sympathetic nervous system. And this is where things get a little bit more interesting. Remember we talked about how the neuron could enter the sympathetic trunk and ascend or descend. This is the case for sympathetic innervation to the head and neck, and also to lower abdominal and pelvic viscera through sacral splanchnic nerves. Head and neck sympathetic fibres arise from the ganglia in the sympathetic chain. And these fibres supply the skin and the eyes. So the neuron ascends into the cervical ganglia, and then the postganglionic fibre ascends along blood vessels that go to the head and neck. So it kind of hitchhikes along these blood vessels which supply the head and neck structures. So the vertebral arteries and the internal carotid arteries. So coming onto the thoracic viscera, these are supplied by sympathetic outflow from spinal regions T1 to T4. And the organs in the thorax are supplied by various plexuses. So the preganglionic neuron for the thoracic organs enter the sympathetic ganglion. And instead of leaving by the grey ramus, and along the spinal nerve like the somatic supply, they leave in their own nerve. Remember that autonomic nerves that take off on their own like this, without travelling in a spinal nerve, are known as splanchnic nerves. So these nerves supply the heart and the lungs, and are therefore known as cardiopulmonary splanchnic nerves. It is important to note that these splanchnic nerves are postsynaptic. So the fibres arise after synapsing in the sympathetic ganglia. We will see in a moment how the abdominopelvic splanchnic nerves are preganglionic. These cardiopulmonary postsynaptic sympathetic fibres project by these splanchnic nerves to various plexuses and are then distributed to innervate their target organs. So you've got cardiac, pulmonary and esophageal plexuses. Now we will take a look at the case where the preganglionic fibre doesn't synapse in the sympathetic trunk at all. Instead it passes straight through it and forms a synapse in a peripheral ganglion. Again, these autonomic neurons are not travelling in spinal nerves, so they are known as splanchnic nerves. These splanchnic nerves supply the abdominal and pelvic viscera, and are known as abdominopelvic splanchnic nerves. They project a ganglia which are located in front of the vertebra, around the various branches of the aorta. You've got the celiac ganglia, the superior and inferior mesenteric ganglia, the aorticorenal ganglia, and the superior and inferior hypogastric ganglia. And you'll also hear these referred to as plexuses. So in terms of the splanchnic nerves, the abdominopelvic splanchnic nerves, you've got the thoracic splanchnics, the lumbar splanchnics, and the sacral splanchnics. Pelvic splanchnics are part of the parasympathetic nervous system. An easy way to remember that is sacral, sympathetic, pelvic, parasympathetic. Now coming back to the thoracic splanchnics. These are divided into the greater, the lesser, and the least. The greater thoracic splanchnic nerve arises from T5 to T9, and it synapses in the celiac ganglia. The lesser thoracic splanchnic arises from T10 to T11, and this synapses in the superior mesenteric and the aorticorenal ganglia. The least splanchnic nerve arises from T12 and synapses in the aorticorenal ganglia. In terms of the lumbar and sacral splanchnics, the lumbar projects to the inferior mesenteric ganglion and the sacral splanchnics project to the inferior hypogastric plexus. So there's actually a lot of intermingling of these fibers and plexuses, and there's a degree of variability. Different textbooks will say different things, but this is just to give you a rough idea of how the sympathetic distribution is set up. So once the preganglionic fiber has reached its pre-vertible ganglion, the postganglionic fiber then travels along corresponding blood vessels to innervate the target organs. So it's a good idea to get to know the blood supply of the abdominal organs in order to understand the innervation. So for example, the lesser curvature of the stomach is supplied by the left gastric artery. So the innervation to this lesser curvature will follow the same blood supply along the left gastric. And if we look at the liver, for example, you've got the common hepatic artery going into the proper hepatic and then dividing into the right and left hepatic arteries. And the innervation will follow from that celiac ganglion along this blood supply to supply the liver. Now more broadly speaking, you've got four gut structures which are supplied from the celiac ganglion, mid-gut structures supplied from the superior mesenteric ganglion, and hindgut structures like the descending colon sigmoid colon rectum supplied through the inferior mesenteric plexus. Now one thing I haven't mentioned yet is a special organ which sits on top of the kidney, and this is the adrenal gland. So the adrenal medulla of the adrenal gland is special because the preganglionic fibers directly innervate it. So the adrenal medulla itself is like a ganglion. So the preganglionic fibers pass directly through the celiac ganglion without forming any synapse, and then these fibers are in direct contact with the chromaffin medullary cells. So just like other preganglionic fibers, the neurotransmitter between the preganglionic fiber and the adrenal medulla is acetylcholine. So when activated, this stimulates the adrenal medulla to release adrenaline and noradrenaline directly into the circulation. So hopefully that's given you some idea about the distribution of sympathetic fibers in the body. Now what we haven't mentioned yet is the afferent component of the sympathetic nervous system. So we'll just cover this very briefly. So just like the somatic afferent fibers, visceral afferent fibers have their cell bodies located in the dorsal root ganglia. Now in terms of the path that these afferent fibers take to the CNS, it's probably best to think in terms of painful stimuli and non-painful stimuli. So afferents conveying painful stimuli travel with the sympathetic pathways that we've described. Non-painful stimuli pass with the parasympathetic pathways. And there's an exception to this rule. So in the pelvis, the upper part is like I mentioned, so visceral pain traveling with the sympathetic and non-painful stimuli travels with the parasympathetic. But in the lower pelvis, you've got painful stimuli and non-painful stimuli traveling with the parasympathetic component. So hopefully that's given you a good overview of the anatomy of the sympathetic nervous system. so hopefully that's my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite. I get my little bite.