 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomyzone, and in this tutorial we're going to take a look at the anatomy of the triceps muscle. The triceps muscle is the large fusiform muscle which forms the posterior compartment of the arm. The triceps muscle is biarticular as it crosses both the shoulder joint and the elbow joint, acting as an extensor at each joint, with the major action being at the elbow joint. As suggested by its name, the triceps has three heads and typically is twice the size of your biceps muscle, making up two thirds of the muscle bulk within your upper arm. So let's take a look at the origins of the individual muscle heads in turn. The long head of the triceps brachii originates from the infraglenoid tubercle. This is a small bump found at the base of the glenoid fossa of the scapula. The lateral head of the lateral head. The lateral head originates from the posterior surface of the humerus, superior to the radial groove. The radial groove, also known as the spiral groove, is this groove on the posterolateral surface of the humerus, where the deep branch of the brachial artery and the radial nerve run. The medial head lies deep to the other heads and originates from the posterior surface of the humerus, inferior to the radial groove. In terms of its insertion, distally, the heads of the triceps brachii converge onto a common tendon, which attaches to the proximal end of the olecranon of the ulna and blends with the fascia of the proximal forearm. The triceps muscle is innervated by the radial nerve, which is the terminal continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, arising from spinal root C6 to C8. It is worth noting that it has been shown that in some individuals, the long head of the triceps brachii is innervated by the axillary nerve. The triceps muscle derives its blood supply from the profunda brachii artery, which is the deep branch of the brachial artery. This vessel passes posterior to the humerus within the radial groove and between the medial and lateral heads of the triceps. The main function of the triceps muscle is extension of the forearm at the elbow joint. Because the long head crosses the shoulder joint, the triceps muscle actually has a small role in shoulder extension and shoulder adduction, although there are other muscles which are more important in these movements. For example, the latissimus dorsi and posterior fibres of the deltoid for extension, and the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi for adduction. In addition, the long head of the triceps has a role in stabilising the adducted humerus at the shoulder joint by helping to resist inferior displacement of the humeral head. The medial head of the triceps seems to be the muscle most involved with forearm extension, and it's believed to be involved at all ranges of motion and both with and without resistance. The lateral head is thought to be the strongest head, but in contrast to the medial head, it is recruited into activity against resistance. In terms of clinically relevant points, it's important to note that the radial nerve which supplies the triceps muscle can be injured with humeral fractures. Depending on the location of the fracture, this may weaken but not completely paralysse the triceps muscles, because the nerve branches innervating the lateral and long heads arise superior to the radial groove. A more distal fracture at the mid-shaft may therefore cause partial weakness, whereas a proximal injury may paralysse all of the three heads of the triceps. So that's the anatomy of the triceps muscle. If you've enjoyed the video, please give us a like and subscribe to our channel. Thank you for watching.