Okay, so this is a tutorial on some of the important veins of the body. So I'm going to start at the heart and then work outwards and talk you through some of the important veins that you should know. So this is the right atrium and this is the right ventricle of the heart and deoxxygenated blood returns to the heart to the right side of the heart via these by the via the venus system. So this vessel superior to the right atrium is called the superior vennea and below you've got the inferior vennea. So you can see the inferior vennea running all the way down to the pelvic region where it splits. So the superior venneava forms from these two branches. So you can see that this these vessels lie behind the clavicle. So this and the breast bone which I've removed here would lie anterly here. So the superior vennea is formed from these two veins which drain into it. And these are the brachioaphalic veins. So you've got the left sorry the right and the left brachioaphalic veins. This vein which arches over here and runs underneath the clavicle is called the subclavian vein because it runs underneath the clavicle. So sub underclavian referring to clavicle. So you've got the subclavian vein draining into the brachioaphalic vein which joins with the other brachioactic vein to form the superior vennea. And then you've got these two vessels here, these two veins which are coming down from the brain and the head. So this one which is more medial is the internal jugular vein and this one which is more lateral is the external jugular vein. So the internal jugular vein drains the brain and the external jugular vein drains the head and face. So these external jugular vein comes and drains into the subclavian vein and where the internal jugular vein drains into becomes the brachioalic vein. So this this where it drains into the subclavian it becomes the brachioaphalic vein. So you've got the subclavian vein here running underneath the clavicle becoming the brachioaphalic vein which joins with the other side to become the superior vennea. And then you've got the jugular veins the internal and external jugular veins. So following the veins over we come to look at the veins which drain the upper limbs. So you can see this this vein here. This drains into the axillary vein. So this region in the armpit region is the axillary vein. And you've got this vein, the capalic vein draining into the axillary vein. So where the capalic vein joins the auxiliary vein, it becomes the subclavian vein. So this is the axillary vein here. Also draining into the auxiliary vein, you've got these two veins. So this one is the brachial vein. This middle one here and this is a deep vein. This one here is the basilic vein and this where these two veins meet you get the auxiliary vein. So the auxiliary vein runs from here to the point where the capalic vein drains into it. So if I just put in the muscle layer, you can see what I mean by this vein being deep. So you can see this vein here is the um deep brachial vein and you've got the two superficial veins, the basilic vein and the capalic vein. So I'll just put the muscle layer in. So you can see that you've got the capalic vein which runs superficially and this basillic vein which is also superficial but the brachial vein here runs deeply. So this deep brachial vein. So just working our way down the limb you can see this vein which joins the kealic and the basilic veins. So this is the median cubital vein and this joins links up the capalic and the basilic vein. So just to put the muscular system in again to give you an idea of where these veins run. So you can see this is a superficial vein which connects the superficial capalic and the superficial basilic veins. So when you're taking blood from a patient, these are often the veins you take blood from. The capalic vein here, the median cubital vein and this basillic vein. So just removing the muscular system again. So this is the brachial this is the brachial vein. The vein that branches off the axillary and runs deeply. So you can see that it has two tribute tributaries. You've got the radial vein and the ulna vein. And these are deep veins also. So they run deep under the muscle layer. So the brachial vein is formed by the joining of the radial and the ulna vein which run on the radial side. So the radial vein runs down the radial bone and the ulna vein runs down the alna bone hence the name. So just to quickly go over that again, you've got the subclavian vein which has the capalic vein which uh drains blood from the axillary vein. So you've got the axillary vein going into subclavian vein going into the brachio capalic vein going into the superior venneava. Joining the axillary vein you've got three branches. You've got the capalic vein which is a superficial vein and you've got the basilic vein which is a superficial vein and then you've got this deep vein which is the brachial vein. So the capalic and the basilic veins run all the way down the arm. So you can see it running all the way down here and they're superficial along their entire course. So the and the bas basilic vein on the medial side running all the way down and it's superficial. The brachial vein which runs deep splits here. So it's formed from the radial and the ulna veins which are deep and it the radial and ulna veins run down the respective bones. So the radial and alna bones and they join to form these palmer arches. So you've got a deep and a superficial palmer venus arch which are formed by the radial and the alnner veins. So you'll be able to see the which one's superficial if I rotate it around. So you can see this arch here and if I rotate it around you can see that it's closer to the surface. So it's super the superficial venus arch and you've got the deep um palmer arch palmer venus arch. So if I just put in the muscle layer again, you can see this clearly the the this superficial palmer venus arch formed from the deep radial and on the veins and then you've got the deeper palmer venus arch here. So the superficial veins which I showed you the basilic vein which runs all the way down and it winds onto the back of the hand the dorsom of the hand and the same happens with the capalic vein. So this capalic vein which comes all the way down the arm and then winds around onto the back of the hand. So you can see that they you can see they're coarse. So the medial vein here which is the basilic vein and the lateral one the c the capalic vein they form this dorsal venal venus plexus on the hand. So this is often a site for canulation of patients. So that's the venus drainage of the upper limbs. Um, it's a little bit more complicated than