 Hi, this is Peter from Anatomy zone and in this clinical anatomy video we'll be learning about the pathology of a subarachnoid haemorrhage. This machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine machine Understanding the anatomy of the arachnoid martyr is key to understanding the mechanisms and pathology of subarachnoid haemorrhage. The arachnoid martyr is the middle meningeal layer and gets its name from its spiderweb-like appearance. Here you can see that there are thin filaments known as arachnoid trabeculations which traverse the subarachnoid space and blend with the peer martyr. The arachnoid layer is a thin, transparent membrane which serves to cushion the central nervous system. Unlike the innermost layer, the peer martyr, it doesn't follow the gyral and sulcal contours of the brain and provides a loose-fitting covering. Between the arachnoid martyr and the peer martyr is the subarachnoid space. This is a normal anatomical space that is filled with cerebrospinal fluid and also contains cerebral vasculature. Damage to one of these vessels can therefore fill the subarachnoid space with blood and this is what a subarachnoid haemorrhage is. When blood gets into the subarachnoid space, it irritates the adjacent meningeal layers. This irritation gives rise to the classical triad of symptoms of meningism which includes neck stiffness, photophobia and headache. Meningism is not specific for blood within the subarachnoid space and can be caused by anything which inflames or irritates the meninges and is also commonly associated with bacterial meningitis. Subarachnoid haemorrhage can be traumatic or spontaneous. Most cases of subarachnoid haemorrhage are due to trauma but of the spontaneous or non-traumatic causes, by far the most common cause is rupture of an intracranial baryaneurism. These make up approximately 85% of the cases of spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage. An aneurism is a dilatation or bulging of the wall of a blood vessel. This pathological dilatation weakens the vessel wall and it can rupture, leaking blood into the subarachnoid space. I've just switched to a model demonstrating the major intracranial arteries. If I rotate to an inferior view, you can see the circle of Willis and its main branches. A baryaneurism is a saccular aneurism which most frequently occurs at the junctions between the major intracranial arteries at branching points from the circle of Willis. Here you can see an aneurism which is formed at the junction of the anterior cerebral artery and the anterior communicating artery. Like this aneurism that we see here, the majority of baryaneurisms are located in the anterior circulation, which arises from the carotid system, with the minority found in the posterior circulation, which arises from the vertebro-basilar system. Rupture of an aneurism is a potentially catastrophic and fatal event. A ruptured aneurism can be treated endovascularly by interventional radiologists who may use coils or stents to secure the aneurism, or by neurosurgeons who can stop the bleeding by clipping the neck of the aneurism. The second most common cause of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage which is worth knowing about is perimesoncophallic hemorrhage. As the name suggests, this is blood within the subarachnoid cisterns around the midbrain. In this type of subarachnoid hemorrhage, no cerebral aneurism is identified and the cause of bleeding is thought to be venous in origin. In cases of perimesoncophallic hemorrhage, blood will be seen anterior to the midbrain and the pons. Due to the suspected venous origin of the blood, prognosis in this type of subarachnoid hemorrhage is significantly better than hemorrhage due to a ruptured arterial cerebral aneurism. There are several other much less frequently occurring causes of blood within the subarachnoid space. For example, arteriovenous malformations, inflammatory causes like cerebral vasculitis, and spontaneous bleed secondary to anticoagulation, among many others. So that completes this tutorial looking at the clinical anatomy of subarachnoid hemorrhage. For more detailed anatomy tutorials on these relevant topics, you can check out my tutorials on the meninges of the brain and the circle of Willis. If you have found this video helpful, hit the like button below and subscribe to our channel. Thank you for watching.