Okay. So, this is a tutorial on the joints of the wrist and the hand. So, we'll just take a look at um some of the features of these joints and look at the ligaments and kind of movements that occur at these joints. So, we'll start off with the wrist joint and we'll work our way distally through the various hand joints. Um so the wrist joint is this joint here between the radius and an articular disc um which lies at the end of the alna and it attaches to the base of the styloid process. So it's between the radius and an articular disc at the end of the ulna and between the proximal articular surfaces of these three carpal bones. So these scaffoid lunate and triquetal bones. So the wrist joint is a condoid sinovial joint. So you get flexion, extension, abduction, adduction and you get um circumduction which is a combination of all these movements. So abduction is movement in this direction. Adduction is movement towards the midline and flexion and extension. So flexion is up this way and extension is back this way. So it's just worth pointing out that the um the styloid process of the radius is actually it extends further um it extends more distally than the na styloid process. So this actually means that if that the wrist joint is more limited in its range of movement in abduction because the styloid process is longer and it um limits this movement a bit. So because of the uh more distal radial styloid process the hand cannot abduct um as far as it can adduct because the na styloid process over here um doesn't extend so far. So the the wrist joint is a radioarpal sinovial joint. So it involves the three carpal bones here the proximal carpal bones scaffoid lunate and triquetal. and it involves the distal end of the radius and there's an articular uh disc which lies over the ulna. So it's a radioarpal sinoal joint. So let's just quickly take a look at some of the uh ligaments in this area. So you've got collateral ligaments. Um you've got ligaments connecting the radius and the alna to the carpal bones. So you've got radioarpal and alnocarpal ligaments. And you've got um ligaments on both sides. You've got palmer and dorsal ligaments. And then you've got uh ligaments at the end of the radius and alna which connect the connect these two bones together. So at the end of um at the distal end of the radius and you've got this ligament connecting the bones on the palmer surface. So this ligament here is the palmer radial ligament. And if I just rotate the model around and we look at the dorsal surface, you've got the dorsal radio on the ligament. Then we've got the collateral ligaments. So we're looking laterally um at the wrist here. And you can see a ligament connecting the styloid pro um styloid process of the radius bone to the carpal bone. So this is the radial collateral ligament. Um and if we look so we're looking if we're looking at the medial aspect of the wrist you can see the alna styloid process connects to the um to the carpal bones. So this is the ulna collateral ligament. So we can just see um these ligaments here which run from the radius to the carpal bones and we're looking at the palmer surface. So these are the palmer radioarpal ligaments and likewise we've got um palmer alnocarpal ligaments. So these run from the alnner bone to the carpal bones. So if we just look at these in a in a little bit more detail. Um they can be broken down into two parts. Um so the the the palmer radioarpal ligament connects from the radius to the capitate bone. So that's called this this particular ligament is called radio capitate part of the palmer radioarpal ligament and then you've got this other part which connects um from the radius to the scaffoid and the lunate. So this ligament is called the radio scafol lunate part of the palmer radioarpal ligament. So it's the same with the the alnocarpal ligament, the palmer alnocarpal ligament. It's got two parts. One part connects to the uh lunate. So it's called the alno lunate part and the other part connects to the triquetal bone. So it's the alno triquetral part. So what you really need to take away from this part is just that there's um a radioarpal and an alnocarpal ligament and it's on the palmer surface. So it's pal palmer alo carpel and palmer radioarpal ligament and they have two parts. So if I just rotate the model around, we can just look at the back of the hand and there's only a um radio carpal uh ligament on the dorsal surface. So there's one dorsal radio carpal ligament. So those are the those are the joints that you uh sorry the ligaments that you have at the wrist joint. So you've got um you've got two collateral ligaments. You've got a radial and alna collateral ligament. You've got um you've got the uh the two two ligaments at the end of the um the distal end of the radius and na. So you've got the dorsal radial and the palmer radial ligaments. And then you've got on the palmer surface you've got palmer radioarpal ligaments and palmer alno cararpal ligaments which are broken into those two parts. And then on the dorsal surface you've only got a ligament connecting the radius to the carpal bone. So you've got a dorsal radioarpal ligament. So now we'll just look at um a few of the other joints that we have um in the in the hand. So after the wrist joint, we've got the uh carpal joints. So these are the joints between the proximal and distal row of carpal bones. And you can see here that there's quite there's quite a lot of ligaments here, but there's quite limited movement at this joint. Um but there is a little bit of movement and it helps to position the hand in abduction, adduction, flexion and extension. So those are the the carpal joints between the uh the various carpal bones. So then next we've got the joints between the carpal bones and the metacarpals. So these are called carpo metacarpal joints. So you've obviously got five of these joints. you've got um between the carpal bones and metacarpals and metacarpals 1 to5. So the first one is a very interesting joint. So this is the the joint between that is made at the thumb. Um so this is the joint between metacarpal one and the trapezium. And this is a saddle joint and it's much more mobile than the other two other joints between um metacarpals 2 to five and the carpal bones. So this is the this is the joint between the trapezium and metacouple one. Um and this is a saddle joint and it's a lot more mobile than the other other four joints. So you get flexion, extension, abduction, adduction and circumduction at this joint. Um and there's a little bit of rotation as well. So, it's important to remember that this is this joint is is particularly special and it gives rise to the mobility of the thumb. The other the other four joints in comparison don't really have that much movement. There's just a little bit of um a little bit of gliding movement at these joints. Um so the ligaments we have uh at in this area you've got um palmer carpo metacarpal ligaments and you've got um palmer metacarpal ligaments. So this is obviously the palmer surface. If I flick over to the other side um the dorsal view we've got the corresponding ligaments. So we've got dorsal carpo metacarpal ligaments and dorsal metacarpal ligaments. Okay. So so next we've got um these joints between the metacarpals and the flanges. So these are called metacarpal joints. So um these joints are condular joints. um and you get much more movements at these joints than the previous joints. So at the at the metacarpo falange joints you get flexion, extension, abduction and adduction and you can combine all these joints to produce circumduction and then you've got a little bit of rotation at these joints as well. So we'll just take a look at some of the ligaments at these joints. So the metacarpoil joints are actually quite straightforward. So what you've got to remember is that there's a palmer ligament, you've got medial and lateral collateral ligaments, and you've got um a deep transverse metacarpal ligament which links the palmer ligaments together. So it's not actually demonstrated very clearly on this model. So I'm going to I'm going to draw them on so that you can get a good idea of what I'm talking about. So what this the model here shows the joint capsule but um there's a ligament here called the palmer ligament um which sits like this and connects the the bones at the joint together. So this is the palmer ligament um I don't really need to draw on every single bone but I just have um and these palmer ligaments are connected by the deep transverse ligaments. So you can see these ligaments connecting the palmer ligaments together. Um, and you've got three deep transverse ligaments. And it's important to to note that there isn't actually one between between metacarpal 2 and one um because this would really restrict um restrict movement. And then on the sides of the on the sides of the the joint, you've got collateral ligaments. So you've got medial and lateral collateral ligaments. So just to run through that again, you've got a palmer ligament, you've got deep transverse ligaments which link the palmer ligaments together and then you've got uh collateral ligaments. So medial and lateral collateral ligaments and these help to reinforce the joint capsule. So finally we've got the interfallenal joints. So you've got two of these. So you've got a proximal interfallenial joint and a distal interfallenial joint. And the these are really easy to learn about because they've got the same setup as the metacarpoenial joints. So you've got the palmer ligaments which sit sit like this. Um and then you've got the collateral ligaments which lie either side. So you've got medial and lateral collateral ligaments. Um, and you don't get as much movement at these joints. Obviously, you've just got flexion and extension. So, they're simple hinge joints. So, that's the um joints of the wrist and the hand. Um, I hope that's made things a bit bit easier to understand for you.