 38. 38. 38. 38. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to ISSA Talk. We got a part two today. We're talking about recovery. If you tuned in before, you may or may not recognize me. I'm your host for today, Jenny Scott. I'm a master trainer and product developer here at ISSA. I'm so excited to be with you guys and to have our special guest, Yodi Richeson. Welcome, Yodi. Hi. Thanks for having me. Absolutely. So for those of you, again, who don't know her, she is a highly respected functional movement therapist who specialized in sports recovery for more than 18 years. She's worked with athletes all over the world, you guys, ranging from English and Irish cycling teams, UFC and MMA fighters, Olympians, CrossFitters, and even players from the NBA, the NHL, the NFL, MLB, and even golfers. The list could go on and on. It's really cool who she's worked with. And now she remains a sports recovery therapist for the Los Angeles Lakers. Yodi, you've got quite the resume, girl. Thank you. I worked hard for it. So again, we are picking back up on our recovery talk. We've made some great points in our first episode. Hopefully you guys checked it out. But Yodi, you ready to dive in? Let's do it. All right. So my first question for you today is when you're looking at somebody, when you're talking to somebody, how can you tell that they need more recovery? Well, one, listen, you know, hear what they're saying. And if they're having pains, if, you know, right when they walk in, I don't know about you, but when, when somebody walks into my session, I see things and whether it's a gate, you know, differential, they're holding their shoulder. There's always telltale signs. You just got to look and listen. Absolutely. I'm really big on that. I can pick up on stuff and say, Hey, is your hip bugging you today? And they're like, how did you know? I'm like, you got a little, like we talked about before, you got a little hitch in your giddy up over there. I'm all, you guys must be in the South. Right? I know. So a lot of people think that recovery though, is like we talked about before, like just a massage or it only happens after a workout. How do you change somebody's mind and tell them that recovery is more than that? How do you enlighten them? You know, the best way to enlighten them is by doing, you know, get one, get, you know, get with a recovery therapist and learn what they are doing. And you'll see that, you know, it's, it's from when the, when your people come in to train with you, what are they doing? Warmup is recovery, you know, and it's pre-recovery, but it's recovery, you know, and eating right, nutrition, recovery, all these factors that you teach in a personal training regimen is recovery as well as training. So we as professionals have to recognize that. How do we share that with the clients? Do we tell them or do we kind of sneak it in? What do we do? I think you tell them on a regular basis. It's like when you're teaching them about nutrition, you're telling them, you know, if you see something wrong with them, you know, you're going to tell them, Hey, have you, do you have a massage therapist? Do you have a recovery therapist? You know, are you doing anything outside of just training with me because I want to see you do well. So it's educating them, the client. Absolutely. I love that. You're all about educating yourself, but also educating others, which is a huge responsibility for a fitness professional. Exactly. We are blessed to know what we know. So why wouldn't we want to share it? A hundred percent. I agree. Now you work with a lot of like really high level athletes. How does their recovery differ that differ from somebody like your mom or an average client that you might see in the gym? You know, I don't think that it really does differ and not that much. It's like the only difference is they're, uh, well, with some of my people, their paychecks. So, but, um, they still have to do the work. You know, it's like, we have jobs where we go to and we sit at a desk 40 hours a week. They have jobs that they have to work harder than we do because they have to be physically active. I mean, I think about tennis in order for, I always think about tennis because in order for them to have a six hour tournament, how do you train your body for that? So it differs a lot. So they need recovery. You think they're going to get through a major tennis match without, uh, recovery and then having to play the next day or the day after, you know, so, um, how does it differ? Not much. It's just that they're playing at a higher level, but, uh, you need to get back to your office. You need to get back to your kids, your family, you need recovery. You can't be hurting from a training session. Yeah. So they just might do more of something, but the same stuff really. It's a, it's very much the same stuff. It's a, they're just doing it at a higher level in the sense of intensity. Like, uh, you know, the average person probably needs a couple of times a month where, um, or it depends on their injury or their level of activity and stuff like that. But, um, when you get into the high level athletes, they're looking at it, you know, some of my people come in three, four times a week, depending on, you know, if they're at tournament level, um, if they're at world championships, where are they at in their game? If it's, um, you know, uh, offseason, I'll see them maybe once a month, two, twice a month, you know, because they're not training as hard. So just on intensity of training. Absolutely. That, that actually answered my next question for you is how do you know what kind of recovery somebody needs? Like what protocol to use or how much, like, tell me more about that. If somebody is doing more work, they need more recovery. If they're doing less, they need less. What are your, what are your thoughts on that? It's like when you're training for a marathon, if you're going to be training for the marathon, you know, you build up to it. So it's the same with recovery. When you get closer to that, um, marathon, you're going to need me more. And it's like, even with pregnancy, pregnancy is its own marathon. So it's like when they get into their third trimester, I see them usually weekly, as opposed to when they're in the first couple of trimesters where I don't see them as regularly because they don't need me because their body's changing and developing the baby. But then as they get closer to the birth, the same as you get closer to your marathon, you need me more. Absolutely. What's the one thing that trainers aren't doing right now that they should be for recovery for their clients? That's a hard one because it's like, there's, there's so many different trainers and you know, some are doing it a hundred percent right. Some are just coming into the game. I don't think they're, I don't think anybody's doing anything wrong. I just think that they're, it's lack of education where they don't realize what they could do more of. So there's no wrong or right answer to that one. Yeah. And that makes sense. What I know of recovery, there's so many different techniques and everybody's different. So to say that this is going to work for all soccer players, this is going to work for all, you know, CrossFitters, it doesn't happen that way. Right? Nope. Sometimes what the CrossFitter needs is the same thing I do for a ballerina. I don't know. You know, I don't know. You don't know what you don't know until you know it. Yeah. And you kind of have to look at the person too. And like you said, look at their gait, look at the way they're moving, look at the injuries that they might have and how are they feeling today? That's, that's a great question to ask. Yes. And it's like, it's also the response. Don't ask a question just to ask a question, ask a question to hear the answer because that's how you're going to help them. Yep. You got to listen to make it right. That's awesome, Yodi. So what are we missing though? What do most people overlook when it comes to fitness and recovery? You know, I think sometimes what we think about is like, we look at the people's goals and what they're, they want to do and what they want to accomplish. And you don't build the Eiffel Tower in a day, you know, you have to put building blocks down. So it's, it's like letting, you know, hearing their goal, be excited for it, but also give them little bitty goals to get to. So they feel the accomplishments, but they're also still building the Eiffel Tower and, and recovery is a big part of those building blocks. So it's just about nobody, nothing's going to change overnight. So you just got to work at it and just be consistent. And like, you know, in some of the business classes I do, and like, you know, that I'm a total nerd when it comes to education, but it's like CPR. That's like the only thing I always hear is consistency produces results. So that's the main thing I like to teach all of my clients. It's like, yes, you want your shoulder better, but I've only seen you once. We have to work at this. You know, it's like, how long did it take you to hurt that shoulder? And why did you hurt that shoulder? So now let's get it back. But you've got to give me time to do what I can do. And you got to do your homework. So you're telling me that as a trainer, we progress their programs and we have to progress their recovery too. Yes. What's so bad about that? You want them to stay. Yeah. I mean, it makes sense though, Yodi. You're absolutely right. Especially when you said like, you didn't hurt your shoulder in one day, right? It's been repetitive injury or a repetitive issue. So it's going to take just as long, if not longer to repair it. That's, that's huge. That's a really cool point. It's like, you know, the picture, they wind up the ball. Now I got to unwind it, you know, it's like, you know, you throw up, it got to come down. So Yes. So again, we know that there's no one size fits all for recovery. There's no one technique that works for everybody, but what are some of your go-to or your favorite techniques and tell me why? You know, it's going to, again, depend on the client as well as the injury. You know, I'm a huge advocate for cryotherapy. I like cryotherapy. It dulls the, the pro-perceptors and lets them not feel the pain as much as it is. And then I can do a little bit of extra work when they thaw out a little bit. I like band work. We've talked about that numerous times. I love lacrosse balls. I love the hypervolt or Theragun, any percussion. I like cupping. I love static and dynamic cupping. I love active movement stretching. I'm a huge advocate for, and it's like, like I tell my clients all the time. I said, the reason you come to me to stretch you is because I don't feel your pain. And when you say, Oh, that hurts. It's like, I push a little bit more and then it's like, Oh, wow, I could do that. Yeah. You're totally right. Cause we, when we have a threshold for pain, we'll stop. Right. We do something more like, Oh, that hurts. We stopped. Somebody else will be like, Oh, that hurts. Yeah. Yeah. Keep going. You know, that makes sense. It's like, Oh, I'm sorry. Did I, did I do something wrong? No. But then it's like, then after they realized it's like, you know, like the biggest thing is pain you have to walk through. I mean, now mind you, if you have a limb broken and, you know, bones shattered through the skin, let's see a doctor. Let's get through that. You know, that's different, but I'm saying general pain. Um, you know, we're going to have achiness when we work out, but what's wrong with, you know, getting the blood flowing and movement again. And then all of a sudden you're like two weeks later, you're like, wow, like this is like an easy workout. I can do this. And it's because you're moving and you've got to keep moving. And that's all we're doing is just moving through this world. Absolutely. And I've heard you say it before in our previous conversations, move it or lose it. Right. Correct. Absolutely. Yeah. If you stop moving, it stops working. It really does. It truly does. It's like, think about, you know, it's like, think about when you have knee surgery, you used to lay in the bed six weeks. Now all of a sudden you're getting up and moving right away. Why? Because movement's a key. Like you have to do this. My mom had her knee replaced a couple of years ago and she was up moving the next day and she was surprised, but yeah, you know, C-sections, what do they want? They want movement in the body. You can't go home until everything's moving. So it's really important. And that's what recovery is, is just keeping people moving at the best of their abilities. So we know that there's been like a lot of new tools and things for recovery. You know, cryotherapy is relatively new. The concept is not, but the introduction to mainstream is. If you had a crystal ball, Yodi, where would you see recovery in about five years? I'm excited to be here in five years because the innovation that's coming through with people that are trainers, strength and conditioning coaches, massage therapists, because they're seeing problems. So five years, wow, it's going to be exciting. I think there's going to be more digital apps and different ways because people are actually, you know, the front liners are out there working with the people and they're seeing what the problems are. And instead of like trying to get around them, they're, they're inventing new ways of doing them. This is why you're coming up with, all these different things. Like, you know, we've talked about it before the voodoo band, great stuff, easy. Um, you know, even bands, Theragun, I told you about the mobility wall, which is going to be a phenomenal addition to the gyms as well as home gyms. And, um, I think much more people, because we're moving into the home world, I think a lot more people are going to be about recovery because they're only like, they only have their house to move in. So you gotta, you gotta make it work for you. You gotta be efficient and you've got to move correctly. So I think in five years, we're going to be amazed with some of the new inventions that are coming out there. Like I love to go, well, not right now, but normally like to the fitness conventions to see what's out there. And some of these people are coming up with some good stuff. So I can't see ahead five years, but I know what's on the drawing board and I'm excited to see if it makes it into reality. So I'm hearing technology and accessibility. I believe so. That's where I see it. That's awesome. Yeah. Put it in more people's hands. Yeah. Right. Put it in more people's hands and they can use it. Yeah. And I think people are realizing that, you know, um, like one of my favorite workouts is boxing. It's like, and I think with the pandemic boxing, you know, is amazing because you can do it as a couple, do it as with your partner. And it's like so much fun and you can get so much aggravation and you're like stress out of your body in like three minutes. It was like, oh my God, you're dripping in sweat. I love it. Exactly. I'm going to tell my boyfriend that. So when I'm start boxing him and then we go sit in the hot tub to recover, get it out on the, you know, as long as you're in the rink, when you get it out, no problem. Then you can recover. I'll say it was prescribed, right? Absolutely. I'll write you a prescription. There you go. That's awesome. Thank you so much for your insight, Yodi. You've been awesome. Oh, I hope you enjoyed it. Thanks. Yes. Thank you so much. And we will be in touch soon. A lot of good things coming down the pipeline regarding recovery. So keep your eyes peeled, but more importantly, like Yodi said, go educate yourself, start learning what you can do to help your clients move better and everyone's going to benefit. Thanks, Jen. Thanks, Yodi.