 c στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη στη Absolutely. So I love connecting with you because you always have, again, you're very research-based, mostly because of the affiliations that you have and just the way your brain works. Obviously, you guys can see behind him, he has his own training space. He is training the older adults. That is his company. He's been licensing out that brand and what he does to other people as well. So I'd love to hear in the beginning here, tell everybody a little bit about that as well. But I just want to call one thing out, you guys. As I'm talking to Robert today, we're going to be talking about bone density training and rucking specifically. And he has some really great research about some of the things that he's going to bring up. He did send me some screenshots of that research and just some information. So at the end of the episode, we're going to put those up on the screen for a few seconds. You can always pause it and grab the information. So keep an eye out at the end of the episode for more on the research. All right. But Robert, as we dive into this today, for people who might not be familiar with you, tell us a little bit about yourself, your backstory and TOA. Yeah, real quick, because I do want to make sure we get into all this good stuff. So my wife, Keegan, and I run TOA, trainingtheolderadult.com here in Shingle Springs, California, just outside Sacramento. And we're kind of a half and half business, half trainer education, the other half client training. And they work really well together, because this is kind of the beta testing environment here where I get to bring all my clients in and take them through an eight week training program. We pre and post test and kind of assess how the programming goes. And then if that works well, then we send that out to all of our other TOA affiliates and our junior affiliates and our mentees, everybody else that we work with, as this is a proven program that has worked well. And we kind of continue that cycle as we go. So we give them workouts, we give them mentoring, coaching, business practices, help troubleshooting clients, whatever they need across the board. And then clients in house, I've got about 60 clients that I work with here, either in studio or online or both. So I get a really good opportunity to work with all kinds of aging bodies, different limitations, injuries, clients that are going through treatments or different diseases and figure out how to build a program that accommodates them and their needs. And then I help deliver all that out to all of our people and all of our consumers on our YouTube channel and our Instagram and everything else. So always dishing out information and always obsessing and researching and packets of content that I'm flipping through and reading all these articles and always trying to find the best way to do this and bring it to our people. Constant pursuit of the perfect program. And does that exist? I don't know, but I'm in the search of attempting to find one. Always evolving. So that's us. I love it. So guys, if you're interested, definitely check out his YouTube channel because when Robert says he's an educator, he's absolutely an educator. And he puts out a ton of free content on his YouTube channel. So check the description of the episode. I have the way that you can get to his YouTube channel. I have the link right there for you guys. I have the link for his training, the older adult website. So if you want to find out more about the training that he does for TOA and how to license it, if you're interested. And then also the education that he provides. Obviously, ISSA is an education institution, but there's tons out there. And if you want to learn from people like Robert, we'll throw the link in the description so you can. All right. But without further ado, Robert, let's get into it. Let's do it. I think probably the most important thing that I would like to share with this is. The specific focus on aging populations, let's just call it at 30 right now, because we used to think of an older adult as 65. And then it became 50 when the AARP started sending out catalogs to 50 year olds. And they're like, now, now you're old. You're like, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. Really, the research is kind of drifting into the early 30s for sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass and function. So we're beyond atrophy. You're getting to a point where you're actually losing your ability to do something. Walk, skip, jump, lift, carry, posture, and you name it. You're losing ability right around early ages of 30 if you're living a completely sedentary life. On the opposite of that is bone density. So we are seeing, especially the ladies, three to one over men, having bone density issues. Osteopenia, early onset of bone density issues, leading into osteoporosis. And we're seeing that happen as early as 30. And this can become a nutritional component. This could be a sedentary component, a combo of both. There are some links to hereditary components as well for both, but mostly for bone density. And so when we look at that, we're also seeing a combination of the two in these sedentary lifestyles, leading to increases in cardiovascular disease. So VO2 health and VO2 capability is very low. On the opposite of that, basically lends towards additional adipus tissue or body fat. So we have obesity components. So you have osteopenia, you have sarcopenia, and you have obesity. So osteosarco-obesity are kind of the big three concerns that we have right around the early ages of 30. And again, more for females in that early onset. And as we continue to age, if we don't do anything about this, we're going to start to see some pretty severe issues. Start to kick in probably around 50, where posture will be very poor, health concerns and risks will be very high, and abilities are going to be rather restricted. By the time you get to 60, you're going to be the deconditioned 90-year-old, right, at 60. And so we're living longer, but we're aging quicker, is a way that I would say that, unless you're doing something about it. So we get a lot of clients that come in and they go, well, I don't really like to lift weights, but I know that I should. And, you know, I just want to play golf and I play tennis and this and that. And so it's like, all right, you've got all these things that you can do that don't really participate or utilize additional load or progressive overload, which we know we need for all three of those. So where is there a happy medium? And that's why I brought this topic to you. And I said, hey, I want to get on and talk about this, because I just don't think a lot of people know about it. And when we concern ourselves primarily with bone density health, you need additional load, some type of outside load to assist in that. Anybody and everybody that is capable of walking into a weight room is capable of walking. So if we put load on you while you walk, you can increase bone density. You can, with a couple of research articles that I'll show you, from the military all the way through premenopausal women, you can increase bone density and hang on to and or build muscle mass and at the same time increase your VO2 mass. And if you're nutritionally handling things like you should in the kitchen, we're going to see increases in mass, lean muscle mass, bone density, decreases in body fat, and increase in cardiovascular health. So we're kind of checking all four boxes by doing one thing. Now, does that mean that that's all you need to do? No, but if this is an introduction to your body's first step to additional overload training, then that's great. And so we call this rucking. And a lot of people don't really know what it is. Or if they hear rucking, they think of a rucksack. And so you think of like Bear Grylls, the military, you know, British jumps, the rucksack, right? And that's kind of the idea. And that's it's a military inspired strategy for training. Now, I don't know the whole story, but I know that the business, the company, GoRuck, has kind of spearheaded this whole thing. And they come from the owners and such come from a military background. And in the military, they've got this tight community and this group and their own language and their own styles of training and all this. And so once a lot of them kind of cycled through the military and they were done, they wanted to continue to train and be together and to do this. And so GoRuck came about. And GoRuck, they create rucksacks, backpacks. And then they got into footwear and they got into everything else that you might need to go out and rock safely and efficiently. Really, all you need is a backpack. Okay, you can get all the fancy stuff later. But what you really need in the beginning is just a backpack. So go grab your Jansport backpack and throw all your school books out of there. And then you can get, you know, a couple of beach towels and a five pound or a 10 pound plate and wrap it up in there, pack it in nice and tight, and then put it up as high on your back as you can. Ideally, you would have a little hip support belt that goes around too. So a lot of the good, you know, single day, you know, like two to five liter packs that you could wear on a overnight or any of those, they're all going to come with some type of hip support and harness that comes on. And that's great, right? You've got your shoulder straps, a little click in the middle, and then you've got the one that goes around your waist. So now we're kind of distributing the load everywhere across your body. And the more surface area and contact and hip support you get, the less stress on your back. So you go for a walk a mile or 10 minutes in each direction and come back. Start off real simple, really light, five to 10 pounds. Get out there, give it a shot, and come back and see how your body feels. And ideally, if you are walking on a regular basis and you add this little bit of overload, here's what's going to happen. Okay? Five pounds that you put in this backpack with every step. That's five, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, right? And you take this mile walk and come back and you just moved 4,000, 5,000 pounds. But you did it five pounds at a step and you only moved it this far, but that's fine. You're still moving load. And you're going to experience that load via axial loading over the shoulders, over the hips. So your spine, shoulders, your hips, your femurs, your leg, all the way down to your feet are all going to experience some type of overload that is not normal. And you just took step, step, step, step, step. So they're all going to respond. You're going to be able to push yourself. Ideally, we call it hill seeking. So you will find some hills that go up and walk up and down and you'll get cardiovascular health from that. And then at some point, if you start to either carry weights or use sticks, right? Hiking sticks. When you go, you can incorporate your upper body. You'll start to experience a full body resistance training, granted lighter weight, but it is a good introduction to this that allows you to feel safe and stable. Basically, you're walking. You have sticks in hand. So that helps you with balance. So if you're older or if you're not great at this yet or if you're on uneven terrains or you're on hills or you're in DG or dirt hill paths or grass or whatever you're on, you've got some additional support to assist you in not falling down. So now we're addressing all of our primary concerns from our bone health to our muscular health to our cardiovascular health. And we're getting outside and we can go with other people. This can be social. This can be a cognitive engagement. All of this is kind of working at like a zone two. If you know your zones, your one through five zones, your zone two is that zone where you can still have a conversation with people, but it's a little challenging to keep your air. But you're not gassed. You're like, you can't get anything out, but you're also not able to talk like we're talking right now. Yeah. There's that one little level up. And that's usually where you can kind of go, all right, this is zone two. We can talk, we can engage, we can reap the benefits of everything we just talked about. And all I'm doing is going out for a walk with a backpack on. Right. Do that. See if you like it. And if you do, then you can get into, well, let's get the right footwear and let me get the right backpack that fits me and its size to fit on me and all this. And then you can go from there. But I think it's a great way to start off. And if you don't want to wear a backpack, you could wear a vest. A lot of people wear weighted vests. And there's a lot of different companies out there from TRX to hyperwear to perform better. Everybody, almost everybody has a vest these days that you can get. And if you have any lower back or vertebral issues and the axial loading is really challenging, a lot of people will also think, well, maybe this isn't for me. I can't put a lot of load on my back. Again, we're talking about very light loads. And we're talking about distributing it about your body. So, yeah, you'll have some axial loading, but that's where the hip supports will come in and give you some pretty good benefit. Okay. So, I think that's probably where I'd like, I know there's a long intro of introducing the idea of rucking. And I would love to hear your thoughts on it if you've done it or if you've had any experiences with it. And then we can go a little bit deeper into the research and kind of see what some of the experiences from our military to our premenopausal women going through studies. And then just some of our outdoor experience folks, what their experience with this. Because there are some common concerns and some thoughts about it. But what are your thoughts and what do you think? Have you tried this or done this? And what have your experiences been with it? Yes. Okay. So, I do have some questions. And I think every person, the average client or trainer might have some questions about this too. I have done a little bit of rucking. I didn't call it that. I just had like my weighted vest because I did buy a weighted vest. I bought it on Amazon and it wasn't very expensive. And it went from like zero pounds, like unweighted. It has little sleeves, like little tiny sleeves that you put into like the little holes around it. And it goes up to 20 pounds. I've never put more than 10 pounds in it for anything. But I think the important distinction that you made is you could start with a backpack. But to put it as high up as possible. Because of course, we all know or work with kids, right? At some point. And they all wear their backpacks so low. And then their backs hurt and their knees hurt and their hips hurt. And I'm like, oh my God. Well, a lot of it's because their bag is hanging so low and it's like pulling them back. So, that's a very important distinction. How to wear a traditional backpack until you get one that has the correct support. But I have a question for you. If somebody's using a weighted vest, right? Even if it's just whether it's one from like a fancier place or just an Amazon one like I have. Those do, the weights do set a little bit lower. Should they just make sure the vest is like on as securely as possible? Yeah, that's a little tricky. So, number one, the first concern we have, especially with women wearing a vest is, are you going to be comfortable? And there are plate carrier vests where you literally have an iron plate or some type of cast iron plate that sits on you. Now, if you've had any kind of augmentation, any surgeries, or if you're just more developed, that's uncomfortable. And I totally get it. And so, then they started to make plates that have curvatures and this and that. Then they started to develop vests that didn't have the weights above the chest. They had it below. And I think that's probably one of the better options to pursue. Hyperwear makes the best one that I have seen that does that where all the weights are sub-sternum. And so, they wrap around your belly. And then they have, you put it on like a vest and you zip it up. And then there are cinch ties on the side. So, you can cinch it up tighter. Right? They're small, medium, large. But you can make it from, you know, six inches looser to six inches tighter on each vest. Now, you do want it tight, like you said. But you don't want it so tight that it restricts your breathing. And so, that's where if you have a plate that like sits on your chest and you're huffing and puffing going up a hill, you'll see a lot of people like loosening them up while they climb. And then once they get over the top and they're not huffing and puffing anymore, they'll cinch them back up again. And that's okay. Like, that's the beauty of a vest, an adjustable vest. But also with the rucks, you'll see people adjusting their ruck all the time. You'll have times, especially if you're doing like a little bit heavier one, you'll loosen the shoulder straps but tighten the hip supports so more of the weight sits on your hips. And you'll carry it like that for maybe 30 minutes or 40 minutes. And then you'll reverse it. You'll loosen the hips and cinch up the shoulders and tighten up. And so, you can kind of switch and transition back and forth as you start to experience fatigue. You can do similar with the vest where you can cinch it up real tight around the ribs, maybe take a little more like a hugging posture to distribute the load. But then as you start to fatigue a little bit and you want to take a break, loosen that up and let your shoulders take the load. If you're going to go more than 45 minutes to an hour, we suggest people get backpacks or rucks. We think that's a much better product to wear for that where the vest will get you to about 45 minutes or an hour before your traps start to feel a lot of pressure. And they're more or less designed for a workout than they are for you to wear for hours on end. So, I'm going to do a bodyweight workout or even a resistance training workout. And I just want to make my challenge of the workout a little harder. I'm going to throw an extra 10 pounds on me while I do everything. That was kind of the original design of the vest. Then people go, okay, well, I like rucking. Well, I have that vest. And they start kind of making the connections. Totally fine. Totally doable. Majority of my clients have that pro hyperwear vest. And it's $79, I think. And it's a great investment. And they're, like you were saying, they're little plastic sandbags, little cubes that you can pull out, put back in and make it whatever you want. They're like a half pound each. So, you go, I'm going to start with three pounds. And in two weeks, go to five pounds. And in two weeks, go to seven pounds. And you can make your adjustments as you go. Cinch up as tight as you want. Zip up, zip down. If it's hot, if it's cool. And it basically looks like a spandex vest that you're wearing. No one would even know. It's not like, what's that lady doing with a bulletproof vest on? Like, it's not, it doesn't look like, you know, those. Now, there's nothing wrong with those. Those look cool as shit. I've got two of them. Like, my wife has one. We love them. You know? It's got all the acronyms and all the stuff on it. We've got some that are dedicated to our buddies that served and they're in the military and all that. And I love that. But I also have clients that are like, I don't want to have people asking me if I'm in the military while I'm walking around. Which, my rock is camouflage. And everywhere I take it, with this hairdo and this beard, everyone's like, are you special ops? I'm like, no. I love you guys and I support you to the umpteenth degree. I have so much respect for our military. But no, that's not me. And it's a community that you'll see of ruckers. Like, when you see each other, we've got a couple people in our neighborhood. And you'll see a runner and they're like, hey. But when you see a rucker, rucker's like, hey, man. Like, we know something that nobody else knows. Like, we're our own group, you know? It's actually really cool. And Go Rock, plus a couple other companies, there's Rucking Challenges. There's Go Ruck Yourself. There's a couple other ones that are really fun. And they have these huge communities of gatherings where it's like every Saturday they meet at the high school and they all go on a ruck together or they all do workouts together. Really, really fun. It's all about community. And it's as simple as if you can walk, you can ruck, you know? And any ages across the board, there's great value to that emotionally and physically, as we kind of talked about. But it's so simple. And once you kind of have the basics of your gear, there's no membership. There's no, you know, oh, I got to keep buying more stuff. Like, once you have the basics, good footwear, you got your ruck, a headlamp if you're going to go out, you know, when it's dark. And then water bottle, you know, reflective vests, you're good to go. You know, buy new shoes every year. That's about it. The weights are always going to weigh the same and you can go wherever you want. I've got routes planned all over my neighborhood. If I have 90 minutes, if I have two hours, if I have 45 minutes, I've routed, you know, I've got routes that can go, do I want more hills? Am I going to carry a little more weight today, a little less? Am I going to go for speed? Am I going to go for climbing? You know, you can create all kinds of different styles of training out of it. I know I'm jumping the gun. Well, I have a question then. So based on the routes part, what if you, I'm an indoor person here. So I've rucked a couple times. I've hiked a couple times. Do I enjoy it? I don't enjoy the outside. Let's just put it that way. I don't like bugs and I'm not a fan of it. So if somebody wanted to do it indoors, could they use like a stair mill, a treadmill on incline? Like what are some options for someone who's indoors or maybe the weather doesn't permit them being outside? Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people will ask too, like, well, I don't live in the city. I live out in the, you know, I live in a city. Can I ruck? Like some of the biggest rucking groups, Chicago and New York, like they're in the cities. And there'll be thousands of them that all get together and they walk around the city together. But even if you don't want to go like outside, you can ruck on a treadmill. If I'm on a business trip or whatnot, my work backpack is a backup ruck. And so it looks like a regular backpack, but on the inside it has a plate carrier and a carrier right behind that for my laptop to go into. And so I can take that with me, find a couple of plates in the, you know, the Marriott weight room, throw a couple of dumbbells in there or a plate or whatnot, and then hop on the treadmill and away we go. I prefer people to get the value and the benefit of being outside, the sun exposure, you know, hearing the birds and the trip. But if you're in New York City and you got to stop every other block to wait for the stoplights to let you go. Yeah, I get hop on the treadmill, get your workout in. You can do the stair mill. I think the stair mills are great where you're literally picking your feet up as opposed to the stair steppers where you're just pumping your feet in place. I think more damage occurs from those than good. And the elliptical is kind of the same thing. This is just my opinion. I don't know if there's a ton of research to support this. I read one research article that basically suggested unless you're 5'7 to 5'9 and unless your legs are 39 inches long or whatever it was, then the elliptical is not designed for you. And so... I'm so glad you said that because I am 6 feet tall, Robert. And when I get on an elliptical, every time, every time my hips pop, they get tight. And then I have to stop and do hip circles to pop them just because I tried to explain this to my mom, who's also pretty tall. She's 5'10 and a half. I was like, do not, with your artificial knee, get on an elliptical. Because if you think about it, you guys, it's just your feet are in place. Yes, you can move in the foot pedal, but there's only so many inches left, right, forward, back that you can move. And so it's a set range of motion. And women especially have wider hips and it varies by the person. So you can't tell me that the foot pedals on an elliptical are the right width for every human being because they are not. So my hips hurt like crazy when I use ellipticals. Yeah. There's a lot to download in that because you're 100% right. If you're over 5'10, then you're going to be taking these little, you know, these little awkward steps that are under your regular stride length. And if you're shorter than 5'7, then you're taking these huge striding lengths and you're over striding. And so, yeah, the shorter people, their backs are probably going to hurt. Us taller people, I'm 6'4. So my hips hurt when I do it. And when was the last time you watched somebody walk that didn't put, like, their feet are stuck in this perfect railroad? Right. Like, when we walk or run, our feet swing in towards our midline. So the machine can't do that. So now you're, like, forcing your feet to turn out, which internally rotates your hips and causes more uncomfortableness and damage to that. And then, yeah, you're right. You can't put your feet where you want to when there's no striking of them on the ground. So maybe I like to turn my feet out or in. I guess you could adjust that on the machine. But the best one that I've seen is the Cybex Arc Trainer. And that one kind of allows, yeah, there's a freedom to it where you can move it into some different positions. But I'd rather you just walk on the treadmill. You know, I think that's so much better. And especially if you've had a joint replacement, allow your feet to land where they want to land. And if you're going to get on a treadmill, any woodweight treadmill is definitely preferred. The woodweight treadmills are the bomb. Yeah. And, you know, yeah, you want at least a 1% incline. And then typically, I would say whatever you're actually walking at, let's say your pace, your regular walking pace is like 3 miles an hour. Whatever the treadmill is going to be, it's going to be a little slow. So you'd actually want to walk at like 0.2 more than what you might be clocked at regularly. Because you have to wait for the belt, right? The belt has to be turned underneath you. That's the beauty of the woodweight treadmills is you're the one turning that. There's no motor, right, that feeds it. So is it more work and does it take time to get used to it? Yeah. But it's a way better product in my opinion. So if you're going to do more stuff, yeah, and that's awesome, right? So, like, that's, I think if you're going to be indoors and doing that, absolutely. I think it's a great, it's a great thing. And it's just keep in mind that, that analogy I gave you of the 10, 20, 30, 40 pounds, right? With the 10 on, like how quickly that can add up in value. So you're like, well, I only did it with 5 pounds. Yeah, but you move like 5, 6, 7,000 pounds while you did that 3-mile walk. That's amazing, right? That's awesome work that your body is not used to doing. It's going to respond to that. If you're outdoors or on a treadmill or on a stair mill, it's going to respond. So this is a very inexpensive way to check a lot of boxes of what we're trying to pursue, especially for females, especially when you're younger, but for anybody with bone density issues across the board. I just don't know if a lot of people know about it or if enough people feel comfortable implementing it. So that kind of leads, you said you had another question. Did you have one more before? No, I was going to say, let's start with a basic client. How would we talk to them about this, potentially help them understand the benefits and get them going? Yeah, the introduction of rucking can be tricky. And the reason I say it that way is some of the resources you'll find online, say start with 5% of your body weight or start with 10% of your body weight and don't go more than 30% or ladies should be 20 pounds or under, guys should be 20 pounds or over. Like there's a lot of just numbers that people kind of throw out there. I'm a fan no matter what, who you are, how tall you are, unexperienced. If you're going to start rucking for the first time, you don't know what your body is going to be like. And I'll give you this example. I've got a client, big, strong, muscular guy, played football. He's 255, he's a stud, trains with me three days a week, can handle any weight workout I throw at him. I invite him to come up and ruck with me. And we're going out on a five-mile loop, two and a half out, two back. He does elk hunting all the time, so he's used to distance and all this. And he goes, I'm going to take 65 pounds. And I'm like, whoa. I'm like, why don't you take like 30? I'm only taking 30. I do this all the time. I got this. I got this. 15 minutes in, we're dropping plates on the side of the trail to pick up on the way back because he couldn't hang anymore. It's just way too heavy. You don't take into account 65, 130, 195, whatever. It's like 10 steps in, you're at 1,000 pounds that you moved already. It's like, dude, it's way too much, right? It's way too much. So start really, really light. Start with three or five pounds and go for a mile walk or a 10-minute out and a 10-minute back. Because that's the average person walks a mile in about 20 minutes. So if you're like, I don't walk, I don't do anything, but I want to start doing this. Just go out for a walk. Walk away from your house 10 minutes. Walk back 10 minutes. Okay? That's going to give you about a mile if you're just kind of moving at a decent clip. If it's less or more, I don't care. Just do 10 minutes out, 10 minutes back. And do that two to three days a week for a couple of weeks. Let's say two weeks. Just get used to going on walks every other day. And then you could add three or five pounds to a backpack or a vest. And do it again. And in some cases, you'll get out and you'll be like, damn, I'm tired. Right? This was hard. Good thing I only brought three pounds and not 10. Because then you're dropping out weights on the side of the trail and you're driving back to get them later. Okay? So just take three pounds. Right? Go out and come back. I have some clients that do like a two or three mile loop. And so they'll go out a mile, come back, drop off their vest and go do the rest of the walk with just their body weight. Even better. Right? Like that's a good way to kind of introduce it. And then slowly kind of get a little more, a little more, a little more until you're doing two or three miles of what you normally do. But you're wearing the vest the whole time. And then you can bump it to five pounds and then maybe 10 pounds. And if you get to like 10 or 15 pounds, I'm happy. You know, I think that's great. I think that's a phenomenal load to be able to carry over and over and over again. Will you go heavier and could there be days? Yeah. But I'm talking like months, if not a year down the line where you might want to do more. Now, if you have something that you want to train for, like a backpacking trip or something. Yeah. You're going to have to carry, you know, I took 65 pounds up Rainier with me when I climbed it. And it's like, you're going to have to train for some heavy overload. But that's not what we're talking about here. I just want to introduce a little extra load to you on a regular basis. And now I'll get all these responses, bones, muscles, cardio, foot contacts, coordination, balance, cognition, outside, sun exposure, vitamin D, all these great things. All this is going to come from me just going for a walk every day and adding a vest or a backpack onto my regular practices. So if you're doing that two or three days a week, and then you start to introduce just the most basic resistance training program on the other days, even if it's just little selectorized machines, right? I'm going to chest press and I'm going to row and I'm going to do some pull down and do some overhead press. And then I'll do quad extensions, leg curls in the leg press. Okay. So seven exercises and you do three sets of 10 on each one. And it takes you 20 minutes. I would be, number one, you'll see massive change in your abilities, massive change. And you do that for three to six months. You'll see a physiological change, right? As long as your nutritional habits don't change much, right? You're either eating to your nutritional demands every day. If you burn 2,000, you're eating 2,000. And then we do everything we're talking about. You're going to lose some really good body fat. You're going to increase bone density. You're going to gain some muscles. And you're going to start seeing your abs and seeing little cuts in your arms and your shoulders. And all of a sudden, hey, man, I got some muscles here. This can happen at any age, okay? At any age. As long as you're doing it right. But what happens is we'll go out and be a little more physically active. And what happens? We get a little more hungry. And so, yeah, I'm doing a little more. And then you eat a little more. And nothing really changes other than I'm getting stronger, right? And then your bone density, et cetera. But maybe we're not losing the belly fat that we want. So that's where the Balance Act kind of comes in. You're still going to need to find some type of caloric deficit. But allow your exercise to do that rather than reducing the amount of food you eat. Just get the amount of food you're supposed to have every day. And allow your exercise to be your 200, 300, 400 calories of burn. And now we're winning across the board. You're getting stronger. You're getting more dense. You're getting a cardiovascular health for your heart and your lungs. We're starting to lean out a little bit. Get rid of some of that body fat. And we're having fun while we're doing it. But really, what are we talking about? Going for a walk every other day and 20 minutes of weights. So let's say the 20 minutes of weights actually takes you 40 because you've got to drive to the gym. You've got to drive back. And then your walk takes, you know, 20, 30 minutes out, 20, 30 minutes back. Let's call it an hour every day. Just for fun, call it an hour every day that you've got to commit. So now we're looking at seven hours out of 168 that you have in the week. Seven hours to have all these great benefits that we just talked about. We didn't even talk about cognitive return for this. Cognitive return. Your body's ability to function in the bedroom. Your body's ability to perform better in sport. All of these things are going to come benefit. If you've ever looked at the list of benefits of resistance training, they're 30 bullet points deep. There's a lot to improve there. And so you're going to get all that with seven hours out of 160. So you've got 161 other hours to do whatever the hell you want. Let's say a third of that's sleeping. You still have, what is that, 112 hours, whatever, right? You still have a ton of hours to do whatever it is you want to do. So when people go, I don't really have time to do this, come on, right? Especially if you're even close to retirement, you've got time to put in 30, 40 minutes every day to go for a walk and lift a couple of weights to have all this benefit. There's definitely time. You just need to present it to people and arm them with this information so they go, oh, yeah, this should be a priority. We have clients that come and lift two, three days a week. They don't like it, but they know how good it is for them. And then they see the benefits on the other end and they're like, I'm in, I'm in, keep me, I want three spots every week. I'm not changing the thing. They're like, okay, they've seen the return of their investment. Now they're committed, even though they don't like it. Yeah. I think, well, that point is what I was going to make too, is that there's a lot of people out there, clients out there that don't like lifting weights. They don't want to go stand in the free weight section. They don't want to use a machine. They walk in and they say no to all of this, right? But this is just a fun, interesting, different way to get them to do exercise. And they're getting all these benefits, whether or not they think about them. We know it, right? So there's often going to be clients, right, Robert, that we don't necessarily want to bore them with the details of what they're getting out of their training. We just want them to be interested in it and engaged and want to do it consistently. So whether it's outside, inside, but again, getting outside, like you said, for some people, if you just told them, hey, put this on, it's got five pounds in it and we're going to go for a walk. Most people, most people wouldn't fight you on it. They'd be like, sweet, this is what we're doing. And then maybe they only train like two or three days a week instead of five or six days a week doing something that they despise. So I really like that aspect of it because there are so many clients out there who don't want to be in the weight room. Yeah, and I get that. You know, there's resistance to it for many reasons. It's intimidating or they just feel uncomfortable or like they don't belong here. And even if you find a gym where it is all women or all men or all bodybuilders or all 65 and older or whatnot, you may still just feel intimidated like you don't know what to do. Well, everybody knows how to walk, right? And everybody can get their own kit of everything we just talked about and they can start with this. And this can be a very non-intimidating, very simple, very easy way to introduce some resistance to your life. Good resistance, right? And start to reap some benefits from that. And I think most people will go on these rucks and they'll come back and go, this was really fun in terms of I feel challenged and I get this endorphin rush. And then you say, take off the vest or the ruck and they go, oh, shit, I forgot I had it on. And we call that unconscious load. Okay. And this happens almost. So Tuesdays in-house here, all of our clients wear vests when they train. They all come in on most of them come in on Monday. So when they come back to back, our second strength, our second day back to back, it's a almost bodyweight workout, but with a vest on. And so we break out all the vests. Most of our clients have their own. They bring them in. They call them their boyfriends. So they bring their boyfriends. They throw on their vest. We do the workout. And at the end, I go, okay, before we do the finisher, go ahead and take your vest off. And you see them go, oh, yeah, the vet, they almost every single time they do that, they kind of forget that they're wearing it. Right? And so that's showing us that their body is getting used to this load, this overload. But it also shows that it's going to turn unconscious for them where they're not going to have to think about this is so heavy. This is so heavy. Like you're going to get going and you're going to think, man, I can feel this. This is something. And then you guys will start talking or you'll start looking around or you'll start investing whatever you're listening to if you're on a treadmill or watching or whatnot. And you kind of forget about it. But the benefit of carrying the load is still occurring. And then when you get done, you're like, oh, yeah, I'm going to take this off. And you feel light as a feather. And you get that little endorphin high and almost like a lifter's high and a runner's high kind of mixed together. Right? So if we introduce you to that and you're like, see how fun this was? You can get an even better feeling of this if you come and lift with me. Now let's just find you a way that you'd like to lift. And some people want a set of adjustable dumbbells like some power blocks. Right? And they'll just use those. And they're like, I want to have my spot and my routine. Cool. Others want to have a set of kettlebells in their own space. Others want to have a whole gym with all their own selectorized stuff. There's all kinds of different variations of resistance training in a class, semi-private, one-on-one, at home, online, in person. There's got to be some way to connect the folks. And a lot of our clients will say, well, we like to do it in like a competitive or a fun environment where it doesn't feel like we're lifting necessarily, more like we're competing. Cool. We have workouts that do that too, you know, in different styles that encourage that. So there's a lot of different ways to introduce resistance, happy resistance into your life where it's not going to be seen as this negative, poor thing. And maybe rucking could be that first step that kind of disarms them to the idea of I don't want to lift weights. I'm not going to do that. Or the concern they're going to get hurt. Because you could be like, hey, man, we could go do all these machines and you'll move like 2,000 pounds. But the ruck you just did moved three times that. Like you're not going to get hurt. Okay. Your body can obviously handle it. Right. Moving loads, moving load. Right. If I deliver a thousand bricks to you outside and you have to move each one or one 1,000 pound brick, either way, we move the same load. It's just a bite at a time. Right. Your body's still going to be able to reap the benefits from this. We're just going to gradually transition it to, like, let's do a little heavier and a little more. The further we go with that, the greater the bone density return, the greater the muscular return, etc. It'll all just start to add up. And we'll get to a point where you're like, hey, I'm 55 and I could pick, you know, 60, 70, 80 pounds up off the ground. And I can carry 30, 40 pounds in each hand. And I can go up and down stairs and I can get up and down off the floor. And I can push, pull, and press a pretty decent amount of weight in every direction. Kind of ready for whatever life throws at me. You know, it doesn't need to be more than that. And I think that's another thing that maybe deters people. It's like, well, I have to constantly pursue the next weight. You don't. When you get to a point where you're like, I'm strong, now let's just not go backwards. Let's have fun. Yeah, absolutely. Was there any other research you want to highlight on specific? Yeah. So this is a fun one. I'm just kind of looking at my notes here. And this, we got this from GoRuck. And I mentioned it to you right before we came on. So one of the questions that comes up is, how is this going to, if I'm doing cardio, how am I going to not lose muscle mass in the act of doing this? Because there is a common misconception. But it's not maybe terribly a misconception because it is very difficult to cut body fat and build muscle mass. That's why the elite of the elite, bodybuilders and such, even when they're cutting for a show, they're still losing some muscle mass. Right. That's why they bulk and they get really, really big. And so when they cut a little bit, they still look fantastic, but they're not as big as they were three months ago. Right. And so it's a really challenging thing to do. So if we're going to introduce this form of cardio, how can we not lose muscle mass at the same time? And so this kind of came about, they had a group of individuals that went out on a 12 day ruck back country hunting and rucking. They were gone for 12 days. There were 30 plus people every day. They rocked between eight and 10 miles a day. And they assessed everyone when they left, when they all came back on average, the group was down 14% on body fat. They were increased 8% on VO2 max and they decreased their bad cholesterol by 28%, all while losing 0.1% of lean muscle mass. So they didn't lose any muscle mass. Okay. They improved their heart. They lost body fat and they reduced their bad cholesterol all while being out there the whole time. Right. Now, granted, they're rucking more than the average person is going to ruck on a mile walk. But the point is, is they can work at an intensity where they're not going to lose muscle mass, but still reap the benefits of everything else that we've, we've kind of addressed because of the intensity rate and the additional load. You're not sprinting, right? You're not working at a higher than a level two or a zone two, and you're carrying some additional load. So it's kind of the best of both worlds. Yeah. You're using your muscles. Exactly. And especially if you're using sticks, which a lot of people feel like that's a, that means I'm not good at this or that I'm a fall risk. Or they feel like if you're using sticks, it's somehow seen as a notch down. And it really isn't. When I was going through getting my master's degree or my undergrad at Sac State, I was one of the athletes in the class. And so anytime we had to do one of the tests or one of the, the assessments, I got volunteered to do it. So I got to do a VO2 max test, a Bruce protocol test and a VO2 at the same time. And so I get on the treadmill and it's like every two minutes, it goes up one mile per hour and 2% incline. And I'm harnessed and you go and you go in like 15, 18, 20 minutes. You're like, you sprinting and then you just fly off the machine. And once you're just like, I can't do it anymore. And you're swinging from this thing behind, you're done. And so you literally go to failure. Okay. So I did that and I made it for like 16 minutes or whatever my time was. And they gave me a VO2 max. And then the next week when I came back, we did it again, this time on a wider treadmill. And I got to use the sticks. And what I found was I could work at a higher intensity because I was using more of my body earlier. I use my thumbs a lot earlier in the, in the test. I actually had a higher push on my VO2 because I was now recruiting my arms. I had more muscular involvement. Now, did I burn out earlier? Yeah, I only made it to like 12 and a half or 14 minutes, but it's because I was using more of my musculature. My heart was having to pump more blood to be able to feed it all. Point is, is when you're using your arms and you're out hiking and walking, it's harder. You're using more muscles. You're engaging more. So that's not a bad thing. Like that's, that's what we want. I'd rather you be able to go out and rock and train your entire body rather than, well, I did everything except my arms, right? And now I've got these big thighs and I've got this awesome butt and these great big shoulders and no arms, right? Little chicken arms. So yeah, you can do something called extremity loading where you either hold weights or strap, you know, two or three pound weights, no more than three pounds onto your arms while you're out doing your rocks. And now you've got some upper body engagement while you do it. You could also do ankle weights. Some clients will do ankle weights. Mind you, if you've had a knee or a hip replacement, I don't advise that. Okay. But if you, if you have all your original joints, then you could do two, three, maybe four pounds on your ankles and have some extremity loading there. And it's just a way to make things a tiny bit harder. And guess what? My arms get tired. What do I do with the weights? I throw them in my backpack, right? And I keep going. I've just got the same load on me, right? But I was able to train my upper body for the first half or, you know, the first mile or whatever I did. So there's a lot of fun ways to introduce this and, and implement it and kind of daily practice. It doesn't cost a lot. You got a lot of great return. It's a lot of fun. There's, there's not a lot of negatives that pack up to this. I just wanted to get an opportunity to share it and expose everybody to it. So they have an idea of how to implement it in with their clients, introduce it to them, you know, kind of a selling discussion on here's all the great value that can come from this. And if they're already out doing regular walks, let's just talk about adding a little load and you're only going to get more benefit out of that. Other research kind of looked at long-term exposure for women going through menopause and being able to either maintain bone loss, if not increase it. And they followed them over a 32, let me bring this one up real quick, a 32 week, three times a week for 32 weeks, they went out on walks wearing their weighted vest. And by the end, individuals had either maintained, these are all folks over average age 64, as high as 72 and as low as 62, somewhere around in there, or 58. Anyhow, average age 64, trained for 32 weeks. Nobody lost any muscle mass or any muscle mass. No one decreased in bone density. They all improved either in muscle mass or maintain the same. Their bone density either maintained, stayed the same or slightly increased over those 32 weeks. They all reported under self-assessment improvement and mood swings in temperature regulation across the board because they were exercising on a regular daily basis. And the majority of the women chose to participate in the extended program that lasted another five years. So not only did the 32 weeks go so well, they all volunteered. The majority of them all volunteered to keep going over the five-year assessment and just continue to see how valuable it was for them to wear their weighted vest on their daily walks. And then that led all the way over into the military. And looking at the military, their bone density, muscle mass across the board, military will have like three standard ruck weights. There's a, I'm going to get this wrong, but something like A-50 pounder, a 90 pounder, and like 130 pound kit that they have to be able to carry and do certain distances at certain times. And so if you have the light one, you have to be able to go, you know, six miles in three hours or something like that. And each one has kind of a standard. And so they looked at those individuals, same thing in that original one we talked about. Nobody lost muscle mass. They either maintained or increased bone density, huge increases in cardiovascular health. All their VO2 maxes went through the roof and they decreased their bad cholesterol, decreased their decreased adipose tissue body fat across the board. Like these were all wins. And so concerns, just to kind of wrap this here, concerns that you can't have is doing too much too soon. And if you have a bad lower back or hip issues or neuropathy in your feet or any kind of foot, Achilles, tendonitis, anything like that, plantar fasciitis, the additional load can be aggravating. So you definitely want to introduce this slowly. Okay. And then you also want to take into consideration the shoes that you're wearing and the amount of ground contacts that you're going to have. If the average person can cover 5,280 feet, you know, two and a half feet per stride. So you're looking at like 1,800 to 2,200 steps, right? Somewhere around in there to get to a mile. If I did my math right there, 1,500 to 1,800 steps, something around there. That's a lot of foot contacts is my point. And you want to make sure your feet are contacting the ground properly. The shoes that you're wearing are cross trainers or hiking shoes or something along those lines. And they're geared towards being able to go forward or multiple direction, ankle support with additional load. You don't want to wear your tennis shoes is my point. You don't want to wear clogs and go, you know, like you need to wear good supportive athletic shoes when you're going to do this. And understand the demands that you're placing on your body when you do it. So you don't have any of the negative returns on the other end, right? Blisters, you know, that kind of stuff. Anything you would have from if you went from nothing to a whole bunch of something. So a lot to take in. A lot to take in with rocking. But I think there's really great value to have there. And I'm just happy we got the chance to sit down and talk about it. Absolutely. So I'm looking forward to sharing this research with everyone. Because I feel like a lot of our viewers are also research-minded. And it's nice to have the research to back up to share with clients, too. Because a lot of our clients are going to be research-minded. But a lot of it is going to be anecdotal evidence. When they get out there and they try it and they see the benefits and they're like, oh, this is nothing in life is easy. But this is simple. Right? I can do this or I will do this consistently. I think it's lights out. Because to your point, there's tons of benefits to it. And it's just a matter of getting them started so they can see the benefits and feel them for themselves. Yeah. We are taking information, benefit information, and kind of assuming as we lump it all together that this is going to occur. Because there's only like five studies out there that have really looked at rucking. Three of them, big time for the military. The other two, similar to what we just kind of talked about with backcountry and with the ladies there. And some of those were wearing vests, not even a heavier load. By the vest, they're talking, you know, five to ten pounds. It wasn't a ton of weight, but enough to make a fairly significant difference. So, yeah, I think as this becomes more common and more mainstream, we're only going to get more and more research to support it. But the little information we have now shows great results and great benefits of doing so. Very minimal risk and great social and cognitive components that go along with that. That it would seem, you know, kind of silly for us not to educate and teach people about it. But I can only see over the next five, ten, fifteen years as people continue to do this becomes more mainstream. You're going to see people walking all over the neighborhood wearing vests and backpacks being like, what's going on here? It's already happening in so many different areas in city, out of the cities, etc. You're already going to see this all over. And as that continues to grow, I think we'll just get more and more research really to kind of support that and back it up. And you'll start seeing in universities and thesis and everything else as people start to see really great value in introducing this. So, yeah, I think this is just the tip of the spear. And as the decades go, we'll see more and more of this is a really good thing to invest in. It's a low barrier entry and it's just such a great thing to incorporate on a regular basis. I think everything lines up really well for people, especially if they're aging. This is such a good fit. Awesome. Very cool. So, guys, stay put at the end of this. We'll put up some of the research that Robert was talking about. Take some time to utilize the pause button. So, pause it and read some of it. And then you can follow some of the links in the description of this episode to get to the research and also to get to Robert. But thank you so much for coming and sharing this with us. This has been awesome. My pleasure. My pleasure. I have three other videos on my YouTube. Sorry to give a little plug here real quick. But one is how to start rucking what equipment you would need. And then another one that's just a basic explanation of what is it. So, like if I were talking to your mom or your dad. So, if anybody out there is like, this could be great for my parent. Or if you want more information on how to get your clients to understand what we're talking about, feel free to look at those videos. They're all on there. I don't have a subscription. You can subscribe, but I don't have like a money, what do they call it? A financial wall, right? Yeah, that you have to pay for anything. Yeah, yeah. You guys can just pop on there and enjoy them. And yeah, there's one through five. I did the most common questions on rucking. I just want to get more information out there. So, feel free to check all that out. And if anybody has any questions direct, feel free to reach out to me. Instagram, Facebook. You can message me on there. I'm happy to help. Awesome. Thank you for making yourself available as always. My pleasure. This has been super cool. And we will see you again, Robert. Can't wait. Can't wait. I love chatting with you. Yes, you too. So, guys, do the research. Check it out. So glad you guys stopped by. Go back and re-listen to this. Get some, again, some tips and ways to talk to your clients about this. That simplifies what we're talking about here. And most clients don't want to be bored with the details. So, find a way to simply explain to them the benefits. Go check out those couple of videos Robert has to offer about explaining this to clients as well. And make good choices out there, guys. We'll see you soon. Bye. Bye. Bye.