 nangaribarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangarangar Today we're talking about recovery. This is the thing that we all need to stay active in our life, and I'm so excited to cover this amazing topic with our subject matter expert, Yodi Richeson. Yodi, welcome. Thank you. Thank you so much, Jen. I appreciate it. How are you doing today? I'm awesome. I'm so excited to hear what you have to say, because guys, get this. Yodi is a recovery. She's been a recovery specialist for over 18 years, and her credentials range from working as a massage therapy and sports recovery specialist with basically every professional major franchise sports team out there. And she's also worked with the Olympic Committee doing sports therapy and sports massage, right, in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. That's awesome. And now you work with, get this, guys. She works with the LA Lakers now as a recovery therapist. That is so cool. Well, it's not as glamorous as it sounds, but thank you so much. Yeah, it's like I said before, pandemic is kind of crazy. So we're not at the facility. So I do have the title as recovery therapist for the Los Angeles Lakers. However, until this pandemic and we figure out what is happening in the sports world, I'm kind of just hanging out with my regular people that I love and enjoy helping them move and be the best they can be. That's awesome. We'll have to take it offline. I have some questions for you about some of the Lakers and stuff. But let's dive in here. It's all secrets, right? But let's dive in here. Yodi, recovery is getting a ton of attention lately. Tell me why you think people are taking this more seriously these days. I believe that people are taking it more seriously because they're realizing they want to move and they want to move correctly. And recovery gets them to that position. Absolutely. Do you think that trainers and fitness professionals and even clients out there are actually using recovery techniques? Like what percentage of people do you think are using these? I think it's more than you think it is. Because if you look at social media, you've got cryotherapy recovery. You've got lacrosse balls. You've got foam rollers. These are all recovery tools. So it's interesting and people want to know more about it. So with trainers, they're already have these tools in the gym. Are they using them? I hope so. Absolutely. That's the key. You hope so. So you mentioned some great tools like cryotherapy, the massage balls, bands. Tell me more about some tools that trainers can use with their clients for recovery. Trainers can always use bands. Bands are like the best thing to get blood flow into the area. You've got bands that you can connect with the person. You also have like if you look into Rogue Fitness, Voodoo bands. Voodoo bands are great for constricting blood flow. And then releasing it. So you're getting new blood flow in there. Those are my favorite tools that you can use instantly. Like in, you know, getting anybody out there on the next training session, you can do that. Also foam rollers and lacrosse balls. Again, you have them in the gym. Use them. Find out how to if you don't know how to use them. Yeah. So Yodi, when you say bands, are you talking about the little mini bands? Are you talking about the super bands? Are you talking about the cloth loops or all of the above? All the above. Yoga, yoga bands. You know, you've got yoga stretches. You can use any band. Like be creative. Think outside the box. You know the body. That's your job. And how can you, if you know somebody's restricted somewhere, how can you help them? So for me, I like bands and I like stretching. But if you can't stretch the person physically, then you can use the band and you can teach them to stretch themselves out. And like, especially with hip flexors, that's one of my number one complaints with people. So, you know, you can lunge into it and you can put the band inside the groin area, you know, wrapped around the leg and they can lunge into it and they can get that hip flexor to get moving a little bit. And all you're doing is getting that connective tissue to let go a little bit. So it lets the muscle flow and glide the way it's supposed to. Absolutely. So you're bringing up some great techniques already, Yodi. I know what recovery is. You know what recovery is. But for somebody who maybe isn't familiar with it, tell me, give me like an elevator pitch of what is recovery and why would somebody need it? The main thing for recovery is to keep moving. So it's getting blood flow restrictions to flow freely. So what you're doing, you can do it by stretching, trigger point, cryo. There's some like we talked about all the different tools. So the main thing we're doing is using tools as well as manual manipulation to get the person and keep the person moving. That would be my best pitch for it. So they're kind of trying to get rid of muscle soreness, muscle stiffness, achiness, whether it's from activity, from sports or from being sedentary. Is that what you're saying? Absolutely. Absolutely. And all the above. And that's the main thing we're doing is just keeping, you know, taking, I call it congestion. I call it like the freeway. You know, think about the freeway system. Okay. Then especially if you live in LA, you know, the freeway system when it's hitting hard. So it's congestion. So what we have to do is we have to get that. We have to move the accident out so we can get the flow of traffic back in. So that's the same with congestion in the body. So if a muscle is stiff and not moving correctly, it's like, what is holding it back? Majority of the time it's connective tissue. So what we're doing is warming it up, getting blood flow in there. And that could be with any of the tools that we talked about as well as manual manipulation. But it's just getting blood flow so the people can keep moving. Very cool. So it's very useful. But what are some of the common misconceptions you hear about recovery? Common misconception is mainly they think it's a massage. And that's not what it is. It's so much more because we don't just use manual manipulation. It's a big part. We do get blood flow that way. But you're not going to the spa. You're not going to relax during this. You're kind of still getting a workout. Because you do active, dynamic, and static stretches. So when you're doing active, these people are moving as well. And they thought they just had to finish the workout with you. But now they're coming to me. And we're going to work them differently because we're going to work them on the range of motion and getting them in the corrective exercise cycle, as well as movement patterns, teaching the movement patterns to keep them moving correctly. Absolutely. So they got uncomfortable. They got sore. And now they're going to get more uncomfortable before they get better, right? Yeah. Well, like I tell people a lot of the times, I'm like, the first time you hear my name, you'll remember it because it's weird. And I said, but the second time you'll say it because you don't like me. But the third time you say it, you'll be saying it to praise me. So it takes a couple days to get to know me. Yeah. So that sounds like recovery, too. It's a process. And it takes some time. And the more you do it, the more you keep it in your protocols, the easier it becomes and the better your body feels. That's awesome. Exactly. Just like you guys. When you start somebody on a new program, it takes them a couple weeks for the muscles to stop being so stiff. The same with us. We're not lifting weights or anything. So it's not as a long process. It's usually a few days. And then once their body gets used to it, all of a sudden it's like, thank you. Like, I didn't know I can move that way. So now you're talking about the different things that we can do. What happens if somebody doesn't implement recovery into their protocol? What happens? What are they going to feel? What are they going to see? They're going to feel like working out is a struggle. It's hard. And it's not going to be fun for them because it hurts. And it's like when you add recovery, you're giving them a lifeline to maintain a healthy lifestyle. That makes perfect sense. So now on that note, though, we're giving somebody a lifeline. What do you think is keeping trainers from using recovery? What's their biggest hangup right now? I can only talk about the recovery. I mean, the trainers that I know. And a lot of them are, it's lack of knowledge. It's thinking that they're staying on their path of training, which is great. And they know that like the back of their hand. But they're missing that one key component, which is recovery. And recovery is pre-workout as well as post. You know, are they warming up enough? You know, are they getting into the gym and just training? And, you know, I don't care if the person says, oh, I'm just coming from the office. They need to stop and they need to warm up. They can't just jump into training. And otherwise, they are going to get injured. So I think it's lack of feeling comfortable with it. You know, not knowing enough about it to understand that it's part and it grows your business. So you want to make people feel better so they stay with you longer. That's how I say it. It's like they want to be with you because you make them feel good. So Yodi, a trainer that's working with somebody but not using any kind of recovery strategies right now, what's the first thing they need to do? How can they get started using recovery? What can they do right now? Educate themselves. Find out what recovery is and how you can implement it in your program that you're giving to your clients. That's awesome. Yeah, education is absolutely the key. So thank you so much, Yodi. Such great information. And we are going to catch up again, though. Don't you worry. I have some more questions for you. But thank you so much for joining us. Thanks. Thanks.