 s for you guys to go back. But these are any questions that we missed this week during our office hours. And guys, there's so many great questions that it's getting hard to cover them all. So we're going to keep these episodes coming. But let's go ahead and dive right on in. So again, we're talking about additional questions from office hours, specifically from our CPT course from the week ending, let's see, week ending June 14th, June 14th, that we didn't get to. So let's dive right in, guys. The first one, there's four different questions sent in by one person. So let's go through these one at a time. Your first question, is fasting something a personal trainer can recommend to a client? All right. Is fasting something a personal trainer can recommend to a client? I love this question. But keep in mind, you guys, we don't recommend stuff like that, do we? I know it's semantics, but there's detail here. The devil is in the details. We don't recommend fasting. We don't recommend any eating pattern. If a client has questions about it, it's our job to educate them. All right. What do you know about fasting? Right? Ask questions first. What do you know about it? Where'd you hear about it? Why do you think that that would benefit you based on what you're trying to achieve? Okay. I have some great questions. I just want to learn more, mostly to find out what does this person know about it? And then it's our job to educate them. Fill in any blanks. Is there anything that they're missing or need to know about fasting or whatever eating pattern it is that they're interested in? Fill them in on the details. And then the question becomes, client, now that you know what this is and we fully understand how this might impact your goals, is this something you still want to try? If they say yes, awesome. I support you in it. How can I help? If they say no, then move on. It has to be their choice. Okay. So again, it's not something that we recommend because at the end of the day, the client needs to be making these choices. We're here to educate them, help them make sure they understand it fully. And then if they feel like it's something they still want to pursue, we support them in it. Okay. So hopefully that makes sense, but it starts with asking questions. The second part of this person's question, how would I respond as a personal trainer if a client asks me about supplements and if I recommend them because I take them myself? Okay. So this is kind of two parts to this one. How do I respond if someone asks you about supplements? Same way if they ask you about an eating pattern, right? Ask questions. They ask you about a supplement, whatever that may be. What do you know about it? Fill in the gaps, educate them, help them understand how it may or may not impact what they are trying to achieve. So relate it back to them. And then at the end of the day, client, is this still something that you want to take or try? If the answer is yes, what do you need from me? If the answer is no, move on. Okay. So it starts with questions and it starts by understanding what do they know about this thing? Because a lot of people, you guys think about it, food, supplements, whatever, they heard about it on Instagram or their friend does it and they thought it would be cool or it sounded interesting, but they don't know potentially how it might impact them. Let's fill in those blanks for them and let them make an educated decision. That's what we're here for. Okay. And then I love this other part. And we talk about this a lot. If, if you recommend or talk to people about supplements because you take them, some of you guys already know what I'm going to say, just because you take it doesn't mean it's going to help them just because you take it doesn't mean it's appropriate for them. Okay. So my general recommendation personally is don't talk about what you do. Don't talk about what you do. And you guys, I'm sure you all have maybe had it happen or you will, where somebody comes up and says, Oh my gosh, you're doing great things. Oh my gosh, you look amazing. Oh my gosh, whatever. What do you do? What do you eat for breakfast? What do you take for supplements? Resist, resist the urge because even if it's not me saying, well, here's what I do, right? I'm not saying you should do this too. All they hear is, well, Jenny takes this. Jenny has eggs and oatmeal for breakfast. Jenny has it. I'm going to go do that too. That's all they hear. We're human. We hear what we want to hear. And then they're going to go do that thing. And my question becomes then what if they, they don't like it? What if it doesn't work for them? What if they get sick? What if their stomach gets upset? What if it's too expensive? Who are they going to blame you guys? We're human. People want to point fingers at everybody, but themselves. They're not going to say, oh, this doesn't work for me. Maybe I'll try something different because that's the reasonable answer, right? They're going to say, oh, Jenny told me that this is what she did and it didn't work. I don't necessarily trust Jenny anymore. I don't know if I'm going to listen to anything she has to say anymore. You see how that happens? And that's not what I said at all. All I said was I do this, but they say, oh, well, I want to look like you. I want to be like you. I want to perform like you. So I'm going to do that too. So resist the urge to talk about what you do. My response is usually, well, what I do is different. Like I've been doing this for a long time. Let's talk about what might make sense for you. See how you spin that around and say it with a smile. Usually that goes over pretty well. Most people aren't going to be mad about you trying to customize something for them. Okay. So again, resist the urge to talk about what you do. Resist the urge, turn it around, make it about them and help them figure out what's going to work for them. Make sense? Part three of this question, how often should my clients level up on their lifting more weight? So how often should somebody add weight to what they're doing? There is no one answer to this because it depends on the person, right? It depends on how quickly they adapt. It depends on how frequently they're training. It depends on what they're doing, right? At some point, they're going to get accustomed to whatever they're doing, weight-wise, variables, all the other variables. They're eventually going to reach resistance, right? The gas principle. They're going to be used to it. Well, that could happen in a week. It could happen in a couple months. Depends on the person. When they get used to it, if you would like to continue to see changes or adaptations, then change something, right? So that means you need to monitor. We have to be monitoring our clients. And when something is no longer hard or challenging them, then we want to see a different result. We've got to challenge them some more. And it's not always just your weight, by the way. Plenty of variables that you can use. Make sense? And then the last part of this one, what is something important to always remember as a personal trainer? Ooh, I love this question. And I think my gut reaction to this one is personal training is called personal for a reason, right? It's a very much a people business. We are in the business of peopling, whatever that looks like to you. Not everybody's going to be an extrovert. Not everybody's going to be an introvert or somewhere in between, but this is a peopling business. We have to connect with people at the end of the day because you could have the best program ever, best program ever written out, which is relative by the way. But if you can't deliver it or explain it or communicate it, does it matter? I would say no, right? So my biggest thing to remember as a personal trainer is that this is a people business. Get good at peopling. So hopefully that makes sense. All right, next question. What's the best way to do squats for a client who has knee pain or is it better to avoid it? Good question. But I also have follow-up questions. Knee pain. I think we can all agree that knee pain might have different causes, right? Knee pain can have different causes. So I would want to know potentially what causes your knee pain or is there an injury that I need to be aware of? So I have questions to find out what's going on with someone's knee, okay, before I make any suggestions. We should generally have some kind of follow-up questions before we start making suggestions, okay? I have questions and then we can talk about it. So I want to know what's causing this person's knee pain. So they're asking, what's the best way to do squats for someone who has knee pain? Well, once we've figured out what potentially is causing their pain, that's going to give us a lot more information. And if squats are what we're trying to do, my question would be, what are we trying to achieve with our squats, right? So when we're learning as certified personal trainers, we're understanding what muscles are involved in a squat. Generally speaking, it's your quads, your quadriceps, and your glutes, right? That squat movement pattern, quadriceps and glutes create hip and knee extension. So when we understand the movement that way, what are we trying to get out of a squat specifically, okay? Yes, there's a dynamic balance part of it, a stability piece of it, depending on how you're doing the squat. Sure. Is that what you're after? Because we can train that in another way where you're not impacting their knee, right? Same thing if we're trying to train their quads and their glutes, knee extension and hip extension. There are other ways than a squat that we can train those muscles. Does that make sense? So there's no one way to do it, but ask, what are you trying to get out of the squat specifically? And is there another way that we can do that without hurting, bothering, flaring up, injuring their knee based on what we know is going on with them? Okay. So we have some questions to answer first, and then we can find a solution. Love that question. All right. Next question. How do you address a client that doesn't understand proper form for the hip hinge movement? Love this. And we actually talk about this at length in the course. So definitely go back and review some of the videos. And in the chapter four, hinging, and when we talk about the movement patterns, we talk about this. But there is a way to teach the hinge, okay? If you've never tried this, follow along and maybe try it, because if you've experienced it, it makes it a whole lot easier to coach someone else through it. So the hinging, essentially it's a forward and back movement of your hips while the upper body moves down, right? Your hips move back, your torso moves down, and you're hinging, right? Your back generally stays flat, okay? What happens at your knees? You technically could squat or your legs might stay long. There's no wrong way, right? But a hinge is a hip dominated movement, hip hinge, right? Okay. So if you're trying to teach the hip hinge and make sure that they have proper form, you would take like a broomstick, something light, a PVC pipe, a broomstick, something light, not a barbell, something light, and you put it on your back. You'd hold it with one hand against the back of your head and in between your shoulder blades. You take your other hand, put it behind your back, and hold that pipe, broomstick, whatever it is, to your lower back, okay? So your body's nice and upright and you're aligned with the stick. It should have three points of contact, the back of your head, between your shoulder blades, and your lumbar spine, so right above your bottom, okay? Now set your feet however you want to do it, whether it's wide or narrow, doesn't matter. Set your feet and then hinge. As you hinge and push your bottom back, your knees generally stay around the same spot, your hips go back, and your three points of contact should remain in contact with that thing that you're holding behind you. If they don't, you can address it. If your head falls down, you can address it. If it moves away from your back, that probably means you're arching your back, you can address that, right? Engage your core, pull your belly button in, whatever. If it moves away from your lower back, you can address that. Does that make sense? But you're training them or yourself to keep all three points of contact in touch with that broomstick or that dowel to maintain the proper body position for a hinge. That's how you teach a hinge. So if you've never tried it, rewind, what, two minutes and try it. Find a broomstick, a Swiffer Sweeper stick. It doesn't have to be anything crazy, but it can't be heavy. Try it. Here you go. All right, next question. What is the best way to start a client who is medically cleared for exercise but has recently had surgery? Oh, I like this. So you've got the first thing, which is medical clearance. They're cleared by their doctor to exercise. Amazing. Well, hopefully on that note, what else do you think might want to be included? Hopefully their doctor has said if they have any limitations or anything that they shouldn't be doing. That might be good information to know. And I also have a couple extra questions. They recently had surgery. Well, what kind of surgery did you have? You're cleared for exercise. That's great. Generally, I don't need details, but what was your surgery? Like, do you have stitches? Did they tear through muscle? Like, what kind of surgery was done? Because that's going to help me understand what maybe we should or shouldn't be doing, right? And then you'd also assess, just like you would any other client. Any other client. Assess where they're at. What can they do now? And then move forward from there, based on what they're trying to achieve, create a program that's appropriate. So it's not simple, but the steps to take, they're right there. Medical clearance is the first part. What limitations do you have? What surgery did you have? Is there anything I should know? And then assess. Assess. Figure out where they're at right now. Okay. All right. A couple more. The next one says, what do you do if a client doesn't fill out the forms? Ooh, I love this. Well, for me personally, if you don't fill out the forms, we're not training. Because I use that as an initial way to tell stages of change. So think back to the psychology chapter in this course. There's a reason we learned this, right? It's about communication. But there's a big thing on the trans-theoretical model. That's not just words, right? It's the stages of change. Are they ready to make a change? Do they not even recognize that they need to change anything? Are they truly ready to take these steps and figure out a plan? Are they doing it, right? There's a reason we need to know those stages of change. And to me, if I send you a couple forms to fill out, that's just one step. It's not a barrier. It's one step in this process. And if you can't fill out the forms, Mike, it's not that I'm like, oh, you can't train with me. Bye. Let me know when you're ready. But it's a different conversation that I have with this person. What's holding you back? What's keeping you from getting started? Because those forms, you guys, we gather a lot of important information, right? Exercise history, medical history, general information on what are you trying to achieve, right? We're gathering a lot of important information that I need from you, as well as a liability waiver, right? To make sure that they know that they're accepting the risk for exercise. So if you can't fill that stuff out, take the few minutes to fill that out. This is a small fraction of the amount of work or time or effort you're going to have to put in to achieve what you want to achieve. So if you can't do this, are we really ready to go into a program and make some lifestyle changes? Maybe not. Maybe there's another conversation that needs to pay a hat about what's holding you back? What's stopping you? Does that make sense? So I have questions, but if somebody doesn't fill out the forms, I wouldn't just dismiss them. But if you're interested, if you want to engage with them, maybe it's a conversation. What's keeping you from filling this out? What's been holding you back? Because those same things that are keeping them from filling out a piece of paperwork are probably going to hold them back during a program. So let's talk about it now. Let's figure out what those things are so we can at least be aware and maybe start working through those things. So hopefully that makes sense. I like that question. All right, next one. What are the best ways to keep clients coming back and not become repetitive with workouts, even when they're changing the workout loads given each day? So there's a lot of focus on weight in some of these questions. Weight is not the only variable that we can change, is it? So keep that in mind. I just want to point that out. But to keep clients coming back and not become repetitive with their workouts well, have you asked them questions about their preferences? All right, we kind of already talked about this. It's not just, okay, bye, see you tomorrow, or okay, bye, see you next week. It's, how did you like it? Feeling good? Right? They have a shoulder issue. How's your shoulder feeling after all this? Right? Ask questions. Ask for feedback. What didn't you like today? Was there anything that I can do differently is the way I like to ask it. Is there anything I can do differently for you next time? And hopefully you've built enough of a relationship with that person, built enough trust with that person that they feel comfortable telling you the truth, right? Oh, I really didn't like this exercise that we did. I really loved this that we did. Man, I really liked when we were outside doing something. Start taking notes. What did they say they didn't like? What did they say they enjoyed? If they said they enjoyed it, maybe do that some more. Oh, I'll love that. I'll find a way to incorporate that more into your program. They find something that they didn't like, maybe dig a little deeper. What didn't you like about that? Oh, it was hard? Okay. Or, oh, it hurt my shoulder. Oh, okay. Well, let's, let me try a different movement pattern than next time. Do you see what I'm doing here? I'm asking questions. I'm asking for their feedback. Hopefully they're giving you honest feedback and to keep clients coming back, it's got to be exciting. It's got to be fun for them. They have to enjoy it to some degree. We're humans. We're all like that. If you don't enjoy doing something, you might do it begrudgingly. Like, oh, I got to do this. You might do like that for a while, but after a while, what's going to happen, you're probably going to stop showing up and you're not going to say anything. And that's where people ghost us because we didn't do a good job asking questions, finding out what they like, finding out what they didn't like, engaging them in the process, keeping them involved, teaching them what they need to know. See how that works. Okay. So a lot of that falls on us as fitness professionals to keep people engaged and coming back, make sure they're enjoying what they're doing, whatever that means to them. Okay. Great question. All right, guys, we've got three more. If I just want to gain muscle, is it beneficial to also train for endurance once a month along with hypertrophy? So the question is asking, is it beneficial to train for endurance? So like doing some kind of cardiovascular training, I'm assuming is what they're asking. Hopefully you're yelling at your screen. Yes. Cardiovascular training is important and necessary for everyone. How often you do it, how frequently you do it, right? How long it takes, how long you do it for, what you do for your cardiovascular training depends on your goals, right? So I'm a bodybuilder. I love building muscle and large majority of my year is spent building muscle unless I'm preparing for a show. So doing cardiovascular training for maybe 10 or 15 minutes once or twice a week. I know it's going to benefit my heart and my cardiovascular system, but it's not going to necessarily impact me from building muscle. It's not, it's not enough time. It's not enough volume to impact that. If I was running half marathons every week, that's another situation. It doesn't really support building muscle unless I'm eating more and recovering well. Okay. So there's no wrong answers. It's, does this support your goals? Does this support overall health? And then figure out what frequency and what other variables, duration, right? Intensity, what else makes sense for this person? So to answer this question, if I just want to gain muscle, is it beneficial to train endurance once a month along with hypertrophy? Yes, it is beneficial for overall health. So that's the short answer. Do you need to do it more than once a month or all the time? No. Okay. Next question. How often do I have to renew my certification? Ooh, some administrative stuff. How often do I need to renew my certification? And there's a limit to how many courses a person can take to further their education? Oh, love that question. Sky's the limit. As somebody who's been in this industry for 16 years and has many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many certifications and continuing education credits. There's no such thing as too much. Keep learning. Have fun with it. Okay. So there's no limit as to how many courses or like things that you can take or go to or whatever to expand your knowledge. Have fun. The more, the better, in my opinion. So the other question was, how often do I have to renew my certification? With ISSA, the Certified Personal Training Certification and all of our other specializations require you to renew them every two years. Okay. But let me explain something before you panic, especially those of you who have multiple certifications. It's actually a simple process because it's what I like to call a blanket process. So say you have three certifications through ISSA, right? Your CPT and two others. When you go do your continuing education to renew your CPT, you get your 20 course hours. You submit them. Those 20 course hours will also renew any other specializations or certifications you hold with ISSA at the same time. So everything that you hold will be renewed at the same time and they'll all refresh. So you don't have to do 20 CEUs credits for each certification that you hold, guys. It's just every two years, turn in your continuing education and every certification you hold with ISSA will also be renewed at the same time. So hopefully that makes sense. It's a nice, simple process, but there's no limit to what you can do or how much continuing education you can get. Okay. All right. The last question here. Hello, everyone. Hi. I recently got hired as a personal trainer with minimal sales experience. I'm not afraid to talk at all, but I'm not a naturally charismatic or extroverted person. It's the opposite of me, huh? So do you have any advice on how to break out of that shell and make conversation with a potential client feel organic without having the conversation sound like a sales pitch, which a lot of people are accustomed to hearing? I love this question. So if you're not exactly an extrovert, maybe you're a more quiet person, more reserved person, the biggest piece of advice that I would have for you guys, no matter what type of personality you have, right? Big, kind of small, quiet, shy, whatever, be authentic to yourself, right? We kind of talked about it at the beginning of this session here. Personal training is a personal job. It's a people job. So at some point, you're going to have to connect with people. You're going to have to talk to people. So whatever that looks like for you, be true to you because it's really hard to fake it, right? To make stuff up. That's why people like lying is bad because the longer that lie goes on, the more you have to remember. It's not efficient. At some point, it's going to blow up in your face. If you walk into a gym and you put on this hat where you're somebody completely different than you are, people can see through that, first of all. And second of all, you're going to be really tired of doing that after a while. So be true to you. If you're more of a quiet person, be that quiet person. A person of few words, right? Have fun with it. Me, I'm always like this. I always laugh because I am literally like this. This is just me. This is my personality. I'm excitable. I'm excited. But also learn how to match the people that are around you, right? So if I'm having a communication with somebody who's more quiet, more reserved, I'll slow down the pace that I'm talking at. I'll bring my voice down and I'll slow down the way that I'm speaking. I'll match what they're giving me as to not overwhelm them, right? I'm not mocking them. I'm not mimicking them. I'm matching. It's called matching and mirroring, right? If you're talking to somebody who uses their hands a lot, you can do that too. If you're talking to somebody who doesn't use their hands a lot, maybe be aware that you do, right? Because to them, that might be overwhelming. Does that make sense? So it's not like I'm not doing anything other than trying to match them and make them more comfortable. If I come across somebody who's really big and excitable, I can match that. Absolutely, right? But if you're more of an introvert, it doesn't mean you have to match them perfectly, but maybe you need to bump up your energy level just a little bit, right? Or at least learn how to manage that person. If they're just super excited and blah, blah, blah, and you're more quiet, okay, we're excited. All right. Why is this exciting for you, right? Find a way to interact with that person where you can still be true to yourself, but honor them as well. Honor their personality and the way that they like to interact with people as well. So hopefully that makes sense. I love this question and we do get that a lot. Not everybody is extroverted. Some people are more quiet or more shy or just more reserved and that's fine. Be true to yourself. Be true to yourself because people can see through it if you're not. And it's going to get really exhausting if you try and be someone that you're not, okay? But always be yourself so that anytime anybody interacts with you, they're always getting the same you. They're getting the same you. It's recognizable, right? People come to me because they know what they're going to get from me. That's why I'm so successful as a fitness professional myself. People that come to me, that seek me out, and that want to train with me, they know what they're going to get from me and they want that. The people who don't train with me, that's fine. There's somebody for everybody and I only need a handful of clients. I don't need every client and I'm not for everybody. You're not for everybody, right? But the people who want you and need you will seek you out because of you. So be you. Love that question. And that's a fabulous one to end on. So thanks guys for coming back. After hours, office hours. We'll keep these coming as the questions roll in, but make sure to check out the link in your course and you can review the recording from the live session as well. So thanks for being here guys. It's always a good time and I will see you guys next week. We're heading into June 17th is next Monday. So have a good weekend you guys. I'll see you soon.