 AC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC ACTIVIC she uses something called TrueCoach, which is a partner of ISSA. Great platform, one of many, let's be honest. But I want to know how she uses this platform. I have with me Angela Gargano. Welcome, Angela. Thank you so much for having me. Yes, super excited to hear about you. So I know that you've done quite a few things. So will you tell our listeners or our watchers a little bit about you and some of the things that you've done? Yeah, I mean, definitely have an extensive background. So if you want to hear like my titles, I've been on American Ninja Warrior six times, which is pretty wild. I also won Miss Fitness America in 2016. And right now I've been on three different covers of magazines, Oxygen Magazine, Women's Health, a local magazine. But more importantly, what I do is I actually have been helping women specifically conquer their pull-ups online. I used to do it in person. And as a trainer, you know, my experience is I owned my own physical gym for about two years. So I worked, I've done the whole like 5am to like 9pm training people every single day where I learned a ton about what, you know, different types of, you know, beginner to intermediate to advanced age levels. You learn a lot by doing. So definitely did a lot of in person. Then I wound up shutting down that gym. And I was working in New York City for a while. So I was working with a lot of, you know, celebrities, things along those lines, a little bit different, but I was more there to really learn from the trainers that were in that space. So I could really learn about the techniques they use so that I could bring it to my clients. And now I'm physically completely online. We have an award winning pull-up program. Like I said, we primarily cater to just women to help them conquer their pull-up, which has been really exciting. And yeah, we've been at this for, I was looking at since like 2018, I've been doing this online. That's awesome. So we'll definitely get to your online coaching, but Angela, I'm actually curious, and this is kind of off script, but there's a lot of people out there who want to open their own facilities. Can you talk to us a little bit about what that experience was like and maybe some reasons why you ended up leaving that space? For sure. I mean, I think that what happens is a lot of times you're training, maybe you're training out of a facility or maybe I was training, I was like renting space from a spot that I was at for a while, right? And then all of a sudden I went from like not having a ton of clients to like a lot of clients. And the next thing is like, they're all like, when are you going to open your own gym? When are you going to do it? And I just was like, okay, like whatever. I guess what I didn't personally realize when I first started out, this is when I was obviously much younger, but I'm very like messy action girl. Like I'll just go for it. There's a lot more that goes into it when you open a gym. You definitely turn in from being, you know, you're primarily working with your clients, which is so important. You're going to still do that. But now when you own a physical location, when I went up finding a spot to rent, you know, you have other things to worry about, right? So you've got to worry about, you know, the accounting, the landlord stuff, the cleaning, the, you know, taking care of the bathrooms, there's other stuff that you're going to have to work on, as well as paying the employees, making sure that people are actually paying you because now you have an overhead of a whole space that you need to take over. So while I a hundred percent love working with my clients, the other things were things that I just kind of, you know, I had to learn as I get, as I went, but I don't know what I was thinking in my head. I was like, I'm going to open this gym and it's just going to be the same. I'm just going to work with clients all the time. But there's a lot of other things that go into owning a business and opening a gym. So sometimes I feel like if that's something that someone on here like wants to do, if you want to open a gym, I'm so happy I had that experience. I thought it was great. The reason why I stopped doing it is because I realized that I really wanted to travel more and, you know, do all these different things. And it's really tough to do that when you have your own facility. I mean, it's really going to take a while for that to be, be a thing. Some people are super happy with just staying at their gym all the time. They don't want to leave like whatever that's totally for you. But for me, I was like, I want to go travel and do these things. And I couldn't do those things when I owned my physical facility. So that's why I stopped doing it. Yeah. And thank you for being real with that. Cause some people don't realize like, oh yeah, I can't take vacations. Oh yeah. I can't leave. Oh yeah. I don't really get days off. Right. Especially if you want to be hands-on and in it, like you're there every day. And I've owned a business that wasn't fitness related, but I had a dog daycare, fun fact. And I was one of those people like dogs are people's children. There you go. You're a little guy. You see my little nugget. Yes. But dogs are people's kids. Right. And so I didn't, I, it's, of course I trusted my staff, you know, but I wanted to be there every day to make sure that it was running exactly how I needed it to run. People felt good. Right. I was there with, I knew all the animals. Right. So I get it. And you just. Yeah, for sure. It's the same exact thing. A hundred percent. Like you love the people, all the things, but then they're not seeing too, all the extra pressure that is put on you now, now that you do own your own facility. Right. They're not paying on time, stuff like that's happening. You're like, oh, like I know you're on a personal level, but like, come on. Yeah. It's a whole nother animal. So speaking of talk to us about that transition from the physical location that you owned into online. First of all, was it an easy transition? And then secondly, like, what did that process look like for taking your clients online? For sure. I mean, definitely wasn't an easy transition. Like, first of all, I felt like I was like disappointing everybody by like shutting down this gym. Cause you create like a family and you know, whatever. But you know, luckily I sat back and I realized, you know what, they're going to be okay. I made sure they were super taken care of. I, there's a lot of gyms that were in that area and I connected them with them and I made sure they went and I, you know, I just made sure they like had a place to go next. Cause I think that was really important for me. Um, so yeah, shutting it down was really tough for sure. I didn't make any money off the end of it. Like, you know, you lose, like after all of that. Um, and I actually wound up, the transition was tough at first. I actually moved back at home, which was like so tough. And I was living back with my dad. He wasn't really ever home. It's in New Jersey. So I would like commute into the city and I really kind of had to pick myself back up from the ground up. Like I literally was at zero, like, okay, cool. What do I need to do? But with the last money that I had, I actually invested in just like finding a coach online to help me figure out how to even online coach. Cause it's very much different to do it online. Um, and that's why I was really happy that I did. I found true coach like super early, like on, I think a lot of people are finding it now, but I had it for a while because you're like, okay, how do I take this experience that I had with them in person and make them feel that same feeling online when I'm not physically like right there next to them. So the first thing I did was definitely learn, like went through the course with this, this woman who just taught us more like how to market, try and figure out who you want to work through. And she was great with like the same as me, like just messy action, like just post on Instagram, say that you're getting clients. And she was very big on like, don't build too much out yet. Because when you first start online, like you're going to figure out your style and what works for you by working with people first one-on-one. So, um, God, interestingly, like I was so, so surprised I got like a good, like five women, which is so great. Um, and just kind of went from there, figured out, you know, did my normal kind of evaluation, but did it online to see where they're at. And I really built the program around them and like what they needed. And I learned a lot of like how they felt supported, how much I actually really needed to check in on them. Right. Cause I feel like, especially like you said, what your dog did care, like you feel like when you're not with them, like you want to check in on them all the time. And that can also turn into something that's not healthy either. Right. Cause you need to be able to like, also like live your life and you're like, I'm trying to check in all the time, but then you realize they don't actually need all of that, right. Support. They do need check-ins and stuff like that, but you figure out what works for you and your lifestyle and you figure out what works for them. I think the biggest transition with it was reminding myself that the reason I stopped owning my gym is because I wanted to create something that worked for me. Um, and it almost felt like selfish to say that, but it's like, what works for me? That's still going to give them the same result. Um, that I'm not going to have to, I'm not so crazy over delivering, um, on things. And again, that sounds like you're not giving them what they need, but you literally are like, you're still giving them everything. It's just not being obsessed about it all the time, checking in on true coach all the time and seeing it like, it's like, okay, cool. Check on them like twice a week. Have us have it, have your office hours, like laid out, that kind of thing. Um, so yeah, I think the biggest transition was first just figuring out how specifically you're going to train them online and get everyone's styles a little bit different. I really started getting my rhythm and like what was really working for me. Um, and then, uh, yeah, did all the stuff on true coach and gets, had a bunch of clients on there. And then once I started developing programs, I started realizing, you know, seeing very similar things over and over again, similar people figuring out the people I really wanted to work with and those things. So then you start to come, you know, figure out basically your template for what your training program is going to be like. And you would make the adjustments based on that. And true coach is great about that, right? Because after you do that all like with one client, you can take that, you can turn it into a template and then you can figure out, you know, what adjustments you want to make. Like I, there were so many times I had literally same exact situations. Okay, cool. I'm going to use the same template. It worked. We know it worked. Um, maybe I had adjust a few days around because the person's schedule is different, which is totally fine. Um, and then you're really figuring that out. And now that I have that whole template because of true coach. Now my pull up program is very passive. It's a program that's already made. Um, that one's not hosted on a true coach anymore, but I literally still utilize your coach for other, like for small group training and stuff like that as well. But it was so helpful because I went through so many different templates and versions of that program so that I was able to develop it. And now the one program that I have, it's, it works over and over again for all the people coming into it. I love that Angela, and you're bringing up some really good points. So I'm a fitness professional myself of 16 years now, and I use true coach for my college athletes. Um, and you're pointing out some really great features of true coach, which I love, which is that you can create like a program essentially, and then you can assign different people to it and have them have different start dates in that program. You're starting on day one, this person's starting on day 10, right? You can basically mold it to what you need it to be for each person, but it's like a couple clicks versus having to create an entire program for each person. So I love that you're doing that. I love that. Like the whole PDF letter. Yeah. Yeah. And I love that you're pointing that out because some people like to overcomplicate. Oh, can you hear me now? Yeah. Uh, yeah. When you said over, when you say overcomplicate, a hundred percent, I feel like a lot of trainers are overcomplicating in it and it doesn't need to be overcomplicating. Like the, the basic stuff works. Like it doesn't need to be crazy. Um, and what I love so much about it as well, if you, if you are on here and haven't used the platform as well, and the biggest thing is some, you know, trainers I've had before will send me a full Excel sheet, but then like no links to like what the videos are, or they're sending me like videos, like in a separate thing. And I have to like find them and click them and watch them. And it's like super annoying. True coach is great because you create, they have exercise library on there, but I created my own. Um, but once you type in whatever movement it is to, it literally puts it directly. Like that movement is now directly a video in there for your clients. So now you're not like searching and they're not searching. They're right there. They're going through it. They're able to click the video, watch you and how you perform it this way. It's making it seamless for them to show up. Right. Because you know, nobody, I know for me, I'm I, that, that'd be too, that's too much for me. When they give me like a thing, there's an, I don't know what this movement means and stuff like that. And then the videos are scattered around. It's all in like one nice organized place. Absolutely. And you brought up another thing that I want to ask you about. So you created your own video library, which is super easy to do. You basically just shoot a video. You can put it on YouTube or link it from your phone if you're on your phone, but YouTube is easy. Cause then you have a library, you link it, and then they see you talk to me about the benefits of putting you on there versus using a random exercise library. Yeah. I mean, I really loved using myself because one, I feel like they feel a little more connected to me, but also, um, I actually put voiceovers on all of mine. So I'm not talking through it. You can do that if you want to, I just have me doing the movement and then there's a voiceover in the back and it's just explaining different cues that I have for that movement. Um, and then it's a great place for like, let's say that movement has some modifications and things that you always see come up from the people that you had in person. Um, you can now put those modifications in there as well. Like if it's pushups, okay, cool. Here's the pushup. If you don't feel comfortable with your pushup just quite yet, like here, you can do it on an incline. Like, so you kind of can tell them all those different things in that one video. But yeah, I think that makes it a little bit more personal and every coach is so different with how they cue things, which I think is so special. Like I love the way I, I cue things sometimes like the, like I used to coach a gymnast. So it's like children sometimes, but they love that, right? They're like, Oh, I remembered when you said to pretend like you're squeezing oranges in your armpits. Um, and then, you know, so they're really listening to those things. So I definitely feel like doing the library is very beneficial. If you do put it on YouTube, you put them unlisted. It's great. And this way you can now utilize those videos for a million other things as well. Um, they never get lost. Um, and I also find that true coach is great. I'll go in there. Like when someone messages me on Instagram about a move and they're like, Oh, like I was wondering about this one move or something, I'll go into true coach. You can like search the movement. And I just can literally easily get the link then super organized and just send that to them in there as well. I love that. And I love that you're talking about this because you're adding your personality to it too, right? Your cues. I love that you even put modifications in your videos because some people will watch a video that has no sound or it's just like music in the background. And they're like, are there elbows bent? Where's their hand? I don't, I can't quite tell. Right. But yeah, you're able to talk them through it from start to finish as if they were there. So I love that. And yeah. And you know how it is too, right? You, I mean, I, this happens to me all the time. I'm very slow learner. I might watch a video and then your client goes to perform the, the, the movement they think they're doing it right. Cause like, they're just like kind of going to the video and then the video, cause it was so cool also about true coaches. They can video their movement and send it back to you so you can give them four impressions. Right. And, um, then what's, what's great about that is they might've watched that video and like really had no idea. Like just, okay, cool. You come back on there, you give them some, some advice. Hey, you know what? Make sure your elbows are like this and stuff like that. So you can really help them. So yeah, that's why videos are so important to be super clear because even if it's a great video, they might still have things that they just like, no, it doesn't quite click right away. And that's okay. That's what you are there for to be, to be a coach, but definitely it being you, I feel like makes it much more personal. Nice. I love that. Um, and yes, I've had clients like professional athlete clients that didn't know how to squat and I didn't know until they sent me a video and I was like, Oh God, what are you doing? Like, that's not it. We're going to, well, great start. Yeah. I was like, uh, is that how you always squat? And he was like, yeah. I was like, Ooh, no wonder your backwards. I love that. Now as an early adopter of the true coach, and then I have a couple of questions about this American Ninja warrior thing we're going to get, but as an early adopter of true coach, um, are there any features that are available now that you saw them like add along the way that you're like, Oh, this is a game changer. Oh, I really like this feature. Are there any features like that? For sure. I mean, I definitely like, it's so funny. I'm, I'm, I try and get pretty involved with them. Cause I have so many, I'm like, you just, if you did this is just be such a game changer. And they definitely have been adding a bunch of different features. One of the ones I really liked that they just added was, um, the group messaging, um, before you could like message everybody like separately in one broadcast, which is great. But like, I was always like the biggest thing, especially as you know, you start training, you'll notice that you could definitely do group programs, make more money with clients, get an amazing experience. So now what you can do is you can put them all into a group chat, um, with you and any other coaches you might have linked on there as well. And everyone can communicate in that group chat, which is important because community accountability, that kind of stuff is going to help them continue to show up. So really happy that they add to that. Um, they added the habit tracker, although I haven't able to be able to fully, um, you said yet, but I think that's great. Cause what you'll notice as you do your, you work with your clients is it's not just the workouts, right? They were, you know, go, go, how are you walking? Like there's a lot of like basic things they may not be doing. So I love what they added the habit tracker. I'm trying to think of what else they added. They added like so many different things as like I've had it for so long. Um, I think those are the two big ones that I really was excited that they had added. Nice. Yeah, I agree. I like the calendar view and how you can build the workout on the calendar instead of taking you to another page, like other apps that I use or have used in the past. Like when you click on the calendar, it takes you to a different window to build the workout, not in the calendar, which makes it so much easier to edit as well. Oh my God. Yeah. Cause especially as a trainer, right? It's like, it's almost like an art, like you're trying to adjust things. You want to add that. Then you're like, should I want to make sure they have enough, this movement. It's literally like an art when you're doing it. So it's so great to see the overview of it. Yes. And like, you can see the next day and a couple of days ahead, you can scroll down and see that and then just go right back to it instead of having to change windows all the time. For sure. Oh, but wow. I've never worked with another one. So that would have drove me crazy. Yeah, it does. It makes me, so I have it open in like different tabs. So I can see, well, what is their last week look like? What is next week look like? Right. And then this is the workout that I'm building and I have to flip between tabs and it is annoying. Oh yeah. That would make me crazy. Especially because a lot of the stuff we're doing, it's repetitive, right? It's like progressive overload stuff. It's like, you're doing the first week is pretty base, like base, basic stuff. And then you start to advance it a little bit depending on how they did or what adjustments you need to make. So very important to be able to look at it and see what happened. Yes. Okay. I'm glad I'm not the only one who loves that. So, okay. Now, Angela, I want to talk to you about some meat and potatoes here. American Ninja Warrior. I heard you used to be a gymnast and you train gymnasts. So that might be your lead in there. And then talk to me how that ended up with your pull-up program. Oh yeah. Super wild. So basically, yeah, I went on American Ninja Warrior because I was really looking for like that next thing. I had done like fitness competitions in between gymnastics, but I'm sure you were an athlete as well, right? I feel like, you know, like how it is like, for me, when college athletes was over, I was like, what am I doing? Like, I don't want to do it myself. So I was like trying to find things to do. So the second one was like, okay, fitness competitions. I was kind of still kind of doing gymnastics because that's like all the acrobatic type stuff. But I was looking for like the next thing and people were like, oh, you were really good on the bars and gymnastics. You'd probably be great at American Ninja Warrior. And I honestly don't watch a ton of TV. So I didn't even know what it was. So my friend convinced me to apply, applied to the show. I went, I'm getting on. I was like, oh my goodness, I don't know how to ninja. Like, what do we even do? And because I only had a few weeks to train for it and find how to ninja, I started to fall in love with the sport. And it was really great about the sport. I really feel like it really challenged me in a completely different way. For fitness competitions, yeah, you were being athletic, but it was about like what your body looked like. Okay, you got to be toned. You got to be lean, blah, blah, blah. Ninja Warrior doesn't matter if you're like toned and lean or whatever. It's like, can you get through the obstacle? Like, are you going to be able to physically like make it? So what I loved is like that real transition from focusing on what I looked like to my strength. And that's what really started happening with my clients, right? My clients were coming into me and they were like, oh, so cool. That's your own American Ninja Warrior. I've always just wanted to be able to do a pull up. And I'm like, okay, so like, let's get a pull up. And immediately they'd say like, I'm never going to be able to do that. Like I'm in my forties or my fifties. Like I couldn't do it in high school. Like, how am I gonna be able to do that now? And I'm like, well, if we try, we 100% can make it happen and make it a reality for you. And in the process of doing this with them, of helping them get their pull up and giving them drills and things along those lines, you start to see like a confidence build about them. Like they started to feel more confident in their body and more confident about, you know, just in, if I can, if they're doing this impossible move, like they could do a million of these things in their life they didn't think they could do before. So I really transitioned into just focusing on pull ups because of that. I feel like it's a great gateway to everything else. Right. And I feel like it's really important if you're training online to really niche down, you don't have to niche down like me and be like just a pull up person, but there's a lot of people out there doing everything. But what if you could do something like, like one thing, very, very like, well, like that's, that's what we focus on. And again, it's the gateway. They come in, they get their pull up with me. And then we have on True Coach, the next program, which is Strong Feels Good. So they focus on, you know, they're incorporating their pull ups into full body workouts. So I think really important, you know, for trainers on there to know that as well, figure out like what it is that you're so good at and like really focus on that. And that will bring them in. And then it will help them with so many other things. But yeah, the pull ups just it really, for me, it was about that look on their face when they finally got it. I was like, this is so special. This is so much more than just the pull up. It's like they say a lot. I can't remember what they say. People say like, they come in wanting one thing, but you give them what they like, they really needed and said, which I think is really special. They know what they want and you gave them what they needed. Exactly. Right. They come in, they want their pull up. They came out more confident, feeling better with their body, ready to try the next thing. Like, it's so exciting to see that. So that's why I leaned more into that one thing and that one niche. But again, it took me years. Like I didn't, for a lot of people, I think that sometimes they want to like make these online programs and like sell them like just the same program to everybody. But like, I really refined it over and over and over again with one-on-one people to really make sure that it was, it was a good fit. And once I felt like it was a good fit for whoever came in, then I created it into a program that like everyone does now. So really important to kind of sit down, refine, figure out what you're really good at, what you're excited about for them. Oh, it's like you're inside my brain. You're taking all the words right out of my mouth. So I love that you're saying this because the biggest point for me is anybody who's interested in doing this and kind of finding their niche is you chose something that means something to you that you're good at, right? That resonates with you. And then you built something around it. And so it's, you show up every day to this program with passion versus, oh, I just picked this because I thought it would make money. Right? Exactly. It's the next fad thing. It's like, whatever. I'm like, no, I'm ignoring all of that. Like, I don't care what the next fad thing is. We're going to stick to our method. And also, yeah, like you said, being really passionate about it. I think since there is a lot of noise out there in the industry, in the space, like I tell people when they come into the program, I'm like, this is my approach to getting this pull up. Like I do it differently. Like this is how I do it. There's probably a million other ways to get the pull up. Like, well, that's okay. And that's totally fine. But yeah, when you show up and you're passionate and you really, you really believe in like your method and what you're doing, they're going to believe it too. Right? If you're like, oh, I don't know. Someone told me that this is not supposed to do it this way. And I need to do it like this and change that. Like, no, just be really confident in your method. And it will do super well. Love it. So where can people find you, your programs, more about you? Where can they find you on True Coach? Give me everything and I'll type it and we'll put it in the description for the episode. Yeah, of course. So my Instagram is at Angela underscore Gargano. So it's just my name. And then if you want to check out the pull up revolution, we, our Instagram is literally at pull revolution. So they can find us on there. And typically what we do to bring people in, I mean, everyone has their different ways, but we do free workshops. So I do a free workshop every single month for pull ups to teach women. Like again, very, we go through just like my process and we get them really excited. And then we, and then that's how we get people into the pull up program to do these things. And again, then it goes into strong feels good, which is on True Coach blah, blah, blah. So it kind of goes down the line there. But yeah, basically Angela and Angela underscore Gargano and pull up revolution is the best place to find me message me all those things. And we're really, I'm really been thinking about lately. We're probably going to do this towards the end of the year. So we have a lot going on, but helping women, helping people get certified and being a pull coach for women. So I've had a lot of coaches take the program and they're like, can you please like make this a certification? And I'm like, it's on my list. So we'll probably try and make it something certified so that other coaches can learn how to speak specifically to a woman as they're doing this really impossible task and show them a method if they want to use it. Very cool. I love that. So we will keep an ear out for that. Please let us know when you've got that up and going and we'll absolutely tell everybody all about it. For sure. Very cool. Well, thank you so much for your time, Angela. This has been really cool. Thank you.