ШАbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbasesbases Plus, everybody always has good follow-up questions. And we really seek for you guys to really understand this information. And we want to make sure we're answering your guys' questions. So keep them coming in. But, John, we've got a handful, quite a few, big handful of questions that we didn't get to last week, which was the week of September 6th, week ending September 6th. So it is now September 9th. It's a Monday when John and I are recording this. Hopefully, this will be out for you guys by the 10th or the 11th. So you guys can check it out and hopefully hear your question if you didn't hear it on Friday. But, John, you ready to dive into some of the questions? These are all from the CPT office hours on Friday, the 6th of September. Yeah, let's go. All right. Well, I'll kick us off. Where we left off here, John, there's a question that says, Is it better to work out of one gym and direct clients to a familiar space or to be flexible and allow clients to work out at a gym of their choosing? So I have a couple questions to follow up with this one. Because when we say a gym of their choosing, I don't know what that means. Because generally speaking, you guys, if you are training clients, especially if you're taking money for it, you should be employed by the place that you are training them at. Either employed at or have some kind of contract or relationship with them where you have an agreement. Just be in that space. Does that make sense? Because most fitness facilities have their own trainers. And if you come in, say, I go to John's gym, right? John has his own set of trainers that work there. People can sign up with them. I show up with my client, Susan, and we start working out, right? I may or may not be working out with Susan. Same thing, you guys. It's still frowned upon, okay? But if I'm training Susan and it clearly looks like I'm training Susan or we're working out together and I'm clearly directing Susan, that's an issue, right? I could get kicked out. We could both get kicked out. They could cancel my membership there, whatever it may be. So it's generally frowned upon to train clients in a space where you do not work or do not have a relationship or a contract with them to do so. Does that make sense? Now, if you're training, if Susan wants to go train in her garage, that's another story, right? Or Susan wants to go train in the park, that's another story. Susan wants to go train at a community center where they don't have trainers and they said it's okay that we do that, that's another story. So there's no wrong answer here. It's do you have the right permissions to be training in certain spaces? If it's a space that's not yours or a place that you don't work at, I would just make yourself known and ask the question, what do I need to do in order to bring Susan here to train? Anything you would add for that, John? Yeah, I think this is something that gets misunderstood a lot because I think on the trader side, sometimes it feels innocent enough, you know? But you're actually imposing on another business, you know, and you're taking advantage of something that that business has worked toward, worked for, invested in, etc. My common example I use for this is like if you went into a Subway sandwich and then you just set up on one of the tables and you start making some paninis for sale, like I think you'd understand that Subway sandwich would be like, hey, you can't, I can't have you in here making your paninis. And kind of the same way, you can't go into another fitness business and run your own business in there. Yeah, I love that example. And it makes so much sense when you hear it like that, but people don't equate the two. So, yeah. So, great question. It depends on where you're training them. Do you have a relationship or a contract to be able to be there? Do you work there? Or is it just a free-for-all space, right? So that would kind of dictate your answer to that one. Cool. Yeah. And, you know, another way I'm interpreting that question is, you know, is it better to just have one place that you work or try to work in multiple places? And it could be better either way, depending on how you do it. But more often than not, like especially when you're newer, it's better to just do well in the one place, put your focus in one place. Because you might end up spending a lot of time just on the road and traveling, going to people's home gyms where maybe they just don't have much stuff. Maybe you don't have much stuff to bring. So, it proposes – it brings its own set of challenges when you're having to bounce all over the place. And it can be a lot. I mean, but you might like it. And if you're charging a premium for the travel and all that, because if you're driving like half an hour to get to someone, that should be a part of the charge. Then good. That could be a good way to do it. But having to bounce all over town, especially if you live somewhere busy, can make it tough. Agreed. All right. Next question. Can you train other body parts if, say, a leg was injured? Did you just keep training upper body? Very timely. Because I have a little injury going on. So, first of all, if, like, let's just say you're not 100%, but, you know, there's still things you can do, then I think for the most part I'd say, yeah, do that. Do them. Because you don't want to have, like, your one foot injury all of a sudden mean that now the rest of your body is ruined. That's not what it means, right? You can still take care of yourself. You're just going to have to alter the way that you approach your training. I currently have a hip issue. So, you know, the hip is a major joint, so that gets in the way of doing something. So I'm not out there playing a bunch of pickup basketball or anything like that. But I still train regularly. And then some of my hip-based exercises are not so loaded, not so heavy, not so fast. I'm still making sure that I move my hips in order to make sure that they don't tighten up even further. But all I've done is alter my training program rather than, you know, forego it. Yeah, I agree with that. And also, I would dare say it depends on the type of injury or the issue with your leg, right? So some injuries, especially if it's recent, you might need to have your leg elevated, right? I always use the example, one of my clients just had his Achilles rupture, and he's six weeks post-op. But in the first two or three weeks, he couldn't do a lot of stuff where his leg was down. He needed to have it, like, at 90 degrees from his hip or elevated. So that changes what you can and cannot do, doesn't it? So you need to pay attention to any restrictions somebody might have like that, depending on the injury. Awesome. Okay, next question here. For someone who has high blood pressure, who's taking an antihypertensive medication, is weightlifting recommended? What changes should be made to their exercise program compared to an individual without high blood pressure? Love this question. There's a whole chapter in your course, by the way, you guys, on special populations. And we talk about common chronic health conditions that clients might have. Hypertension is one of them. So what I'm telling you is all of this information I'm about to go over is absolutely in your course textbook. So definitely take a look. Okay? But it starts with understanding what is hypertension. It's chronic high blood pressure, depending on who you ask, 140 over 90, 130 over 90 or above, depending on who you ask, what organization you go through. But it's elevated blood pressure. Well, what is blood pressure? It's the pressure in your blood vessels when your heart is pumping, right? Contracting, relaxing, systolic, diastolic, systolic, diastolic. Okay? So when we understand that basic concept, what system does high blood pressure impact? Your cardiovascular system, your heart, and your lungs. Okay? So that can help you understand what changes you should make for someone who has high blood pressure, right? First of all, doctor's clearance. Are they cleared for physical activity? You might want to get that in writing. And their doctor can also tell you if there's any limitations that this person should adhere to because every person will be individual. So I would strongly suggest getting a doctor's note with listing of limitations that this person might have. Some things to consider, though. Holding their breath. What does that do to your blood pressure? Bearing down. It raises your blood pressure. If your blood pressure is already high, probably not the best idea. So breathe freely, right? The intensity that we work at. The higher the intensity, the harder your heart is pumping, the higher your blood pressure goes. Kind of makes sense. So we might need to reduce the intensity that we're working at. Moderate to lighter intensities. It doesn't mean they can't exercise. We know exercise is good for our cardiovascular system. But we just don't need to do super high intensity stuff. Okay? So reduce the intensity of our training. We need to make sure we're including a warm-up and a cool-down to prepare their cardiovascular system for activity. And then help it recover from that activity. Kind of a no-brainer there. And then also body position matters. Okay? Body position matters. Going from a lying to a standing or a lying to a seated or a seated to a standing position. So changing body position frequently. What does that do to your blood pressure? For some people, it makes it go up. For some people, it makes it go down. Bottom line is it changes your blood pressure. Okay? Things where you go up and down, up and down, up and down. Like burpees. Probably not a good idea. Or modify it where you're not. The up and down is not so severe, right? So you can do them on an incline, for example. But the example I always give for this, to close this out, guys. If somebody has high blood pressure and they're doing a bench press, cool. They can lay down. Well, instead of having them sit up or stand up in between their sets, why don't you just have them lay in that position? Don't move. Stay there. Maybe do another movement in that same body position. Lying supine on the bench. And then finish all of your sets before you have them change their body position. Do you see how simple that can be? But it starts with understanding what is the condition? What system are we talking about? And how is that system impacted? Okay? So great question. But yes, this is all in your textbook. When utilizing your expertise as a trainer, as a whole, and combining all the knowledge of a master trainer with six certifications, is it safe to use all forms of specialization to help your client? Or should you just focus on one way of training? So this is an interesting question. And I'll first start off by saying this. It depends on the specializations you have. But because your client might not need all of your knowledge. They might not need everything that you have. Jenny and I have a million certifications between us. And our clients maybe need some of that information and not all of it. Right? Like I used to teach a lot of people how to be running coaches. So I could do a pretty good job teaching someone how to run. But if that's not something that they're looking for, something that they need, then we just wouldn't do it. So it's not that you're limiting your services by limiting how much information you're giving them. You have to understand what they want and what they want to achieve. And that'll dictate what areas of focus and what areas of your expertise you will use. So really, that's it. Now, there are some things that are general, right? Like nutrition is a topic that can be talked about with everyone because everyone eats. And everyone could probably learn a little something about how to eat better. But again, in my example of running as a specialization, not everyone's going to need that. So it really does depend. So congratulations on being a masterful trainer, but your clients will not need all of your information. Yep. Yep. I love that. All right. Next one, John. How long should I go into the field and shadow someone before I actually start personal training yourself? So meaning shadow somebody, get information, get some experience before you start taking on your own clients. There is no one answer to this. Some people are fine just going out there and figuring it out and starting on their own. Some people might need a little bit more guidance or want that structure of shadowing a mentor. So there's, I don't really have one answer for this, right? It depends on each of you guys and how much guidance or time you feel that you need to kind of get comfortable with what you're doing. But also know, recognize you guys, when you start a new career, right? When you go into something that you've never done before, it doesn't matter what it is. You could be a garbage person now, right? Or you could be going into banking or something, right? If you've never done it before, there's going to be a learning curve, right? You're going to go into it with whatever base knowledge you have of that thing, right? You guys all have your certification or are working on it. You're going to have that base knowledge. Well, we recognize that every situation that you come across is not going to necessarily be straight out of a textbook. So you might have to do some critical thinking or go back to the drawing board, take some notes and kind of figure some stuff out as you go. So just know that that's going to be with any career. So don't expect to go into anything knowing everything. Nobody does. No doctor, no lawyer, no teacher, no fitness professional have ever gone into their career knowing everything that they need to know. So don't set that expectation for yourself because you're no different, right? You're going to know what you know, and then you're going to learn along the way. So be okay with that. Be okay with being like, oh, that didn't work. What do I do now, right? But yeah, so if you need to shadow somebody, if you want to shadow somebody and take a mentor, absolutely. By all means, please do it. But how long you need to do that, that completely depends on you and at what point you feel comfortable and ready to go out there and give it that old college try for yourself. Yeah, and also add shadowing is just like hands-on learning, right? So that never has to end. And I still think for a lot of things that we do, hands-on learning, meaning being around someone where you're actually seeing it being done or maybe being taught how to do something is one of the best things you can do for yourself. So it doesn't have to end once you start becoming a trainer. Next question. When teaching hinge movements, is it best to demonstrate without weights first? Maybe. Maybe. I mean, they just have to see the movement pattern, understand the movement pattern, and then be able to do the movement pattern. So if you're talking about for your client, if you want them to learn the movement pattern first without weights, then maybe. Or maybe start light. It certainly makes sense to start light, right? You don't want the heaviness of it to get in the way of them being able to perform the movement correctly in the first place. That's why you would start slow. You would start light. So, again, it doesn't have to necessarily be without weight, but I would probably start not heavy and not fast so that we can learn the movement properly. And then as far as the hip hinge, there's different techniques, different tools that you can use in order to make sure the hinge is happening correctly. But, yeah. So you don't have to demonstrate without weights, but I would keep it slow and low weight at first and just make sure that the movement is happening correctly, and then you can move on up. Love it. All right. Next up. When planning workouts and the person's goal is to build muscle, wouldn't all workouts help with building muscle, or would it be more based off of what the client is eating? So I like this question. And when you say all workouts, I'm not quite sure what that means, but are you saying, like, basically doing anything can build muscle? Not necessarily. Right? Chapter 12 is all about resistance training in your textbook, you guys. There's four primary goals that you can achieve with resistance. Right? We have building muscle size. Right? So that's what we're talking about on this one. But you can also increase muscle strength, the amount of force that muscle can create, muscle endurance, the ability to do more work without fatiguing, and also muscle power, creating maximum force as quickly as possible. Okay? But each of those goals, you'll notice the variables are slightly different. How we go about achieving each of those adaptations, those four things that we can achieve in resistance training is different. So no, all workouts, just doing anything will not necessarily build muscle. The variables need to be correct. And I'll tell you, as somebody who has very much experience with building muscle, and John and I study this ad nauseum, we can tell you that it's not that it's easy, but it's not as complicated as people like to make it seem. Okay? Building muscle is built on training volume, and the science supports anywhere from 20 to 30 sets of exercise to one or two reps in reserve. So almost fatigue, which most people don't achieve, by the way, but almost to fatigue on a muscle group each week is the training volume that you need. Okay? And then, of course, the load can matter. It can be moderate weights. It can be heavier weights. It can be lighter weights. But the goal is to go close to fatigue. They call it one to two reps in reserve, meaning I could only do one or two more reps, and then I would have been completely tapped out. That's what each set needs to go to. So if you're using a lighter weight, do you recognize that you're going to get a whole lot more reps to get to the point where you only have one or two left in the tank? If you're using a heavier weight, it's probably not going to be as many reps. So there's no wrong answer. It's what are you doing today? What do you feel like? Right? But it's driven by training volume and reps in reserve or driving to fatigue. Okay? So as long as your workout fits those parameters and you're getting the volume that you need, again, 20 to 30 sets on a muscle group will drive fatigue per week. If you're not getting 20 to 30 sets, 20 minimum, you're just maybe getting stronger, maybe building some endurance, but you're not going to necessarily build muscle size. But as far as what a client's eating, nutrition absolutely matters. Right? So you guys tell me, hopefully you're yelling at the screen. To build muscle, do you need to be in a calorie deficit or a surplus? More calories or less calories? Hopefully you're yelling at the screen more. Right? So your nutrition does matter. Your overall calorie intake needs to be above your maintenance calories, whatever that is, which means you need to probably estimate that. Figure that out. Or at least get a ballpark. Because you need to be consuming more calories than your maintenance in order to build muscle along with your training. Okay? And then, yes, the focus should probably be on protein, which is an important structural component of every cell in your body, but especially muscle tissue. Carbohydrates help us replenish our energy systems. Right? Fats are important for all of our cells as well. So the balance of your macronutrients, if you're getting that granular, you're looking that detailed, not everybody needs to. But if you are, you can probably look at what you're doing and see where your protein is falling. That's probably the first thing I would look at. And then make small adjustments from there. Okay? So hopefully that helps. But again, Chapter 12 talks all about the four goals, the four adaptations that we can achieve with resistance training. I strongly recommend checking that out. Next question. If the preparation is exactly the same as the online open book exam, wondering if there's additional material I should cover in preparation for the NCCA exam or the accredited exam. And my basic answer is not, I mean, no, not really. I mean, it's still coming from the same text. It's coming from the same information. It's just that your preparation is going to have to be such that you're ready for you versus the test. Because the online open book exam, you have your notes, you have your book. So again, you'll have to prepare in a way where you don't have access to additional information. But yeah, as far as the topics you need to know about, the same. And yeah, the outline for the NCCPT exam can be found at nccpt.com if you're really that interested. Indeed. Yeah, a lot of people like to share that one, John, on our Facebook page. There is a content outline, you guys. And that lays out exactly what you need to know for the test. And it's right there online. You can Google NCCPT content outline and it'll pop up. It's free of charge on the website. All right. Next question here, John. How is AI changing the way personal training can be performed? And can it help us in any way? Well, the cool thing is, guys, we just literally, like an hour ago, recorded a podcast episode on this. And we talk about it almost every week now. Because it is important to understand artificial intelligence and how it could potentially help us. So I'm not going to give you guys too much information on this one. John might have some things to add. But definitely check out the podcast episode. Keep an eye out. It should be out in the next couple weeks. So towards the end of September, early October, okay, on AI. Because it's constantly evolving, right? It's big. It's becoming bigger. And we need to know how to use it if you want to. But at least be familiar with it. But is it changing the way personal training can be performed? So the first thing I'll point out, yes. Our clients or people out there in the world can go on and give a prompt to an AI generator and say, hey, create me a workout at this gym with this equipment this many days a week for this goal. And it'll give them information. Sure. And some of them, I've seen some of them. They're pretty good. But is that going to help somebody actually go do it? Is that going to answer their questions that they have about how do I do this exercise specifically? No. It's not going to eliminate the need for us. Because there's still going to be questions. There's still going to be people that need to be motivated and change their behaviors and look at other elements versus just having a workout plan when they walk into the gym. So I'm not scared that it's going to take our jobs away because it's not. It's just helping people get to information a little bit easier, which I love. I love that. But one thing we talked about with our guest today, Scott, on our podcast, he said, using AI to help you with the things that you don't enjoy necessarily doing. Like, I love programming, but I don't like writing Facebook posts or Instagram posts or writing emails. You can use AI to help you with the things that you don't enjoy as much or maybe don't do as often as you should. And then if you enjoy programming, do your own programming. Don't rely on AI for that. Right? It can help you do things faster. It can save you time, especially as you get to the point where you have lots and lots of clients. That's awesome. But then as you get more clients, the time spent doing all the administrative stuff, right? Engaging with people, responding to people's questions, writing your programming, that time also grows as well. So you can use these tools to help you save time as you get more and more clients as well. So definitely keep an eye out for that episode coming out very soon on AI. John, anything you want to add? Anything that stood out about the AI stuff for you? Yeah. There's a lot more to our job of being a personal trainer than the actual training part, right? There's the business side, the sales, the marketing, the administration of your business. And it sounded like there was going to be a lot of ways or there are a lot of ways in which you can help that process, whether it be the creative part of the marketing process or the tracking part of your business. It sounds like there's a lot of really cool tools in order to help you manage your business. So I'm no expert. We're still kind of learning, but I think it's something to pay attention to for sure. Love it. Next question. How can I get my name more out there to the people in my gym so I can build more clientele? And how can I be targeted as a trustable and reputable trainer? So I'm going to go old school on this. Like how many people at your gym? I mean, I guess you're asking the question, how do I get more people at the gym to know me? Well, go introduce yourself. Be around. Be present. If you want to be known as a trustable and reputable service provider in your gym, then presence is going to be one of the best things you can do for yourself. Now you can be a little bit more strategic about it. And maybe, who knows, like sometimes you work in gyms and sometimes someone is running a body fat testing table or something like that. And that can be a way just for you to meet people. Some people will want to take the body fat test. Some won't. But at least they'll start to see you. You'll maybe have an interaction. Hi, I have a good workout, et cetera. And that's the start of it. You can't expect that your first interaction with everyone is going to be instantly, oh, you know what? That's a trustable and reputable trainer right there. Your first interaction might just be like, hey, how's it going? Have a great workout. And that's it. But over time, that's how trust gets built, right? It doesn't usually happen right away. So I would say be present. Have some strategies. If you work in a gym and there are other people there or a fitness manager there, they may have some strategies in place that they like to use. Or just create some strategies. You can do it fun. Maybe you want some sort of contest. Beat the trainer in pushups. I don't know. I mean, just something to gain interaction with people is, I think, a good way to kind of start that process. And just know that it will be a process in order to build your reputation and your trust because it doesn't happen overnight. Agreed. Yeah. Awareness is the first step, right? For most things. For business. For getting people to know who you are. All of that. They have to know that you're there in the first place. So I love your first point, John. Just be there, right? Sometimes just being there with your outfit on, walking around. You're always that trainer that's picking up weights or cleaning stuff or handing people towels. Hey, would you like a towel? Hey, would you like a towel? You're not asking for anything, right? But they know that you're there. So when they need something, oh, this person gives me a towel every day. Let me go ask them a question, right? Answer their question. Next thing, they might ask you something more. Hey, can we do a training session? Because I want to do more, right? So that's how it starts. I love that, John. All right. We got two more. Next one. How much does this course help someone like a wrestling coach with setting an independent team for non-scholastic combat sports? How much does this course help someone like a wrestling coach with setting an independent team? I'm not sure I understand this question. So I'm wondering if they're asking about training somebody for non-combat sports. What would you say, John? I'm not sure that I understand this question. Well, no, no. It says non-scholastic combat sports. So let's just look at the question this way. How much does this course help someone like a wrestling coach? And I'll just stop it right there. So as a wrestling coach, well, that's a little bit sports specific, right? So I would encourage somebody who is a wrestling coach. The CPT is going to be a great foundation. But you probably want to go into something more specific like strength and conditioning to get more on the strength and conditioning aspect of sport. But generally speaking, though, we can take what we know generally as a fitness professional about human movement, about muscles by body region, right? About the movements that our body can make, about how we move, about the cardiovascular system and training that. Flexibility, strength training, resistance, like all these things. And we can put that together, right? If we understand the fundamental movements or needs of a wrestler, what are the movements that they need to be able to master, right? What are the things that they do in their sport? And then train those things. And then there's a seasonality to it, which, again, you dig deeper into in something like strength and conditioning. Where are they off-season? Are they pre-season, about to start their season? Are they in-season and they're actually wrestling? Are they post-season, right? There's different, depending on where they're at in their season, it will tell you what type of training they may or may not be doing. And it also depends on how long that phase of their training is as to how you program it and what you program. So we can use our basic knowledge to understand the fundamental movements and needs of a wrestler and train those things. But I think there might be more to learn in something like strength and conditioning where it goes deeper into performance. Yeah, I agree. You know, depending on what age, you know, I had coaches growing up that were just a teacher or someone's parent that was nice enough to coach. So a course like this can just help you to just understand some of the basics of how exercise works, right? I mean, unless you're training elite athletes, you know, that gets a little bit different. But if you are going to be a coach and usually the coach is doing a lot of the physical training with their team to keep them in quote-unquote shape, well, if you understand some of the basics, now you'll be able to make good use of that time rather than just randomly doing stuff to get tired, which is, I guess, normally what we did when I was younger. When, again, we were working with coaches that didn't know any better. Yep. Next and last question, based on experience rather than science, I don't know why I would do one, just one instead of the other, but maybe that's me. But based on experience, is there a way to create a base fitness program that is easily adaptable to a variety of clients? Yes. The answer is yes. I mean, if you, you know, I don't know if they still do them on late night videos where you can order like CDs for workouts, but those are oftentimes base fitness programs that are pretty easily adaptable. So, yeah, you totally can. And maybe you have like some philosophies or basic things like, you know, like a daily mobility routine that you think is good for most of your clients. And then sure, there's nothing wrong with that. Like, you'll hear me and Jenny say, don't train all of your people exactly the same way. And there's definitely a reason for that because different people will have different goals. They'll have different workout history, et cetera. But, yeah, you can make base fitness programs to serve a lot of different clients. At the end of the day, most of us, you know, have two arms, two legs, and a lot of us live similar lifestyles. And a lot of people are pretty sedentary, sit down all day. So, I mean, you can make – there are assumptions that you can make. But at some point, especially if you're working with someone one-on-one, then your training is going to have to go a little bit more specific to them. The second part of that question was, do you find it easier to create programs individually instead? And I wouldn't call it easier. I would just say, in some cases, your relationship with a one-on-one client is going to necessitate it. So, I think as a business proposition, it's not uncommon. You'll see this online where people do offer their easily adaptable base program. And then if you'd like to upgrade to my more personalized programs, then you can contact me here. So, I mean, it could be a good tool. Yeah, I agree with that. And I'll end by saying one thing I always tell everybody. If you're going to create something like that, like John said, like if you're in an online thing where you're like, hey, I have this eight-week program geared towards whatever. Whatever the goal is, weight loss, muscle gain, whatever. Yes, you can start with a base program, right? The simple basic lifts, maybe some accessory lifts to go along with it. Some general cardio recommendations, depending on what the goal is. But at some point, if you want everybody to be successful and therefore stick with the program and potentially after that eight weeks, stay with you. Because going out and finding new clients all the time, I'm telling you now, it's exhausting. If you can get people to re-sign up because they enjoyed it so much, they got results from it. That's the key. People like results, right? At some point, say I got 30 people to sign up for my eight-week program. At some point early on in that program, you better schedule some time to touch base with, even if it's just 10 or 15 minutes on a phone call or a Zoom, right? To touch base with every single person that signed up. Introduce yourself. John, thank you so much for signing up for my program. I love that you're with me. Tell me a little bit about yourself. I want to make sure that I can make any small tweaks to the program to fit you. And then get to know that person and find out what exactly this person needs. And again, it doesn't need to be two-hour conversations. It could be, hey, I'm doing 15-minute time slots. Here's an invite for my Calendly, right? That's a really cool platform that you can use to schedule things, right? Put your openings in there. They're 15-minute windows with five-minute breaks in between. And ask everybody that participated, hey, in the next two weeks, I need you to sign up for one of these time slots, right? Leave it on them. Sign up for one of these time slots, and I'll give you a call. And we'll talk through your goals so I can make sure to tweak this program or give you some more information on how to execute this program so that you get results. But now do you see how you just made that personal without having to take up too much of your time? Hopefully, you're going to get people results, right? Now you've introduced yourself and made it a lot more personal because now John and I have met each other, right? And the chances of that person signing up and continuing on with you, which is the goal, right? You don't want just one-time clients who are like, eh, that sucked or, eh, I didn't do it, right? That's going to get you more clients, more money. They're going to talk to their friends about it, right, and share other people with it. And now you're going to start getting all the referrals. Now your group of 30 for your next eight weeks became 45. The next eight weeks, it became 70. Do you see what just happened there? Okay, so I'm not saying this is easy. Like John said, this is not easy, but it's not that complicated, is it? Okay, I love that question. That's a good one to end on, John. Anything else you want to add on that? Say it again? Anything else you want to add on that one? No, you know, the reason I answered it the way that I answered it is because sometimes the basic answer is like, no, everything's got to be personalized. But it depends on the context. What are you trying to do with a base program? And if it's an attention getter for you to kind of get your name out there or to offer something for free, which is, I think it's a good way, a good entry point to maybe meeting new potential clients is offer them something first before you ask them for something. And, you know, I think it can be a good tool for building your business. Love it, love it, love it. Great questions, you guys. This is why we do these office hours after hours, so we can make sure to get to some really great questions like these, you guys. Thank you for sending these in. Keep them coming. We will get this posted ASAP for you guys. And we look forward to seeing you this week in the live sessions. John, any last words for this crew today? No, great questions. Keep them coming. Absolutely. So have a good day, you guys. Happy studying. Happy training. We'll see you soon. Bye, everybody.