 suficultracha, 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 묻 So, John, let's start off with some nutrition questions. So from the nutrition office hours last week, which was on May 2nd, Thursday, there was like seven questions, seven or eight, that we didn't get to. So let's start there, and then we'll dig into some of the CPT questions from May 3rd, which was Friday. So the first question, this person was talking about there's a lot of myths out there about carbohydrates, and they said that one of them is that they provide us with the necessary energy that we need. That's not a myth. That's actually a fact, right? But it also says the greatest, they also said that the greatest source of energy is fats, especially saturated fats. What conclusion can we reach? So I think this person might not quite understand these substrates as far as they relate to energy production, because carbohydrates are a source of energy. All the macronutrients that we eat are, right? Protein, carbs, and fat. Saturated fats, if we're talking about fats, saturated fats are the less healthy fats, right? Those are the ones that are solid at room temperature. Those are the ones that, when consumed in excess, can lead to health problems. So saturated fats should not be entering this chat, right? Exit the chat. But when we're talking about fats as a source of energy, we can get a lot of ATP. We can make a lot of energy from a little bit of fat, right? More than twice the amount of calories per gram from the other macronutrients. And they're just a very energy-dense molecule. When you look at the structure of them, that kind of explains it. But the circumstances when our body uses fats, it has to be right, right? It's a process to break it down. Our body's not going to do it if it needs energy. Right now, it's going to rely on carbohydrates or sugar, because that's an easier source to break down. And in fact, it's a preferred source by not only our body, our muscles, and our brain. So what say you for this? Anything else you would add for this, just to make sure it's perfectly clear about these macronutrients? Yeah, like fat is a source of energy, but it's not in the form that we actually use it, right? Like carbohydrate and its glucose form, that's how we use it. It's kind of like when you pull out fossil fuels out of the ground, you don't just put that in your car and you go, right? It's got to be processed into gasoline so that you can use it. Thank you. That just happened, by the way. You're catching me to go. This must be my PEW. This is my Einstein window. But yeah, so fat is a source of energy. It is a great storage form of energy, but it is not the form of energy that we actually use in order to power ourselves into power movement. Yes, I love that. Well explained. So hopefully that clears that up a little bit. So it's not that it was a myth. It's just we need to understand these substrates and how our body uses them. So hopefully that helps with this question. There's another one here, John. Oh, this is a common. This is, I want to talk about myths. This is kind of a common one that's kind of misconstrued. So this person asked, why did the human body not absorb more than 45 grams of protein per meal? What say you, if somebody walked up to you and asked you that, John, what would you say? Yeah, I get it because this is one of those ones that you hear a lot over time. And then there's only so much protein that you can use at any given time. And that's probably true of anything, right? Like if you ate like a 10,000 calorie meal, you're definitely not using all of that for function, right? That's just a ton of food to take in all at once. And since I've heard this so many different ways and some pros and cons, eating tons of protein in one sitting versus not, and the type of protein versus a different type of protein. I would say it's reasonable to say that it depends. But I don't think you have to be afraid about having a meal that has 30 or 40 grams of protein in it. You can certainly have meals that have more protein in it than that and still be able to use it. And the usability of that protein is going to be highly dependent upon how much you need it. Because if you're good and you're eating a bunch of protein, then you may not get extra use out of it. But if you're training hard, you're breaking yourself down, there's a lot of need for more protein, then that need is going to dictate how much you're actually going to be able to use. Yeah, absolutely. So I think we overthink this part because, yes, too much of anything, your body, to your point, is not going to absorb it all in one sitting, right? Because our body's ability to absorb protein, you guys, is unlimited, right? But in one short amount of time, that's slightly different, right? The amount absorbed out of one meal, it's going to be limited. Because remember, food moves through your digestive system. Keyword, moves. It's not like it just sits there until it's all absorbed and then elevators on to the next spot. It's moving through your system. And amino acids, there's certain spots in your digestive tract where certain nutrients are absorbed. Like, mostly, right? And amino acids are mostly absorbed in your small intestine, specifically your duodenum or your, what am I thinking? Duodenum and jejunum? Are those the two? Yeah, your duodenum and your jejunum, which are the beginning parts of your small intestine. The food doesn't stay there for very long. So if it doesn't stay there for long, your body grabs what it can and then it moves on. So that number varies. But if you ate, to John's point, if you ate 200 grams of protein, A, you're going to have probably a stomach ache. And B, your body's not going to be able to catch it all because it's moving past those areas. And it only gets absorbed there. Does that make sense? So simplify the way we're thinking about it. But also, I don't think it's as impactful as people like to think it is. All right, John. So I'll ask you this question. How would someone explain the timeframe that, like, proper nutrition, good exercise, like, how long it's going to take somebody to transform is the question. This person said they have clients that have had tough times because they don't see results within two weeks. But we know that it takes longer than that for most people to see results, whatever those results are going to be. But how would you explain this to a client? Yeah, you know, unfortunately, our industry has put it in people's minds that these time intervals of four weeks, eight weeks, 12 weeks, 30 days, 60 days, 90 days are like the amount of time you're supposed to do something in order to change yourself. And that's not the case. When we look at the stages of change, we're saying that you're in the maintenance stage after you've been doing something for six months, minimally. And that's just a behavior change. That doesn't necessarily mean that any amazing results have happened yet, although a lot can happen in six months for sure. So helping your client to get out of the mindset of the two-week, four-week, six-week thing may be a good first step, depending on their goal. If they have a goal that's six weeks from now, then I guess it's unavoidable. But then tracking in many different ways, some of the objective ways, like the measurements that you take with your clients is one thing. But then also just having them pay attention to how their favorite clothes fit, those sorts of things are really tangible and something that they will notice if they're paying attention. And that's a really fun thing for your clients to understand, especially if they're a weight loss client, where they start to feel like their clothes are fitting better or their clothes are fitting too loose. I've had clients that unfortunately they lost so much weight and they wore like business suits that they had to get all new suits, which cost them a lot of money, but they were happy to do it. So again, give them, I think, some ways that they can kind of pay attention, have the ways that you are going to pay attention through your measuring, and then help them understand the mindset of looking for the quick fix versus making a long-term behavior change. Absolutely. And I think this is where, John, our job becomes really important. When somebody comes to you with a goal based on what we know about them, their current habits, right, their current activity level, their current nutrition habits, what they're feasibly going to be able to do, we have to help them set realistic timeframes for how long something's going to take. That is part of our job. So if I don't tell you this is going to take five months or this could potentially take you up to a year, assuming that progress is not always linear and up, right, then what am I doing? I'm not setting them up for success. So I think that's a big part of this too, is helping people understand that while what you're trying to achieve, here's what it's going to take, here's how long I estimate it's going to take us. Are you down, like, are you okay with that timeline? You have to be okay with it, but do you understand that this is how long it's going to take and be realistic about it? So I love that question. But that's a big part of what we do, creating realistic timeframes. John, there was another question. Is there a way to purchase a hard copy of the book and other handouts and materials to aid in building our private practice? So I'll go ahead and start with this one. And yeah, the books can be purchased, you guys, at books.issaonline.com. There's a bookstore. You can purchase it. Or you can just view, print, or download the textbook directly from your course. All ISSA courses have the book right there in the course for you too. But as far as other handouts and materials, it really depends. That's our favorite answer. It depends on what are you trying to share? Who are you working with, right? What kind of materials are you looking for? Are you looking for posters, literal handouts, flyers? What are you looking for? But guys, we talk a lot about the nutrition guidelines in the nutrition course. And you can literally go on a search engine, Google, whatever, and type nutrition guidelines in. Insert your country or your state. Country is probably the easiest way to go about it. Most countries have nutrition guidelines, right? So in the US, we have MyPlate. In Canada, they have something different. They have EatWell in the UK, right? All these different places have their nutrition guidelines. They have websites with resources. Free resources. Downloadable resources. Things you can share or send to clients. So check it out. Because there's already stuff that's already built for you. So why try and create your own stuff when it's already there for you? Or you can modify what's there. Okay? So that's a great place to start looking for if you're looking for handouts and things like that. John, the next question. When a client asks you, what should I be eating after a workout to maximize my body using fat as a fuel source? Okay. So this is kind of what we're talking about. I know. Big sigh. Leigh sigh. I spent all weekend, John. This weekend I was traveling. And one of my friends, every time I see them, they ask me questions like this. And I'm like, oh, there's no one answer to this. You're overthinking it. But what would you say for that? If somebody says, I want to maximize my body using fat as a fuel source, what should I be eating? I mean, one of the answers could be nothing. Because when you're starving, then your body's going to have to eventually start dipping into those fat sources. But that's not what I would recommend. Generally speaking, if clients ask me this, I would say there's not a magic thing you're going to eat that's going to make the fat burn. We have to look at the entire picture. There's not these little magical things that happen or these little time frames that have been pushed on us in a lot of fitness magazines. It's just not really the case. Just stay consistent with eating your well-rounded and, you know, if this is a weight loss program, calorie control, maybe macro controlled diet, and just be consistent with it. There's not like, like, if you eat this magical food or magical whatever right after your meal, but the rest of your day doesn't look good in terms of your eating, then it doesn't matter. So what matters most? It's going to be the whole big picture and not what you eat right after your workout. I agree. I agree. And I mean, if you think about it, if you understand the energy systems, right, it starts with understanding it. Our body pulls glucose, right? We talked about it earlier. It's a preferred source of energy. So if you're eating carbohydrates after workout, your body's going to be like, oh, this is easier. And it's going to break down the sugar for energy. So it's not going to utilize fat as a source. So I think you were absolutely dead on, though, when you said don't eat anything, because if there's no glucose available, your body will go to other things. Again, assuming the conditions are right. But is there a magic food that you should be eating to utilize fat as a fuel source? No, it's not. I always tell people, yeah, look at your overall calorie intake. That's more impactful than this at this point for most people. Okay. Now, there's a couple, John, that are kind of out of scope, but I want to read them anyway just to help everybody understand why they're out of scope. The first one was somebody who said that there's a big emphasis on gut health. You're not wrong. A lot of research has showed the link between pretty much everything our body does and our gut health. What are things nutrition coaches should be aware of when working with clients to see if some of their issues come from candida overgrowth and a microbiome imbalance? This is out of scope. Okay. You guys, if you want to become an expert in the gut biome, guess what? I have a couple books that I've read on it. Awesome. So I can speak intelligently about it, but we are not gut specialists. We are not gastroenterologists. We are not physicians. Okay. Okay. To test out somebody's microbiome in their gut, it requires like medical testing. So they need to go see a medical professional, refer them to their physician first. And if there's a specialist they recommend, the physician can refer them. Does that make sense, you guys? But then whatever they learn from the doctor, they can bring it back to us and we can help. But it is out of scope for us to start talking about candida and any other microbiome issues. Does that make sense? Out of scope. Send them to a doctor and they can get help there. And then just report back. Hey, John, is there anything I can support you with that your gastroenterologist told you you should be concerned about? Right? Same thing with this other one. How do you guys talk or how do common supplements like protein powders, branched-chain amino acids, and multivitamins interact with each other? And what are best practices for combining them? Again, out of scope. Out of scope. We talk about this a lot in nutrition, right, John? A pharmacist can tell you how medications or drugs interact with each other. A physician might be able to give you that information. But it is complete because we don't know. Everybody's unique too. So in a lab, they might interact this way, but in your body, they might interact in a different way. And I don't know if you have intolerances or allergies or whatever, right? So that is 100% out of scope for us. If somebody has a question about this, they need to go start with your physician. Maybe go see a pharmacist or a dietician if you have severe questions about it. And then report back, right? Report back. Tell me what they said. Are you in agreement with both of those being out of scope, gut microbiome and then combining supplements? Yeah, in terms of recommendations and that sort of thing. But like you said, you can speak on these things. If your client wants to have a conversation, it's great if you can have a conversation with them or point them in the direction of other resources. But, yeah, there's a point where we've got to draw the line there in terms of us being like we're pharmacists or people in the more medical field. So, again, we can be there. We can be the guide. But at some point, we're not telling people exactly what to do. Yeah, I agree. All right, John, I got one more from nutrition. When it comes to dealing with clients who are interested in following a fad diet that you don't necessarily agree with, is the best approach to be upfront and honest with them or try to further educate ourselves and them on this specific topic and then move forward? What would you say for this one? So the question is, is the best approach to be upfront and honest with them or try to further educate yourself on this specific trend? So definitely further educate yourself on this specific trend because how do you know that you don't necessarily agree with it if you're not educated on it? That would be my question, right? So don't go around disagreeing with something just because you don't know about it, because maybe you need to know about it. Maybe it's something that would actually be great for you and for your clients and that sort of thing. So definitely educate yourself because I will say this. Sometimes things get a name attached to it because it's a highly marketable name, but it doesn't tell you everything that you would need to know about the diet. This was very much true about the paleo diet because it was very marketable. It caught people's eyes, but then some people would be like, what? So I'm supposed to eat like a caveman? I'm a caveman now? That's how people would take it. But when you really looked at it, it was like lean meats, nuts, seeds, vegetables. I mean, that's not bad, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And so again, educate yourself so that you can give an educated answer, but then work with your client on it. Because if your client, this is the whole praise the effort and not the outcome. If your client is willing to try something, then that's a good thing. Now, let's just take a close look at what they're willing to try. Because if the fad diet they want to try is like the cookie diet or something, then it's definitely a different conversation than maybe a paleo diet. But yeah, more education, the better. And definitely educate yourself. And don't go telling people not to do something that you don't even know what it is. Absolutely. And I'd say don't go telling people not to do something just because you don't agree with it, right? It might be the thing that makes their life easier or helps them achieve what they're trying to achieve. It's more about educating them, right? So if somebody, John, to your point, says, oh, I want to do the cookie diet, my question would be like, what does that mean to you? Like, do you know what that is? Because it depends on who you ask, right? Because that's a very marketable diet. I've tried it before, unfortunately, right? But there's brands that have it. So you only eat this brand of cookie while they're trying to sell you a cookie. So of course, you're only going to eat that brand, right? Or is it something else? The baby food diet, whatever it is. Well, what do you know about that? And why, more importantly, why do you feel, client, that that would help you achieve your goals? Find out more. Find out what they understand it to be. And if there's a reason for it or they feel like they want to do it, it is not up to us to talk them out of it. So it's up to us to make sure they know what it is. Help them understand it. Let them make the choice. And if they still say, yes, I want to do it. All right, how can I support you in doing this? And then like you said earlier, John, just monitoring, checking in every now and again. Well, let's make sure that this is actually working for you and it's good for you. So maybe every couple of weeks you check in, right? How's your hydration? How are you feeling? How is your weight changing? Whatever you're trying to change, we got to track it. Because if you're doing something for three, six, eight, 12 months, then we find out at the end of 12 months it didn't work. Like maybe that was a little too long to let that go. Right? But I've done that before with people where I gave them not an ultimatum, but I gave them a, we made a handshake deal where I said, okay, we'll try it this way. This is what you want to do. We'll try it this way. How about we give it three months? If you don't get to this point, we set a reasonable goal. If we don't get to this point in three months, are you open to trying something different? Yeah? Cool. Let's shake on it. And then let them try it. Right? And then go from there. So I love this question. Love it. Excellent questions. All right, John. So that's it for nutrition from last week. What do you got from the CPT? Yeah, that's right, everybody. We're switching over to the leftover questions from CPT. Because there was about a million of them last week. Okay. So first one, this is kind of continuing on with nutrition. You know, there's crossover with these two courses. So the first question was, how do you get your clients to stay focused on their eating habits on the weekends? Jenny, I know you've dealt with this. What do you say? So I tell people about consistency. Right? It's about consistency day in and day out. What we do consistently gives us our outcomes. So for me, I talk to them about, you know, picking, you know, foods that you would eat every day of the week. Right? Waking up at the same time. Staying hydrated. The weekend is not. Don't let. What did they say last week, John? And they said, don't let the weekend be your week end. That's right. Right? As in week, as in your bad spot. It's about understanding their schedule. Right? Everybody, if you work Monday through Friday, chances are your Saturday and Sunday schedule where you're not working look very different schedule wise. Right? So how does that impact? Maybe that's a conversation. How does that impact the way that you eat, the way that you cook, where you go to eat? Right? Let's understand that in the beginning so that we can help somebody make what I like to call better bad choices. Right? I feel like it's just a matter of being prepared and understanding somebody's lifestyle and understanding the choices that they make. That's where I'd start with this. I don't really have a distinct answer for this, John, because it's a conversation. Sure. It's also a mindset sort of thing. So earlier when I was saying the four-week plan, the six-week plan, the 30, 60, 90-day plan, this is kind of the same mindset of being on a program. Like, I'm on the program Monday through Friday, but on the weekends, it's whatever. And that's not really how it should be. Like, you should try to be living a particular lifestyle that supports your goals most of the time. Like, some people will say 80% of the time you want to be on it, 20%, not so much. Now, that other 20%, that doesn't mean it's just donuts and fast food and binge drinking on the weekend because that derails everything. That just means maybe a little something here, a little something there. So don't let the weekends turn into just a two days of binging. It just means it might be a little bit different than when you are normally, quote, unquote, on it or on your plan or whatever you want to call it. So don't let the weekends be something completely different than the rest of your life. You know, hopefully most of your days in your life reflect how you want to be as opposed to just going off the rails on the weekends. All right, next question. I'm curious how you would best handle social media marketing for new trainers to promote themselves for more clients. So, Jenny, I'll start and then I'll want your take on this. But more and more, because Jenny and I have had a chance to ask people about this a bunch of times and people who are really, really good at this, people who have tons of followers. We have another one on the podcast this week, as a matter of fact. And almost always they I mean, they can get into specifics, but almost always they're just be consistent, be consistent and put out valuable content. Now, we can get into the weeds of what valuable content is. But if you're a personal trainer, then technique on exercises, your favorite leg day, you know, just it can be a lot of really basic stuff. Because remember, you don't have to go out there trying to impress all the exercise scientists in the world. You're trying to get the attention of potential clients. So basic information, maybe some of your personality in there, if you're if you're really trying to be in social media. Like because there's a difference between you actually being in the videos and you just posting other stuff. And neither one of them is wrong, I don't think. But people do like to get to know the potential people they're going to work with. But be consistent and then come up with valuable content. So what is what is valuable content? Again, ask yourself, like, what would catch your eye? Like, are you looking for a new way to be a better runner? Are you looking for a new way to build your biceps? Like these are these are basic things that people might be looking for. They won't be looking for it all the time. But again, if you're consistent and you have, you know, people who are who are potentially seeing your posts, it'll catch someone's eye. Someone that will be looking for that. And and and then maybe you've got someone and then patience, because there's a lot of things out there that lead you to believe that as soon as you start posting things, you're going to like triple your business in a week or two. And that's not typically how it happens. Doesn't happen to some people. Sure. But that's not typically how it happens. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. So you make some really great points there, John. And like being consistent, but then putting out valuable information, like provide them with something. And you made a phenomenal point, John. You're not trying to impress the scientists of the world. You're trying to impress the average person who maybe has questions. So keep your information simple and understandable, digestible, if you will. But I also love the idea, you guys. Somebody once told me this, so I want to share it with you guys. Like, for example, on Instagram, how it has your name. And then below it, you can put like a description or information about yourself. Right. And it gives you so many characters or so many lines, whatever. Whatever you put in there. Like mine says dog lover, fitness competitor, you know, personal trainer, nutrition coach, and volleyball player and coach or something. And golf wannabe. Because I suck at golf, but I like it. Right. But then somebody was like, well, all the things that you list there about yourself, make sure that your content reflects that. So if you're a personal trainer who's trying to get clients and you want to be able to explain to somebody quickly who you work with or what you train, put it in your description. Right. Weight loss, nutrition, like put the things that you specialize in. And then all of your content that you post should align with what's in the description of you. That was the big, I was like, oh, mind blown. I was like, I never even thought about that. I need to post more about like golf and my dogs. Like, right. It doesn't all have to be one thing, but if you post five things or if you share five things about yourself, make sure that it aligns so that people know who it is that they're following and what they should expect. So I love that. We can go on about this forever. And again, our podcast is a great place to get some more tips. Because like John said, we've had some great people who are really, really good at this on our podcast and they shared some phenomenal tips. All right. Next question. This is a common one. So I feel like memorizing all the anatomy terms is one of the more difficult things for me to get down. Are there any fun mnemonic devices people use to remember things like anatomical positions of bones and muscle? So if you come to bootcamp at all, then you would know that there's these things we call Jennyisms. So Jenny definitely has some. So Jenny, I'll start with you and then I'll give my take. Oh, there's tons. Yeah, definitely. If you're in the course, go back and watch the bootcamp for week one or session one, where we talk about some of the terms and stuff. We go over some of the common pairings. But one, my favorite one to teach is prone and supine, right? Prone is face down, face down lying. Supine is the opposite, face up. If you take the U out of the word supine, it spells spine. You're laying on your spine. But also if you're in the prone position, it starts with a P, you can do a pushup. If you're in the supine position, starts with an S, you can do a sit up, right? Stuff like that, that could be impactful. So abduction, ABD. If you got abducted by aliens, did they take you away from the earth or did they put you back on it? If you got abducted, they took you away. So if you abduct something, abduction, it's moving it away from your body, right? Whatever resonates for you. I have some goofy ones and they're kind of funny. So hopefully they're memorable. But there's tons of ways to remember these things. Yeah, so I'll give you a different take and that's just putting them to use. When we're talking about anatomy in particular and bones and muscles, there's movement that you can do. And then it's just the practice, right? If I'm moving my arm and I'm definitely moving my shoulder joint, definitely if I'm flexing and extending the elbow, I'm definitely moving the elbow joint. And then what muscles move those joints? What movement is happening? So there's a lot of repetition in it. But the thing is, you get to not just repeat these things in your mind, you actually get to perform movements associated with all this anatomy. And in that way, you add a layer to your learning. You're not just seeing it, reading it, or hearing it. You're actually doing it. And there is plenty of evidence to suggest that learning in all of these different ways, because it's all different neurons firing to learn the same thing will help to promote the learning. This would be reflected, like if you're a super nerd, you can look into, I believe his name is Donald Hebb and Hebbian theory of neuroscience. And he basically states that what fires together, wires together. So if you're moving all those parts and thinking about those parts and thinking about the muscles and thinking about the movements while you're doing the movements, you're getting a lot of things that are firing together in the hopes that it'll wire together. In other words, help you remember it better. Love it. Next up, just want to ask if you have a program design sample for a client who has a knee problem or shoulder problem, just to have an idea for it and will also use for the client. So I'll preface our answers by saying depends on the problem, right? They got a knee problem or shoulder problem where like something's torn or something like that, then they need to go to the doctor. We don't do that. We don't do that. And we don't have MRIs in our face that let us actually see if they have any tears of anything. So I want to preface that, preface our answers by saying that. But we do have people who have knees and shoulders that, you know, kind of sometimes ache or don't move so well. Maybe they don't have great posture. Who knows? And there's certainly things that we can do for people where, again, if the knee or shoulder problem is they just are tight or weak in those areas, then that's right up our wheelhouse, right? Jenny, like when people have issues in their back, their hips, their knees, their shoulders, et cetera. Sometimes it's just a function of them being kind of immobile and weak in those areas. Absolutely. Yeah. People who like have sedentary jobs or lifestyles, like sometimes that can contribute to it. So moving their body, getting stronger will help relieve some of their pain. We can, so John's absolutely right. We can't image people. So I can't tell you, oh, that's a bone spur. I can't tell you what's going on in your joint. If you are concerned that much about something, they absolutely need to go see a specialist and get it imaged. Have them look inside of your body and tell you what is going on. But there is something called corrective exercise that I love. I absolutely, John and I are both certified in corrective exercise. We use it all the time, but it helps you identify movement and posture imbalances that are muscle related, right? I always tell people we deal with the muscles, not the structure or the bones. So if it's muscular, meaning something's too tight, right? You're tight in your shoulder and then it causes, you sleep funny and your shoulder's always like this. Well, that causes back pain and neck pain and hip pain. That can all be related. So if we address the musculature and it makes it go away, well, that just tells us that that was muscle related. So there are some things that we can do if we identify that it's muscle, not structure. But if they're concerned about structure, they need to go see the appropriate specialist for it. That's right. And there was a similar question that just basically asked, is exercise safe for people with knee problems? And what type of exercises should they do and how often? So some of that will depend on what the problem is. But again, assuming that they don't have this big structural issue where they got to go see like an orthopedic surgeon, you know, what exercises should they do and how often? Well, in general, for general knee function, I mean, it flexes and extends, right? So there's flexion and extension that happens in several movements, lunging and squatting, for example. But then I always like the thought of like our knees don't bend in the frontal plane, right? They don't bend sideways, right? They only, right? They shouldn't anyway. They definitely, yeah. If it happens, I'm sorry. But that doesn't mean that they should never experience forces coming from the frontal plane, right? That's why we do sideways movements so that your body can be accustomed to forces coming in multiple different directions so that your body is ready for it. So when I have had my own knee problems, that's how I address it. I made sure that I was doing the movements that my knees can do, but then also make sure that my knees experience forces of different speeds, of different loads, and from different directions. All right. Next question. Knees over toes? Lots of more questions today. I love it. See a lot online both ways with both sides willing to die for their stance. What do the professionals say? What a great question. So I believe what this is saying, Jenny, is your knees going over your toes bad or good? What would you say? So I love this question because, yeah, this used to be a thing where people were like, oh, your knees should never go beyond your toes. In real life, though, do your knees go in front of your toes? If you live a somewhat dynamic life, the answer is yes. So to John's point, like accepting forces like in the frontal plane laterally for your knees, for example, this is a great example of why can't you train where your knees go in front of your toes? Because in real life, they go over your toes. If you never train that way, but then it happens, you're the person who's going to be laying on the floor like, oh, I blew out my knee. Because your knee is not strong to accept forces when your knee is beyond your toes, which happens all the time, right? So do you need to always like, I don't think we need to be so concerned about this is my point. And everybody's mechanics are different too. It depends on how long your bones are, how tall you are, how strong you are, how movable your joints are, how mobile you are, right? There's lots of different things that can impact our range of motion and what that looks like. I'm sick. John and I are both six feet, six foot one. John will tell you whatever. We're pretty tall. So our squat, you better believe if I go super deep, my knees are probably going to be at or in front of my toes. It just, it's the way my body is built versus somebody who's five two. So is there anything wrong with it? No. Is it good to be strong when your knees go over your toes? Yes, because it happens in real life. So why wouldn't you want to be prepared for something that happens in real life? That's my stance on it. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Yes to all that. Um, just know that there's a lot of things that have been said out loud in fitness and group X rooms and from trainers for the last 20 or 30 years that have stuck around, but there is simply just no evidence to suggest that your knees going past your toes in and of itself is bad. Could we come up with some instances where it might be? Sure. Sure. Sure. But in and of itself, there's no evidence to suggest that your knees going past your toes is bad. Sometimes people say, oh, it puts a lot of tension on your knees. Okay. I mean, when you do squats, put a lot of tension on your quads. That's the point, right? Like sometimes, sometimes we want tension in these places so that they get stronger. All right. Next question. Uh, in, in chapter seven, there is a sentence fitness professionals can look for hyper extension or flattening of the lumbar spine during gate assessments. How do we observe this? So I've had to do a lot of gate assessments and, uh, generally speaking, you want to look from the side in order to see these two particular things. Um, first of all, you have to understand what, uh, hyper extension is and what flattening of the lumbar spine is, which is, so there should be a natural curve in the lumbar spine in the first place. So then what you're looking for is the reduction of that spine as they're going through their gate cycle. So this, I mean, this is getting a little, uh, uh, extra for, for this course, but that's something you want to, uh, watch from the side, hopefully on a treadmill. Otherwise you're going to have to walk with them while you're trying to, uh, so, uh, in order to watch, but if you, uh, if you can watch from the side on a treadmill, if you're really trying to be good with your great gate assessment, watch from the side on a treadmill. So, uh, if you can mount your camera even better so that you don't have to, um, be afraid of any movement. Um, and also if you know exactly how high you put that camera on that, on, um, on whatever you mounted it on, then you know that you will be able to take that video the same way from the same height the next time that you assess. And then again, you're doing it from the side and then you're looking for hyper, you're looking for that hyper extension and that flattening of the lumbar spine. It's, it's really, if you know what you're looking for, it's not hard, hard to see, but those would be the, that would be the protocol I would put in place to assess it once and then assess it the next time to see if anything got better. It may be use an app where you can do slow motion, uh, with, uh, with the video, uh, so that you can kind of go frame by frame. Yeah, I agree with everything John just said, you guys, and this is actually segue to something kind of related. It's a great opportunity to make sure that you guys know the equipment that you're using. Cause John mentioned, unless you're going to walk with somebody while they're doing this, which makes it hard to videos like smoothly, um, put them on a treadmill. Right. But did you guys know that in a lot, not all, but a lot of general commercial treadmills, a 0% incline, like when you first start it and it's on 0% grade is actually a slight decline. So that could change the way somebody walks. So a lot of treadmills, I know this, cause when we were at orange theory, the treadmills that we used were, um, uh, life fitness and we had to put them at 1% incline. What read as 1.0 is actually flat. So if you aren't, I'm not to get down into the weeds with stuff, you guys, but if you really want to get good at corrective exercise and, you know, making sure, you know, equipment, just go online and look up the brand. A lot of them have a lot of information on their own websites about their equipment, little things that you should know how to set like the seats and the backs on things, right? Cause a lot of them have to do with your height. If you're between this height and this height, use number four, this height and this height, use number three. And then on all that brand's equipment, you'd use the same number. Did you know that if I'm saying something to you or you're like, those numbers mean something, you might want to do a little research and figure out how to set these pieces of equipment and what it means. Um, cause at some point you're probably gonna have to use that information or explain it to a client. So kind of related, but love that, John. Uh, next one, we can answer a couple of these pretty quickly. So, uh, first one, I would like to know if my anatomy class would count as credit towards the certification. No, uh, we're, uh, we, yeah, we are education, but that, yeah, that's, that's not how this works where we're not accredited for, for, for college credits and college credits are not accredited for, for certification. Uh, but I would say, go ahead and do both. I mean, I think it's great. Um, I would like to know the chances I would have of getting a job after I'm certified as far as I know, pretty good. Right. It depends on the job that you're looking for. If the first one you want to apply for is like CEO of ISSA, then probably not, not good. But I mean, you're just talking about becoming a trainer somewhere. As far as the information me and Jenny get all the time, all the health clubs are looking for more trainers. Um, and then lastly, it says also I'm a full-time college student. Well, most places, uh, work with my schedule. Um, that's gonna, that's gonna be dependent on place to place. It depends. There's a, there's a lot of different places out there. Uh, but I've had college students that I employed as personal trainers and, um, I was, I was definitely able to make it work with them. Would you say anything differently, Jenny? No, I think you got all those. Next one, I think is an easy one too. What is the age range for clients to train? Like zero to a hundred? Well, maybe not zero, but you know what I'm saying? Like all of them, maybe not babies, maybe not babies. Right. But, um, um, babies don't need to be trained. Are you kidding me? Until they're like two years old. I feel like a, they know everything in the world. That's why they look at us. Like we're idiots. And also they move really well. Have you guys ever seen an infant, like a toddler who just learned to walk? Have you ever seen them squat? Like pristine form, but all the way down to the ground, perfect little bend in their knees. Like they're just mechanics are just, they're perfect at it. And then they unlearn how to move well. All these chairs. Right. All right. Last question, uh, for, for today, what are the guidelines for safe and effective exercise prescription for special populations, such as older adults, pregnant women, and individuals with chronic health conditions? John, I feel like this person hasn't gotten very far in the textbook. I was just about to say, just you wait. Uh, this is, this is a part of our course. It is in there that you can take whole courses on, on all of these things. If you really wanted to be a specialist on working with older populations or pregnant women, uh, postpartum women. Um, so there's, there's a lot for us to go over all the guidelines, uh, would be again, trying to do a whole course. Um, so, uh, so hang tight. This does happen in this course, but again, there are other courses, including ones with us where you can take to learn how to work with youth. You learn how to work with, uh, older adults, et cetera. So if that's something that you want to learn a lot more of, um, there will be some as a part of this course, but also you can seek out more education if you wanted to specialize in those areas. Love it. Yeah. Continue your education. If you want to get into any of those specifically, like John said, uh, but yeah, there's a whole section in the course, you guys with general basics on, you have to understand what these conditions are, what these, uh, what these special populations are. What does that mean for them? Right. How is the body impacted? How is exercise impacted? And then when we understand those things, it makes the modifications that we make for them very, very intuitive. Meaning like, oh, well, that makes sense. Duh. Right. But you have to understand the condition and how it impacts our body first, and then we can go from there. So it is in the book. Definitely check out. It is week five that we go into special populations a little bit. So session five in bootcamp. Um, but it's one of the later chapters in the textbook. So definitely check it out. So this was fun, John. Lots of good questions this week. Yeah, we did it. And this, this goes on YouTube, right? It does. Yes. Those will be live on YouTube, hopefully in the next day or so. Uh, we got to start acting like, you know, real YouTubers and podcasters. All right, everyone. Make sure to like, and subscribe, uh, so that you can stay up to date with everything. Like, subscribe below. From ISSA. But hopefully this is helpful. One thing we want to know is, is this truly helpful to you guys? Like me and Jenny are having fun, but you know, we don't, we don't get paid to just have fun all the time. So, uh, if this is truly helpful to you guys, we'd love to hear from you. Yeah. Leave us a comment below. Um, if this is helpful for you, because if it's not, we won't do it. If it is, we'll keep doing it. So thank you for joining us, you guys. Office Hours After Hours. Episode 2 for the week of May 3rd. Have a good one, guys. Have a good one, guys.