Hello. In this video, we're going to talk about Addison's disease. When you think of Addison's disease, just think of it as being opposite to Cushing's disease. However, it's more that Addison's disease is characterized by insufficiency of all the hormones produced by the adrenal cortex. So before going into Addison's disease, it's important to revise the anatomy and the physiology of the endocrine system as well, more so focusing on the adrenal cortex and its hormones. So here we have the brain. Within the brain is an important endocrine area called the hypothalamus. Below the hypothalamus are the pituitary glands made up of the anterior and posterior pituitary glands. In this part, we're only going to focus on the anterior pituitary gland. Here I am depicting circulation which is the blood. And here is one adrenal gland. We have two adrenal glands sitting above two kidneys. The adrenal glands has a cortex, the outer part of the adrenal gland and it has the medela which is the inner part. The adrenal gland produces hormones in response to the brain specifically in response to the hypothalamic pituitary axis. The hypothalamus produces a hormone called corticotropic releasing hormone. Corticotropic releasing hormone stimulates cells within the anterior pituitary gland to secrete adono corticotropic stimulating hormone or act for short. ACT will then enter circulation. ACT will then travel towards the adrenal glands, specifically the adrenal cortex where it will stimulate the adrenal cortex to produce and secrete hormones. The hormones produced by the adrenal cortex are three and they're categorized as mineral corticoids such as eldoststerone, gluccocorticoids such as cortisol and androgens. It's important to note that androgen secretion from the adrenal cortex has minimal role in males. Rather, it has more of an important role in females. Androgen in men are mainly produced by the testes. An increase in cortisol in circulation will have a negative feedback on the hypothalamus. It will tell the hypothalamus to stop producing any more corticotropen releasing hormone, thus decreasing the stimulation of adrenal cortex hormone production. So what do these adrenal cortex hormones actually do? What does the mineral corticids, gluccocorticoids, and androgens do exactly? Well, mineral corticoids, mainly eldoststerone, has a function to increase sodium and water retention in our body and they primarily work on the kidneys and so they retain sodium and water resulting in an increase in blood pressure. Gluccocorticoids such as cortisol does many things. The effects are usually long-term and is often referred to as the stress response. Effects of cortisol include imunosuppression and because it is imunosuppression, it is also an anti-inflammatory. This also means that infection risk increases. Gluccocorticoids has a profound effect on metabolism. It causes weight gain and insulin resistance. Gluccocorticoids causes skin thinning. And in the bone, gluccocorticoids stimulates osteoclastic activity which are the bone eating cells resulting in increase in osteopenia and osteoporosis which is bones with low mineral density increasing the risk of bone fractures. Finally, cortisol itself has an effect on blood pressure which will increase the blood pressure. The androgen secreted by the adrenal glands as mentioned earlier has more of an effect on females. From what we have learned, we can see that the adrenal glands have a big role in maintaining our body's homeostasis. Overp production of the adrenal cortex hormones can cause big problems, but also underproduction of adrenal cortex hormones can have severe consequences. Addison's disease is essentially any cause of primary adrenal cortex insufficiency or in other words a decrease in production of adrenal cortex hormones. So let's look at some examples. Again here we have the brain. We have the main structure to focus on the hypothalamus and the anterior pituitary gland. Here is the circulation. The adrenal glands have receptors on them. Here I'm drawing a receptor on the adrenal cortex. The hypothalamus releases corticotropen releasing hormone which stimulates the anterior pituitary gland to produce adidinocorticotropic hormone or act for short. ACT goes into circulation and stimulates the adrenal cortex. As mentioned earlier, the main cause of primary adrenal insufficiency and therefore the main cause of Addison's disease are antibodies being produced against adrenal cortex cells as well as plus minus 21 hydroxilase enzyme within the adrenal gland. And these antibbody production actually accounts for 70% of cases of Addison's disease. The autotoimmune attack of the adrenal cortex causes damage and therefore reduces the production of the mineral corticoids, gluccocorticoids and androgens. A decreased production of mineral corticoids will cause a reduction of sodium and water retention and so will reduce the blood pressure. A decrease in blood pressure will cause tachicardia as a compensatory mechanism. A reduction in androgens does not really have an effect on males, rather more of an effect on females causing a decrease in libido. A reduction of the gluccocorticoids by the autoimmune attack causes many things. Basically, the opposite effects of what gluccocorticoid steroids would otherwise do. This means that people with Addison's disease will have weight loss, skin pigmentation, and fatigue in general. Further, because there is a decrease in gluccocorticoids, this means the negative feedback is off. Remember, negative feedback only occurs when there is an increase in hormone levels in the blood. With no negative feedback by the gluccocorticoids or cortisol, the hypothalamus will produce more corticotropic releasing hormone and therefore stimulate the anterior pituitary to produce more adreninocorticotropic hormone. The increase in corticotropic releasing hormone will actually stimulate other hormones produced by the pituitary gland including prolactin. So now the question is what are the effects of having reduced adrenal cortex hormone levels? What are the effects on our body? Clinical presentation. As we've learned, Addison's disease is essentially primary adrenal insufficiency. And so the clinical presentation include tiredness, dizziness and nausea, weight loss, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, hyperpigmentation which is generalized, decreased libido which is mainly in female, arthralgia and myalgia. On clinical examination, there will be a lowgrade fever, signs of dehydration and loss of hair. You can also note cexia as well as postural hypotension which is a decrease in blood pressure, the difference between lying down and standing up. Finally, tachicardia is also present to compensate for the low blood pressure. Let's go back to the main diagram again. As mentioned, oto antibodies against the adrenal cortex and the enzyme 21 hydroxilase accounts for 70% of Addison's disease cases. However, there are other causes including infections, adrenal cortex malignancy, secondary malignancy of the adrenal cortex from metastasis elsewhere such as the lungs, adrenal cortex hemorrhage or infaction. the per the patient might be on warrin which predisposes them to this. Addison's disease can be caused by infiltration diseases such as hemocchromattosis and amaloidosis. There are also iatrogenic causes such as removal of the adrenal glands which will obviously cause a reduction in the adrenal cortex hormones. A rare congenital cause is characterized by ambiguous genitalia and this is known as congenital adrenal hyperlasia. Finally, medications that can cause a decrease in cortisol production can cause addisonins. This includes motane and amino glutathiony. Some of these drugs of which are usually used to treat Cushing syndromes. Risk factors for Addison's disease include female gender because most autoimmune diseases actually tend to occur in females. Having an autoimmune disease, adrenal cortex oto antibbody production. Adrenal hemorrhage is another risk factor. Tuberculosis infection. Mining cocoal infection with adrenal hemorrhage. And of course using medications that can induce Addison's disease is a risk factor. Recapping primary adrenal insufficiency is Addison's disease which has multiple many causes. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is caused by hypothalamic or pituitary dysfunction investigations into Addison's disease. So in Addison's disease there is reduced production of mineral corticoids and decreased production of gluccocorticoids. However because of low amounts of gluccocorticoids as we learned negative feedback does not occur and so there is an increase in act production by the anterior pituitary gland. And so investigations to be performed include checking serum act which will show an increase in serum act and also checking for the presence of adrenal oto antibodies. There will be an increase in serum cortisol. Other blood tests include full blood count and performing EU which may show hyponmia, hypercalemia and increase in ura. Finally, imaging such as CT scan is important which may reveal adrenal tumors or adrenal hemorrhage. A thyroid function test is also important as one of the main differentials for Addison's disease is Graves disease. Management of Addison's disease. The most important part is to educate the patient particularly to never miss a dose of medication. And we will learn the reason why the medications for Addison's disease include replacing the hormones which are lost. This means using gluccocorticoid replacements such as hydrocortisone, mineral corticoid replacements such as fludrocortisone and this will replace diminished endogenous mineral corticoid production. Androgen replacement are mainly for females. Finally, for management, monitoring is important because of the complications associated with Addison's disease, but mainly also because of the medication used as well. Too much gluccocorticoids replacement can cause secondary Cushings. It can also cause osteopenia and osteoporosis, increasing the risk of bone fractures. Mineral corticoids and glucocorticoid replacement can also cause secondary hypertension. But most serious complication is adrenal crisis which is where there is a sudden drop in gluccocorticoid levels. This is often caused when patients on long-term gluccocorticoids suddenly stop taking the glucco gluccocorticoid replacement or because they're not taking enough gluccocorticoids. In general, what happens? The patient on long-term gluccocorticoids will increase gluc glucocorticoid levels which will have a negative feedback on the hypothalamus. And so because of this negative feedback, there will be a decrease in act. And remember in patients with Addison's disease, the adrenal cortex does not work properly. They don't produce enough Especially now with the reduced act, the little remaining functional part of the adrenal cortex will not produce anything and just atrophy and become nonfunctioning. And so if all of a sudden glucocorticoid replacement therapy is stopped, there will literally be no adrenal cortex hormones. And this is essentially adrenal crisis. And so patient education is vital. It's important to not miss doses. Encourage them to wear a mobile bracelet. And third point, double the dose of gluccocorticoids during febal illness or during periods where it is necessary.