 n stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained stained connection between one epithelial layer to another epithelial layer. Let us now revise the normal anorectal anatomy first. So, in the anorectal anatomy, the anus, there are muscles that surround it. There is the internal anal sphincter, which is a muscle controlled involuntarily, and the surrounding external anal sphincter, which is under voluntary control. It is important to know these muscles because they play a role in naming the different types of fistulas that are found in the area. The levator ani is another group of muscles that make up the pelvic floor, the diaphragm, and these muscles are important in the rectal tone. An important landmark to know is the pectinate line, also known as the dentate line. This anatomical landmark passes sort of through the anal crypts. Now, cells below the pectinate line are ectoderm in origin. These cells are like our skin, which are highly sensitive, and so pain that occurs here are well localized and sharp. The digestive organs itself, as we know, are covered by visceral peritoneum. Another anatomically important structure are the internal and external hemorrhoid plexi, which are normal venous plexus located in the anal area. Fistulas can occur in the anal area and can cause some serious discomfort. There are many types of fistulas in anal, and this really depends on where they are localized, where they travel to, and where they travel from. They are named actually in relationship to the sphincteric muscles most of the time. So, for example, inter-sphincteric fistula travels from the anal canal in between the internal and external sphincter muscles to an opening. A fistula that travels from the internal opening, which is the anal canal, and travels above the sphincteric muscles and down to an external opening is called a supra-sphincteric fistula, which makes sense. A fistula that travels from the internal opening, which is the anal canal, travels through the internal and the external anal sphincteric muscles to an external anal opening, perianal opening, is called a trans-sphincteric fistula. So, trans as in across. And finally, a fistula that does not involve the sphincterics at all is called an extra-sphincteric fistula. Fistula can cause mild to severe discomfort. The signs and symptoms include perianal abscess that is not healing. This is because perianal abscess are the main cause of fistulas. There can also be pain, pruritus, and intermittent or constant poralent discharge from the perianal opening. On examination, it is important to perform a rectal examination, which involves general inspection and use of a proctoscope or anoscope. Another interesting thing to note is what's known as the Goodsell-Salmon's Law, which, in basic terms, it's a principle or a law that says that if you draw a horizontal line, essentially through the anal opening, an external fistula opening anterior to the line is a straight fistula. And a fistula opening below or posterior, sorry, to the line is a curved fistula. An external fistula opening anterior to the line is a straight fistula. An external fistula opening below or posterior, sorry, to the line is a curved fistula. However, there is another rule in that if the external opening that is anterior to the line is actually three centimeters away from the anal opening, this is also a curved fistula. Not sure how helpful this law is clinically, but thought it was interesting. Essentially, in examination, what wants to be done is that we want to identify the external opening through the general observation and then identify an external opening using a proctoscope. Diagnosis is history and examination, including presence of pain, perillin discharge and perirectal skin lesion. Differential diagnoses include anal ulcers or anal sores, usually associated with Crohn's disease, which is an inflammatory bowel disease. Another differential diagnosis is an anal fissure. And finally, anal abscess. The etiology of anal fistula is mainly anal abscess, as mentioned earlier. Because what happens is, the abscess will spread through areas of least resistance within the perianal area, and so can create a tunnel. Another cause is Crohn's disease. In the case of Crohn's disease, 30% of Crohn's patients is said to experience anal fistula. This is one of the complications of Crohn's disease, and can occur with or without anal abscess. The management of fistula is surgical, and can be divided into surgery for simple or surgery for complex fistula. Let us focus on the simple fistulas first. Simple fistula surgery involves a fistulotomy. In summary, a scope is used to open the anus. A probe is inserted through the fistula. This shows the fistula root. Then a cut is made, along the track. This is followed by stitching it up. And this process aims to create a local inflammatory reaction, which is then followed by a healing reaction. However, in complex fistula, a fistulotomy and setchung is used, which is a similar procedure in that a probe is used and passed through the fistula. Then a suture is also passed through. The suture is tied up, and in regular intervals, it is tightened. This means the person has to come to the doctor to get it tightened up regularly. The aim is that as the suture is tightened, it will slowly cut an opening, but the cut opening will then be followed by a wound healing process. Another procedure that can be done for complex fistula is a fistula plug. Another procedure that can be done for complex fistula is a fistula plug. The fistula itself is firstly cleaned and irrigated. Then a suture or thread is passed through the fistula, with a plug at the end of it. The aim is to pull the plug into the fistula through the internal opening. The plug is then tied down into the anal opening. The external opening of the fistula is actually open, left open, to allow drainage of the fistula. The final procedure I will talk about is the advancement flap procedure. This is where a probe again is passed through the fistula to identify the tract. A larger cut is made in the external opening for the fistula to be cleaned. A large incision is made partly around the internal fistula opening. This cut is shaped like a flap, which is then excised and moved forward over the internal opening. The flap will close the internal fistula opening with absorbable sutures, and this will all heal up.