Hey guys, finally able to make a video for the website. Uh, this video is like an introduction to the website. Um, by the way, the website is still being improved. Um, like we're still working on it. Um, I still have to add other features, so please wait for those and I'll talk about those um, as we go through this video. So, you know, the URL is armandohh.org or and here is the header with some tabs for uh for the pages uh subject shop um donate about and forum and here we have a search icon um and at the center of the page this homepage there is a search bar which I'll talk about and here are my partners and sponsors uh of which is Artline Australia so clicking here will go to their link artline Australia has been an awesome um sponsor for me like help giving providing pens and other art supplies. And if you're interested in sponsoring or becoming a partner, please contact me. I mean I would be extremely grateful and happy. Um down the bottom you have the social media links you know your Twitter, Facebook, uh Instagram and YouTube. So, you know, click on Facebook goes to the Facebook page and it's usually on Facebook where I, you know, talk about my upcoming videos. Okay. So, now let's uh look at what the search bar is for. The search bar is essentially uh if you want to search a video, a particular video, you type a word or letter in and the search bar will find videos with those letters or words. So for example, you type in cell um and videos uh with then the video titles with the word cell in it will come up. Um so for example, you wanted cellular respiration. So you know you click on it and it brings you to a page where you can watch the video. Alternatively, you type in the word cell and you and you want to see all the videos with the word cell in it. So you click on view more results and it brings you to a page with a lot of videos. You click on one, you can watch it and then you can click on the next and watch the next. So that was basically the function of the search bar and the homepage feature. Um let's go onto my my favorite page which is the subjects page where all my videos are organized into categories. Now the videos are organized into either fields of study or body systems. The field of study is kind of where all the videos are from the basics to the more advanced videos. you know you have your immunology, cardiology uh and all these other uh subjects and the and the videos are also categorized into body system in the body system section um where all the basic and introductory videos are. So you know we have the 12 body systems cardiovascular, urinary and skeletal for example um and let's just say we want to know about the cardiovascular system. We click on it, it brings you to a page where you have a short description of this cardiovascular system. And then below it, you have all the the videos, the basic videos on the cardiovascular system. And now, let's just say you want to watch the physiology one. You click on it and a pop-up will come up with the video. You can watch the video and on the right you can see an image icon where if you click on the icon, you can have access to the image. A word of warning, uh the images you have access to are really big because it has high res. Um anyway, now for example, you want to watch Kodiac output. The pop-up comes up and you can watch the video on cardiac output and right and on the right you have the image icon again, but this time it says that you only have access to the lower resolution watermarked version of the image. Um, so it's because the Patreons have access to the high-res images of my latest videos. And this is because it's a way of thanking them for supporting me continuously through Uni while I make these videos. But, you know, you can still click on the image icon and the images are not that bad. It's watermarked, but still you can use it and download it. Okay, so let's go back to the subject page. uh we are back to the fields of study. Remember we were at the body system categorization where we looked at the cardiovascular system. But now let's just say we want to look at the cardiology um look at cardiology which is the same system basically but when we look at cardiology it has way more videos because the field of study contains this field the field of study section contains all the videos from basic to advanced and the field of study divides the videos into different sections. So for example in the cardiology we have the cardiovascular system videos and we have additional medical anatomy and physiology and then we have diseases. So let's just say we want to learn about hemostasis you know popup video and the image then we have arthoscerosis video and image. Um and then we and then let's just say we want to watch the coronary arteries. Um, so here we have the video, but we don't have the image. And this is because not all my videos have image of images available. It's pro most likely cuz I lost it. And that is actually the reason. So sorry about that. Uh, going back to the subjects page, I also have a project section. So you know, you click on it and, you know, these are the videos I've done for some organizations such as CSRO and Gavin. Um if you're interested in contracting um me for some projects, please feel free to contact me. Uh there's also an others icon here but which is empty but I think this is where I'll put some random videos for examples. For example, the one I did on physic physics. Okay. So I hope that made sense about the subjects page. Now then you have the shop page which is still under construction. If you have any suggestions or advice about the shop shop section, please contact me. I am happy to hear people's suggestions. Now, my second favorite page is the donate page. Now, the now these these videos, they are made free no matter what, but helping me with donations through PayPal or becoming a Patreon is very helpful, keeps me at my feet, and it really just helps. I mean it will help me improve the website. It will allow me it will it can it will help me buy new equipment and really and most importantly I think you know I want to be able to have other people involved in the production of the videos. So it will really you know it will really help me. Um I want to give a special mention to all the Patreon supporters. So if you want to you know if you want to become a patron you just click on this Patreon icon. But the Patreon supporters they're really amazing. I meant, you know, always supporting me monthly. Um, supporting me for as little as $1 a month would still make a massive difference, believe it or not. So, if you're interested, you know, check out the Patreon page. Then I have the about page, which is, you know, the my goal and how I started and yeah. Um then the forum page which is still not complete just like the shop page but my idea of the forum page is um when it's done is to allow people to ask questions and answer questions for each video or any topic area. So make sure to fill in your details if you want to know when the form is done. Finally, there is a search icon here which uh you can click on at any time throughout the website and it will make uh you know it will have a pop-up with a search bar from the from like the beginning of this video if you remember. So for example, you are in the subjects page in the gastroenterenterology section and you decide oh I'm going to search for something. You click on the search icon and a popup pop it pops up and you know it's just you type stuff in and it's pretty cool. Um so you know you can search for Nefron. Click you click on this video and you know it brings you to a new page with that video and you can also you know have access to the image from from this particular page as well. Um so that was basically that's basically summarizes the v the website for now. Um so please check it out. Um you know the links here um hopefully you like it. Again, the website is still under construction and it's going to improve with the shop underway, the forum underway, and also, you know, I I I plan on making quizzes for each video and blueprints which you can have access to. And again, your support will help me tremendously. Thanks, guys.