 Hello, in this video, we're going to talk about carbapenems, which are beta-lactam antibiotics, which are beta-lactam antibiotics derived from theanomycin, a compound produced by Streptomyces, Cataleia. Carbapenems include antibiotics such as imipenem, meropenem, and urtapenem, and these guys are the hard hitters and used to target a variety of bacteria. Carbapenems are a type of beta-lactam antibiotics because of beta-lactam antibiotics because of beta-lactam antibiotics because of the beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring in their molecular structure include penicillins, cephalosporins, and monobactams. In contrast to penicillins, which we are all aware of, carbapenems have a carbon instead of a sulfur atom in the first position and an unsaturated bond in the fifth, membered membered a ring. Carbapenem unique side chains in the trans position, unlike in the cis position, like in the other beta-lactams, make them resistant to several beta-lactamases, which are these enzymes that essentially inhibit the beta-lactam antibiotics. The carbapenems are resistant to several beta-lactamases, like extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. So let's talk about the mechanism of action. Broadly speaking, as a compound class, carbapenems show limited permeability of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria. And for this reason, carbapenems are reliant on the presence of an outer membrane protein, porin, to facilitate their entry into the gram-negative bacteria. For example, the OPRD is implicated as a key transport channel for carbapenems facilitating entry into Pseudomonas aeruginosa. As like other beta-lactam antibiotics, carbapenems affect bacterial cell wall and prevent bacterial cell wall synthesis, resulting in bacterial cell lysis. They show bactericidal properties against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. Carbapenems bind to penicillin-binding proteins, or PBPs, and they essentially inactivate them. What happens is they prevent the final transpeptidation step during the bacterial cell wall synthesis, the peptidoglycan synthesis, resulting in no elongation and cross-linking of the peptidoglycan in the bacterial cell wall. And as a result, the bacteria can't develop their cell wall, and ultimately, they die. But, of course, like many antibiotics, resistance can develop. And despite being a very powerful beta-lactam, bacteria itself can still develop all these resistance against the carbapenems. And resistance in general, how they develop in beta-lactam antibiotics, occur through four mechanisms. First of all, the production of a low-affinity penicillin-binding protein target. Second, the reduced outer membrane permeability due to the absence of an outer membrane protein, such as mentioned the OPRD in gram-negative bacteria. The presence of an efflux pump or channel that will allow the drug to be pumped out of the bacteria, specifically gram-negative bacteria. And finally, importantly, the production of beta-lactamases, which are these enzymes that hydrolyze and break down beta-lactam antibiotics, including carbapenems. And in carbapenem's case, if they are broken down and become ineffective, these enzymes that break carbapenems down are called carbapenemases. And so I want to talk more about carbapenem resistance, which is very important. Carbapenems are normally effective against a wide range of bacteria, especially a group of bacteria that produce ESBL, which refers to extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. ESBL producing enterobacteria group, for example, are a big problem because they produce a lot of these enzymes, these beta-lactamases that inhibit the antibiotics prescribed, including penicillins and keflosporins. Carbapenems are like heroes because they are actually effective against ESBL producing bacteria. However, carbapenem resistance do occur, and they occur in enterobacter group. And they are due to a number of combinations of impermeability of the antibiotic by loss of membrane porins, for example, plus efflux pump system, plus the presence of beta-lactamases, such as still the ESBL or the AMP-C enzyme. The ESBL and AMP-C beta-lactamases, both of which are chromosomally encoded beta-lactamase. Resistance to carbapenems are scary, as carbapenems are often seen as the top dog in antibiotics. And thus, appropriate use of antibiotics from the get-go and reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance is very important. So when do carbapenems get used? Carbapenems have the broadest antibacterial spectrum of all the beta-lactam antibiotics. Imipenem is slightly more active against gram-positive bacteria, whereas meropenem and erdapenem are slightly more active against gram-negative species. Meropenem is most active against pseudomonas aeruginosa. Carbapenems may be used to treat a wide variety of severe infections, such as obstetrics and gynecological infections, complicated urinary tract infections, soft tissue and bone infections. Imipenem and meropenem are also used for the treatment of serious infections, such as patients with polymicrobial infections, febrile neutropenia and nosocomial infections, such as those caused by pseudomonas aeruginosa or actinobacter species. As mentioned, carbapenems are also used to treat ESBL-producing gram-negative bacterial infections. Carbapenems are also used for infections caused by the AMP-C beta-lactamase-producing organisms. And this group is called the S-CAM group, which include Enterobacter species, Serratia species, C. furundi, Actinobacter species, P. furgaris, Providentia species, and M. morgani. The S-CAM group is an important one to remember, as this often comes up in exams, and again is related to the production of AMP-C beta-lactamase. Pharmacologically, imipenem, meropenem, and erdipenem have poor oral absorption and are given intravenously. Imipenem and meropenem are pharmacologically similar, with a plasma half-life of one hour, whereas erdipenem has a plasma half-life of four hours, which permits a one-daily dosing. All carbapenems are widely distributed and penetrate inflamed meninges. All carbapenems are renally excreted and require dose modifications and renal failure. Monitoring the renal function is vital because carbapenems should always be dose-adjusted. Very important, when using imipenem, imipenem is actually a substrate for an enzyme called renal dehydropeptidase 1. And so, when using imipenem, it's important to co-administer psilastatin, this DHP1 enzyme inhibitor, to allow imipenem to still function. And this leads to the toxicity and side effects. Beta-lactam allergic reactions are commonest side effects, rash, urticaria, immediate hypersensitivity, and cross-reactivity with penicillins. Imipenem causes nausea if infused too quickly and can cause seizures. Imipenem, as I mentioned, is actually a substrate for an enzyme and is broken down in the kidneys to a toxic metabolite by that enzyme DHP1. And so, psilastatin is used to sustain the body's level of imipenem and to prevent the actual toxic substrate, which is actually damaging to the kidneys. So, in summary, copapenems are a beta-lactam antibiotic that are used for a variety of infections and target both gram-positive, but in particular, gram-negative bacteria. Its unique structure allows it to work against a lot of bacteria, including extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. Thank you for watching.