Hello. In this video, we're going to look at hematuria, which is the presence of red blood cells or blood in urine hematuria. And essentially in this video, we're going to talk look at the causes of hematuria. So, if someone presents with hematuria, what are the differential diagnosis? Before we talk about some of the causes of hematuria, let us recap the urinary um uh urinary system between the male and the female and the anatomy. So here is the male and here's the female. Um so in the male we have the penis, the prostate, the bladder, ura, the kidneys and the adrenal glands. The eurogenital diaphragm here separates the prostate and the penis. So here is the internal urethral sphincta at the neck of the bladder and then you have the external urethal sphinctum along where the eurogenital diaphragm is and then of obviously the end of the penis is the external um urethral miatus where urine comes from or sperm depending on what you're doing. All right, so that was a males. Let's look at the female um now. So here we have the v urethal opening where urine comes from and vaginal opening and for sexual activity. Um and uh here is the um fallopian tube for for the reproductive system and the ovary where where the eggs are. And here I'm cutting a section because on this side um this will this is the uterus and essentially the fallopian tube um comes from the uterus and I'm drawing the uterus here and the reproductive system which is the fallopian tube tube and ovary because um some differential diagnosis of hematuria um you know um affect these structures. All right. So that was the male and female urinary system. Now let's just look at um the causes of hematuria now and let's just use the male system here male urinary system. So if someone presents with hematuria it's important to ask them do they notice the blood when they stop peeing or at the end of the peeing or throughout. So if hematuria occurs initially or at or on terminal voiding ter like at the end of peeing the sight of bleeding or the cause is probably from the neck of the bladder down whereas if the hematuria um happens from start to finish so total hematuria the bleeding mo may most would most likely originate from the bladder or from the kidneys. So I hope that made sense now. Some differential causes different differential diagnosis for hematuria include recent urological intervention such as bladder catheterization, indwelling urethral stent or a prostate biopsy, a recent prostate biopsy. Um and prostate biopsy obviously um another differential for hematuria would be benign prostatic hyperplasia and of course infection of the bladder um could cause hematuria. So this is known as uterritis. Uritis can lead to infection of the kidneys itself and this is referred to as pyonfritis. Trauma to the kidneys um or the ur ura or the bladder or the penis itself can lead to hematuria. Obviously cancer or growths tumors in the kidneys or anywhere along the um uh the urological system can lead to hematuria. Of course the functional units of the kidneys itself which are the nephrons um things can cause um problems in the nephron specifically can lead to hematuria. So a a very common condition is known as glome gl glomeular nephritis or any nephropathy in that for that sake and causes of gl glomeular nephritis include infections toxins such as drugs auto antibodies so autoimmune disease diabetes and hypertension could also lead to um glomeal nephritis which is a differential diagnosis for hematia. Um nephrolithasis um is kidney stones. So uh kidney stones could lead to hematuria. And then you have um obviously kidney stones that actually lodge in the urer itself and this is known as uroliththasis. Uroliththeasis um which are kidney stones in the urer are formed by calcium oxalate most of the time and they lodge in specific sites within the urer mainly um the beginning middle and end. So this and these are the sites of actually sites of contraction of the urer and that's why the kidney stones most often lodge there. So uh the the beginning part is known as the pelv ureric junction. Then the middle part is the pelvic brim. The third part which where the urer enters the urinary bladder is a vicco ureric junction. Another differential diagnosis for hematuria um is a a genetic disorder known as polycystic kidney disease and this disease forms cysts around the kidneys which could result in blood upon urination. Now specifically for the female patient there are some diseases or some common problems um that occur for this differential of hematuria and this includes endometriosis which is the growth of utrine cells elsewhere in the body. Um and also there's a there's pseudo hematuria where it's actually just where the female exper uh where a female person experiences their normal menstrual cycle. So mensis or uh recent intercourse causing bleeding in the uh re reproductive system can lead to uh bleeding possible bleeding on urination because of trauma to the area. Recent vigorous activity can induce hematuria and lastly quagalopathies can also cause hematuria because the person is unable to clot properly thus you can have presence of blood in the urine. So if so that was the some of the causes and differential diagnoses of hematuria. Now what are some investigations that can be performed? If someone presents with hematuria, what investigations would you order? So some investigations include a full blood count. Full blood count is to see if the person is anemic and to check for the presence of white blood cells. The numbers um and high numbers would obviously indicate infection. Then you also have urine dipstick. urine dipstick. You can then use it to have a microscopic examination of the urine and also culture the urine um to see if any uh to see if any signs of infection bacterial growth. Then you can also perform coagulation studies. So to check if the patient has any coagulopathies. You can also perform a urinary bladder cancer marker. And usually people the age of 40 who pre who presents with hematia, you should always rule out um rule out cancer of the bladder because um this is often how cancer of the bladder presents and it's often most often um in people over the age of 40. And then you can also do a PSA and this is to this is prostate specific antigen. So this is to check for any BPH or any possible prostate cancer. And then finally you can also perform a CT or ultrasound and these are imaging studies to see how the kidney looks like. Uh with with these techniques you can see um the presence of cysts such as in polycystic um kidney disease. And these investigations are essentially there to help you rule in diseases and rule out some differential diagnosis. So I hope this video made sense and I hope you enjoyed it. Thank you for watching.