 inf infot. In this video we're going to talk about kephlosporins. In this video we're going to talk about kephlosporins. Giuseppe Brozzi, an Italian man, first demonstrated the antimicrobial activity of culture filtrates of the mold Keflosporium acrimonium in 1945. Keflosporins consist of a beta-lactam ring and a six-member dihydrothiazide ring modified at certain positions to produce different compounds. This Keflosporin is used as an antibiotic and is classed as a beta-lactam. So, Keflosporins are a type of beta-lactam antibiotic because of the beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring in their molecular structure include penicillins, monobactams, and carbapenems. There is a separate video on penicillins if you're interested. Now, Keflosporins are typically classified into generations. Each successive generation acquiring better gram-negative activity, usually at the expense of some gram-positive. Generation 4 and 5 have broad-spectrum activity. Not every country agrees on which agent belongs in which generation. So, first generation primarily is active against gram-positive bacteria, and these antibiotics include kefazolin and kefalexin. Second generation enhances the activity against gram-negative bacteria with varying degrees of activity against gram-positive. These include kefuroxin, kefazolin, and kefotetan. Third generation have markedly increased activity against gram-negative bacteria, as we know, with successive generation. And these really include kefotaxime, keftriaxone, which has poor activity against pseudomonas. But then you have keftazidime in this group, which is very good against pseudomonas aeruginosa. Now, the fourth generation, kefosporin, has broad spectrum of activity against gram-positive cocci and gram-negative bacteria, including pseudomonas species. And these include kefapime and kefpirome. Now, the fifth generation is a bit different, as it doesn't have amazing gram-negative cover, but it's really good against MRSA. And this antibiotic is keftaroline, as well as keftobiprol, which is also useful against pseudomonas and enterococci species. So, how do these different kefosporins work? Well, in summary, they work by inhibiting cell wall synthesis, just like penicillins. They bind to these things called penicillin-binding proteins, or PBPs, and inhibit transpeptidation of peptidoglycans. They essentially cause bacterias to die, so they're bactericidal, and exhibit significant post-antibiotic effect against gram-positive, but not gram-negative bacteria. So, what I mean by that is that even after stopping the antibiotics, there is still an effect of the antibiotic against gram-positive bacteria, but not so much gram-negative bacteria. So, you need to use it more often. Now, unfortunately, like all antibiotics, bacteria can develop resistance to antibiotics through several mechanisms. Firstly, through destruction of antibiotic by beta-lactamases. So, beta-lactamases are enzymes that can break down beta-lactam antibiotics, including kefosporins. They can promote reduced penetration of the antibiotics through the outer membrane of specifically gram-negative bacteria. They can have enhanced efflux, so pumping out the antibiotic, or alterations in the penicillin-binding protein target, resulting in reduced affinity binding, so reduced affinity of the antibiotic to the actual target. So, what are the clinical uses of kefosporins? Well, there are so many generations that each generation is used for really specific type of infections. First generations are typically used for gram-positives, so these include staphylococcal or streptococcal skin infections or soft tissue infections, and even UTIs. Second generation use includes severe community-acquired pneumonia, otitis media, streptococcal pharyngitis. Third generation use includes meningitis, upper respiratory tract infections, as well as pneumonia, sinusitis, otitis media, some nosocomial infections, nesirgonorrhea, typhoid, and also shigella. Fourth generation, as mentioned, is quite strong against gram-negative infections, and so it's useful against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, entericobacter species, citrobacter species, and serratia species, so really the resistant guys. So, in terms of pharmacology, kefosporins can be given either oral, intravenous, or intramuscular. Fourth generation drugs are all parenteral. Oral preparations have 80 to 95% bioavailability, and protein binding is variable, up to between 10 to 98%. Kefosporins typically have poor cerebrospinal fluid penetration, unless there's meningeal inflammation. It crosses the placenta. Most drugs are not metabolized, except kefotaxime, which is metabolized in the liver. Most drugs are excreted by the kidneys, except keftriaxone and kefopirazone, which are excreted by the biliary system. And so you can get biliary derangement from sludge formation when using these antibiotics. Speaking of this, let's talk about the toxicities and side effects. Hypersensitivity is quite common, and up to 3%. Other hypersensitivity reactions include serum sickness, and anaphylaxis is rare. GI symptoms are common, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting. Transient hepatitis occurs in 7%, and biliary sludge, especially with keftriaxone. Hematological complications, people can develop esinophilia, cytopenias, and hemolytic anemia. Renal toxicities include interstitial nephritis. Central nervous system complications, seizures are rare. Also, there can be false positive laboratory testing, with Coombs test being positive. Also, note that with really most antibiotics, but specifically beta-lactam antibiotics, they can cause a drug fever, which might not be detrimental, but may cause someone to change the antibiotics they use. So, in summary, keflosporin is an antibiotic with multiple uses. It is divided based on the generation. So, 1 to 4, with increased activity towards gram-negative, with the expense of gram-positive. And, of course, toxicities really are similar to penicillins, including rash, GI manifestations, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, as well as some hematological complications. Thank you for watching.