Hemostasis is divided into primary hemostasis which involves platelet plug formation and secondary hemostasis which is the coagulation cascade. The classic coagulation cascade is divided into the exttrinsic pathway and the intrinsic pathways both of which lead to what is called the common pathway. The hallmark of both the exttrinsic and intrinsic pathways of coagulation is the sequential activation of a series of clotting factors. Cotting factors are shown as Roman numerals and numerals followed by the alphabet represent an active cotting factor. For example, factor 10 becomes factor 10 A. 10A being the active factor. So let's focus on the extrinsic pathway. Following platelet plug formation, tissue injury causes expression of tissue factor which together with factor 7A will activate many molecules of factor 10 to become factor 10A. The intrinsic pathway is initiated by the exposure of blood to a negatively charged surface which activates factor 12. This in turn activates factor 11, and then 8. Factor activated factor 8 will activate factor 10. The intrinsic and exttrinsic pathways will activate factor 10. Factor 10 A and factor 5 A make up the beginning of the common pathway. Factor 10 A and 5A as the co-actor activates prothroin to become thrombin which is our factor 2 A the active form. Thromben which are the factor 2A molecules then convert fibbrinogen to fibbrin. Fibbrin is factor 1A. Local generation of fibbrin in turn in meshes and reinforces the platelet plug which was formed from the primary hemostasis. Bleeding is successfully stopped. It is important to know that calcium is involved in the clotting cascade in a few steps. So this is the classical view of the cloning cascade based on the exttrinsic and intrinsic pathways. The classical view is very useful in interpreting coagulation tests and identifying bleeding disorders based on the coagulation factors. However, physiologically the coagulation cascade is much more confusing. There is a cell-based model for coagulation which involves three main steps. The first is initiation. It is now believed the generation or exposure of tissue factor from the exttrinsic pathway at the wound site and its interaction with factor 7 7A is the primary physiological event in initiating clotting leading to activation of thromben. This small initial amount of thrombin generated then activates factor 5, 11 and 8 in a feedback manner leading to amplification of thrombin generation. Interestingly and on a side note factor 8 is carried usually by von willilbrand factor because [snorts] it increases the factor's half-life. Factor 2A release is factor 8 from von willilbrand factor. In summary, step two is amplification where the small amount of thrombin generated from the exttrinsic pathway activates factor 5, 8 and 11. This in turn activates the platelets. Activated platelets and the activated factors earlier then leads to the propagation step. Activated factors here form the intrinsic 10A resulting in factor 10A activation. The activated factor 10 binds with factor 5A to form the proth thrombinise complex. Prothroin complex converts rapidly prothroin into thromben directly onto platelets and subsequently forms fibbrin. So in summary that was the cell-based model initiation amplification and propagation and ultimately prothroinase complex which forms a lot of thrombin and subsequently a fibbrin mesh stopping bleeding. To restore vessel patency following hemostasis the clot must be organized and removed. This is called fibbrronolyis. Fibbrin gets broken down to fibbrin degradation products including D-dimer by the enzyme plasmine. Plasmine is derived from its precursor plasmminogen which is activated by plasmminogen activator TPA. Interestingly, thromben activates a molecule called thrombin activatable fibbrronolyis inhibitor. And as the name suggests, this inhibitor basically slows down fibbronolyis. So you want to slow down the breakdown of the fibbrin. Now that we know the classic model of the coagulation cascade which involves the intrinsic pathway and the exttrinsic pathway and [snorts] then we learned about the cellbased model which includes initiation, amplification, priming and propagation. It is important to learn about the control mechanisms and the termination of the clot or coagulation. The coagulation cascade involves interaction of the activated platelets and the clotting factors with its propagation of thromben and fiber information is good to stop bleeding and commence healing. However, you can imagine if the coagulation cascade is continuous without a break a thrombus can form leading to clots in the veins the arteries causing organ damage. The body thus has a few ways to stop and control clotting. This is the anti-thrombotic pathway. The first anti-thrombotic pathway uh to remember is uh protein C and protein S. As clot formation progresses, thrombin which is factor 2 A binds to thrombomodulin, an integral membrane protein on the endothelial cell surface. The thrombenth thrombomodulin complex activates protein C which with together with protein S as a co-actor inhibits factor 5A and factor 8A activity halting coagulation. Another anti-thrombotic pathway is through tissue factor pathway inhibitor or TFPI which circulates in plasma but at very low concentrations. It works in the exttrinsic pathway and inhibits factor 10 activation in two main ways. It directly inhibits factor 10A and it inhibits tissue factor and fat A. The other anti-thrombotic pathway is the C1 eststerase inhibitor. C1 eststerase inhibitors is a protease inhibitor and inhibits factor 11A 12A as well as the complement proteases C1R and C1S. deficiencies of uh C1 uh eststerase inhibitor results in an in something called the hereditary angiodma. The final anti-thrombotic pathway involves anti-thrombin a circulating protease inhibitor. It neutralizes most of the enzymes in the clotting cascade inhibiting formation of thrombin factor 10A and 9A. So those were the anti-thrombotic pathways which help control and terminate the cotton cascade or the coagulation cascade. Then you have fibbrronolyis control mechanisms. We already talked about thromben activatable fibbrronolyis inhibitor which slows fibbrinolyis. Another mechanism to control fibbrronolyis is through plasine activator inhibitor pa I1 which inhibits tpa thus inhibiting plasmine formation. Again another one is also alpha 2 antiplasine which inhibits plasmine activity directly. This means that fibbrin is not broken down and you still have basically the clot being formed. On a side note, tranexamic acid is a medication that is used to stop bleeding by inhibiting TPA and preventing fibonolyis. So you want the clot to still be there. You don't want it to break otherwise you can bleed easily. So thank you for watching. In summary, we talked about the um the classical uh coagulation cascade which includes the intrinsic and exttrinsic pathway. We also learned about the cell-based model which includes initiation, amplification and propagation. Finally, we talked about the control mechanisms of coagulation cascade as well as the control mechanisms of fibbrronolyis.