COPD or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is a common respiratory condition involving the airways and is characterized by airflow limitation. Exacerbations and comorbidities contributes to the overall severity in individual patients. Let's look at the signs and symptoms of COPD. So patients with COPD present usually with three cardinal symptoms and these are dysnia, chronic cough and sputum production. Less common symptoms include wheezing and chest tightness. Risk factors for COPD include smoking in 95% of cases. So it's a big risk factor. There's also air pollution, low birth weight, recurrent lung infections, and cannabis smoking. Low socioeconomic status and alpha 1 antitripen deficiency are also risk factors for COPD. COPD again stands for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and encompasses a variety of diseases. The big three COPD uh chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases are chronic asthma, the blue bloaters which um is the chronic bronchitis and the pink puffers which is emphyma. In this video, we will mainly focus on the blue bloaters and pink puffers. But before looking at these two, let us quickly revise asthma. And I have a video that actually looks into more detail on asthma if you're interested. So asthma, it's a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airway in which many cells and cellular elements play a role. Recurrent episodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness and coughing are only some signs and symptoms of asthma. So now we will talk about the blue bloaters and the pink puffers. Um and here I am drawing a uh diagrammatical I guess representation a stereotypical representation of patients that presents uh with chronic bronchitis as well as emphyma side by side blue bloaters and pink puffers. We will use this to compare the difference between um the two uh chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. beginning by looking first at the blue bo bloaters. So the blue bloaters they these are patients um that look very sinosed blue um bloaters possibly potentially due to the disna severe disna and lack of exercise. So in chronic bronchitis you have inflammatory change leading to mucosillary dysfunction and increased goblet cell secretion and numbers which leads to excessive mucus production. So if we look at a normal alvoli it has oxygen coming in and carbon dioxide going out normal ventilation and profusion. These are alvoli and it has elastic fibers surrounding the alvoli which is important for basically the air recoiling during expiration. So when you exhale it recoils back pushing the air out and we breathe this carbon dioxide out. Now if we look at an alvoli and the bronchioles of a chronic bronchitis patient we can see big differences in the bronchioles and bronchi. We see bronco constriction and mucus hyper secretion. The muc the mucus hypers secretion leads to the productive cough in chronic bronchitis. The airways obstruction from uh bronco constriction and mucus leads to wheezing and we hear wheezing during expiration. Typically when we have airway obstruction this also can mean that we have alvolar hypoxia because oxygen is not getting through to the alvola efficiently. This leads to a VQ mismatch. The VQ mismatch leads to hypoxmia and hypercapnea. Hypercapnneia means respiratory acidosis. A decrease in oxygen in the blood means the body will try to make more red blood cells to compensate. This is known as polyythemeia where we get an increase in hemoglobin. The respiratory acidosis and polyythemeia with the decrease in oxygen contributes and basically means sinosis the blue color. And this is why these patients with chronic bronchitis are known as a blue bloaters. So just recapping chronic obstruction means that during respiration less oxygen comes in and less carbon dioxide goes out which leads to decrease in oxygen in the blood and increase in carbon dioxide in the blood. Because in chronic bronchitis oxygen is not properly getting into the alvoli we get alvolar hypoxia. When this happens, the pulmonary vessels will constrict so that it can shunt the blood flow to healthier alvoli. But when you get pulmonary vasor constriction, you can get an increase in pulmonary vascular pressure. So pulmonary hypertension. When you get pulmonary hypertension, this can cause backflow of blood to the right side of the heart and this can cause right-sided heart failure which causes your core pulmonale leading to the increase in jugular venus pressure if that I hope that makes sense. Now going back to the alvolar hypoxia again remember that you know the pulmonary vasoc constriction of some vessels leads to the pulmonary hypertension. So pulmonary hypertension leads to less blood going to the left side of the heart which means there can be a decrease in left ventricular cardiac output and this means a decrease in circulatory volume. Now a decrease in circulatory val volume results in the activation of the renin angotensin eldoststerone system which causes more fluid retention despite still having fluid piling up in the lungs and of course this is in uh more severe cases. So I hope that all made sense. So that was for the blue bloaters chronic bronchitis and they are they're they are sinosed or they they present with we and also productive cough not productive but very prominent cough. Now let us look at emphyma. emphyma um are known as the pink puffers. Very skinny, muscle wasting but prominent uh thoracic uh cage barrelchested and we will see why. So emphyma is an inflammatory response which leads to elastic fiber breakdown and destruction of the alvolola walls which means loss of alvola integrity and so we lose alvolar recoil as well. This leads to a phenomenon known um as air trapping which is typical of emphyma patients. So if that all did not make sense, we'll look at we'll look at it in a diagram. So let's draw the same diagram as before with the bronchio and the alvoli alvolus here and its pulmonary supply. Now within the alvololis there are macroofagages normally residing in there helping to keep the place clean and sterile and normally again oxygen comes in and carbon dioxide goes out. Now with emphyma due to smoking or inhalation of pollution or other toxic substances the macroofagages can become stimulated and begin secretreting proteasis and cytoines which lead to a number of things. The cytoines released attract neutrfils from circulation um to move into the area. The neutrfils as a consequence begin secretreting a special protease called elastes which specifically targets the elastic tissues. So elast secreted by the neutrfil leads to loss of elastic fibers around the alvolus which would mean loss of elastic recoil which means decrease in ventilation. The proteasis secreted by macrofages and the neutrfils also lead to the destruction of the alvolar wall and capillary beds. The destruction of the capillary beds leads to a decrease in perfusion. And so, as you might realize, we have a big problem with the ventilation and perfusion ratio. The loss of elasticity and destruction of alvola wall leads to air trapping. Air trapping is basically when you still have a lot of gas trapped in the alvolus after you expire, after you exhale. So you have oxygen and carbon dioxide trapped there still after you um exhale. This means you have an increase in n expiratory volume. So because you have an increase in n um expiratory volume this leads to one of the clinical signs of emphyma which is barrel chest. because you are not emptying your lungs, you still have gas trapped and you're using accessory muscles and a lot of effort in breathing. Um all these together lead to the barrel chest. Okay. So the decrease in profusion and the decrease in ventilation which we talked about earlier leads to a matched VQ deficit. As a result as a result of this deficit in the blood you see similar uh things to chronic bronchitis. a decrease in oxygen and an increase in carbon dioxide in the blood. So recapping what we just drew on the diagram, the proteas is released by macroofagages and neutrfils damages the elastic fibers leading to decrease in elastic recoil which means a decrease in ventilation. The proteasis also destroys capillary beds which means a decrease in profusion. Decrease in ventilation and profusion means we have a matched VQ deficit. As a result of this VQ match deficit, we get hypoxmia and hypercapmia. I think that's how you say it. Hypoxmia and hypercapneia in the blood becomes more severe in late stage. The loss of elastic recoil is due to the loss of alvola integrity and the destruction of the alvola walls. And so the person needs to work a lot harder to breathe. um in as a result we get dysnia and also caxia. Now alpha 1 antitripen deficiency is a hereditary condition which means that if you are deficient in antitripin you cannot defend against proteasis and so you have a net um too much proteas and less antiproteas which means you get a net damage to your lungs essentially. So I hope all that makes sense about emphyma. So easema are your pink puffers. Uh chronic bronchitis are your blue bloaters. Now let's proceed to investigations. What what sort of investigations would you perform if someone presents with difficulty breathing sputin production um as well as a cough?