 trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger trigger Besides the skin, other areas exposed to the external environment include the airways, digestive tract, and the urinary and reproductive systems, all of which are lined by epithelial tissue. Notably, the epithelial tissue lining vessels in the lymphatic and cardiovascular systems is termed endothelium, while that forming the serous membranes lining the true cavities is called mesothelium. So, let's talk about some general structural features of epithelial tissue. Despite its diverse locations and functions, all epithelial tissue shares key structural features. First of all, cellularity. Epithelial tissue is highly cellular, with minimal extracellular material between cells. They are highly packed together. Intercellular connections. They are joined cells that form specialized connection, and these specialized connections are called cell junctions, which we'll talk about later. Polarity. Epithelial cells exhibit polarity, with structural and functional differences between the apical, exposed surface, and the basal surface, closest to the underlying tissue. Other structural features include avascularity. Epithelial tissues are avascular, typically. Nutrients enter by diffusion or absorption from underlying tissues or surfaces. Finally, epithelial tissue can rapidly replace damaged and dead cells, crucial for its role in protection and secretion. Epithelial tissue. Epithelial tissue. Epithelial tissue. So, let's talk about some general function of epithelial tissue. But to look at the typical function of epithelial tissue, let's take a look at an example of the respiratory tract. Epithelial tissue serves as the body's first line of defense against physical, chemical, and biological damage. In this case, it could be the bacteria, it could be fumes, or smoke. They act as gatekeepers, controlling permeability and allowing selective transfer of materials across their surfaces. So, for example, ions, chemicals, oxygen, carbon dioxide. All substances entering the body must cross an epithelial layer. Many epithelial cells secrete mucus and other chemicals. For instance, in the small intestines, epithelium release digestive enzymes, while the respiratory tract epithelium here secrete mucus to trap microorganisms and particles. Some epithelial tissue also have specialized brushes called cilia, such as in the respiratory tract, that help move particles in one direction. And this can help clear the respiratory tract, for example. As mentioned, one of the key features of epithelial tissue is cell junction and cell binding, essentially. Now, epithelial cells, which make up epithelial tissue, are held together by three basic types of cell-to-cell junctions. Tight junctions, gap junctions, and anchoring junctions. Tight junctions restrict fluid movement between cells due to integral proteins forming a firm seal. These junctions are common in the urinary bladder, preventing urine leakage, for example. Then you have anchoring junctions. Anchoring junctions provide strong yet flexible connections between the cells. They include desmosomes, hemidesmosomes, and adherents. Desmosomes link neighboring cells via cadherin molecules embedded in protein plates, while hemidesmosomes attach cells to the extracellular matrix using integrins. Adherent junctions involving either cadherins or integrins are characterized by the presence of actin and influence the shape and folding of epithelial tissue. Finally, the other type of cell junction is gap junctions. Now, gap junctions create intercellular passageways allowing a small molecule and ions to move between the cells, facilitating electrical and metabolic coupling. So how do we classify epithelial tissue? Well, to put it briefly, epithelial tissue can be grouped into two major types. You have the surface epithelia that line internal surfaces and cover external surfaces of the body, and then you have glandular epithelia that form all glands in the body. Epithelial tissue are classified by cell shape and the number of cell layers. So the cell shapes include squamous, which are essentially flattened, cuboidal, box, or columnar, taller than wider. And then the type of layer. So, for example, you can have simple epithelium or single layer. And these examples include simple squamous epithelium, simple cuboidal epithelium, and simple columna epithelium. Then you can also have stratified epithelium, which is multiple layers. So, for example, you can have stratified squamous epithelium, stratified cuboidal epithelium, and stratified columna epithelium. To make this a bit more complicated, you have these two other special cells, such as pseudostratified epithelium, which appears multilayered, but is actually single. And then you have transitional epithelium, which is basically a stretchy type of epithelium. And you can have various shape and layers based on how stretchy this tissue is. So let's look at each of these in a bit more detail. Simple squamous epithelium are thin, scale-like cells with flat, horizontal, and elliptical nuclei. Their function is that they allow rapid passage of chemical compounds. Their location are lining of capillaries, because that allows exchange, small air sacs in the lungs, and mesothelium, including the pleura and the peritoneal cavity. Then you have the simple cuboidal epithelium, which look like box-like cells with round nuclei located near the cell center. Their function involves secretion and absorption through active transport, typically. And their location, a good example, is the lining of the kidney tubules, so the nephrons, as well as the ducts of glands. The simple columnar epithelium are tall, column-like cells with elongated nuclei at the basal end. Their function typically is for active absorption and secretion via active transport. Location majority are within the digestive tract, but also found in parts of the female reproductive tract. You have special types of columnar epithelium, including the ciliated simple columnar epithelium found in fallopian tubes, and this will aid in egg passage. And then you have also simple columnar epithelium with cilia, the ciliated body, in the respiratory system, which helps move particles. Then you have pseudostratified columnar epithelium, which appear as a single layer of irregular shaped and different sized columnar cells, giving a stratified appearance with nuclei at different levels. Their function is that they line respiratory tract typically. Some cells have cilia, allowing movement of particles, and also some are able to secrete mucus. An important feature of pseudostratified columnar epithelium is that all cells contact the basal lamina, so the bottom, but not all reach the apical surface. So let's talk about the stratified layers. The stratified epithelium consists of multiple stacked layers of cells and serve to protect against physical and chemical damage. The classification is based on the shape of the apical layer of the cell, which is the layer closest to the free space. So, types of stratified epithelium include stratified squamous epithelium, the most common type, with squamous cells at the apical surface and either columnar or cuboidal cells at the basal layer. This type may be keratinized, which are found typically in the skin, and non-keratinized, which are found in the lining of the oral cavity, for example. The other type of stratified epithelium is stratified cuboidal epithelium, which are generally two layers of cuboid cells found in the ducts and in the sweat glands. Stratified columna epithelium, these types are relatively rare in the human body, and they're small amounts found in the male urethra. Transitional epithelium are characterized by gradual changes in cell shape and layering. It is found only in the urinary system, the ureters and urinary bladder, and these epithelium transitions from cuboidal to squamous as the bladder fills and stretches. And remember the other type of epithelia are the glandular epithelia. Now, glands are structures composed of one or more cells, modified to synthesize and secrete chemical substances. Most glands consist of epithelial cells and are classified as either endocrine or exocrine. So, endocrine glands are essentially ductless glands, duct-less glands, that release hormones directly into the surrounding tissue and bloodstream. Examples include the beta cells of the pancreas releasing insulin. Exocrine glands are glands that release their contents through ducts that lead to the external environment. Examples of exocrine secretion include mucus, sweat, saliva, and breast milk. So, in summary, epithelial tissue are important as they line the surfaces and cavities of organs and structures throughout the body. This tissue are made up of epithelial cells, which are tightly packed together, creating a continuous layer that serves as a protective barrier against physical damage, pathogens, and dehydration. Epithelial cells are also involved in absorption, secretion, and sensation. They can vary in shapes, such as squamous, which are flat, cuboidal, which are cube-shaped, and columna, which are tall and cylindrical. And they can be classified based on their arrangement in layers. Simple, which is a single layer, or stratified, which is multiple layer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.