 Helminth, which we'll focus on, and the ectoparasites. Helminth comes from the greek word helminth, which means intestinal worm. So let's talk about each one of these three types of helminths in more detail, beginning with flukes. So flukes, also known as trematodes, are leaf-shaped flat worms. They're flat. Majority are hermaphrodites, meaning they have both male testes and female uterus, reproductive organs in the same person. The schistosomes are the only trematodes which have different sexes, so they individually have male and female reproductive organs. Trematodes have two suckers, mouth openings, one oral and one ventral, which help them to move and anchor to host tissue. The mouth openings form their digestive tract, which funnily enough ends sort of blindly. Trematodes therefore have an incomplete digestive tract. They usually regurgitate things back out. Trematodes' bodies are covered with tegumet, which is usually armed with scale-like spines. The tegumet allows for the absorption of nutrients and excretion of wastes. The two suckers allow the adult worm to attach and move around in the definitive host, such as the human, for example. And they could attach to things such as the lungs, liver and the stomach. Sources of transmission of human infection include fish, crustaceans and aquatic plants. There are many types of trematodes or flukes. Different species of flukes tend to infect different parts of the human body. And this is a good way to classify the trematodes or the flukes. You have blood flukes, which are the schistosomas, the liver flukes, which are the clonorkis, lung flukes, paragonimus, and intestinal flukes, fasciolopsis buschi. Now the next type of helminths are the tapeworms, also known as the cestoids. Tapeworms are another type of flatworm. They're flat. Adult tapeworms are elongated, segmented flatworms. There are also hermaphrodites. The head has one or more hooked suckers for firm attachment to the host. Behind the head is the neck, which is the growing region. The body consists of segments called proglottid, each containing reproductive organs. And because they're hermaphrodites, they contain both male and female reproductive organs. The neck is an unsegmented region with high regenerative capacity. If treatment does not eliminate the neck, the entire worm can actually regenerate and grow. Tapeworms have no digestive system, no mouth, no anus. Tapeworms have no digestive system. The digested food of the host is absorbed through the body wall of the tapeworms. The life cycle of tapeworms is complicated and actually involves one, two, or three intermediate hosts. Important tapeworms that infect humans can be grouped into those that infect the intestines and those that infect other tissues, other organs. Tapeworms which typically infect the gastrointestinal tract genre include diphylobothrium, hymenolipus, tenea. Tapeworms genres that infect other tissues include eshinococcus. Now the third and last type of helminth are the roundworms called nematodes. Roundworms are cylindrical worms. They have a complete digestive tract. They are not flat. They are cylindrical and round. And so they contain a body cavity. They inhabit intestinal and extra-intestinal sites within our bodies. Roundworms can either gain entry to the host by egg ingestion, such as trichuris, enterobius, and escaris. And then there are those that are capable of producing lava that then penetrate the skin of their host, such as strunguloides, or produce lava that then penetrate the mucosa, such as with escaris. Roundworms can actually be classified easily based on their life cycles. So you have group one. Group one roundworms are those that attach and grow in the intestine soon after being ingested. And these include trichuris and enterobius. Group two are the roundworms that first penetrate the venous system, either via the skin or via the intestine. They then enter the lungs and then migrate up the bronchi to the trachea, where they will be swallowed again into the intestines. And this group include Ascaris, Stranguloides, and the hookworms, and Psyllostoma duodenale, and Necato americanus. So those are three groups of helminths, broadly speaking. But within each of these groups, there are those that are also referred to as soil-transmitted helminths. Now, soil-transmitted helminths are a group of parasitic worms that infect humans through contaminated soil. And these worms are commonly found in areas with poor sanitization and hygiene practices, especially in tropical and subtropical regions. The most common types of soil-transmitted helminths include Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworms, the Ancyclostoma duodenale and Necato americanus, and the whipworm, Trichuris trichura. Now, moving on to diagnoses. The diagnosis of helminths is generally made by examining the stool or tissues of specific organs, looking for eggs, larvae, or the adult worm forms. And this is usually identified through a microscope. Treatment of helminths infection is with antiparasitic medication. So, in summary, helminths are large, multicellular organisms that are generally visible to the naked eye in their adult stage. Like protozoa, helminths can either be free-living or parasitic in nature, meaning they could live in the environment or they can infect humans. Helminths are classified into three types. Flukes, the trematodes. Tapeworms, the sestoids. And roundworms, the nematodes. If we draw a table here, we can briefly summarize each of their characteristics. So, first and foremost are the trematodes. Their shape is unsegmented. They have no body cavity because they're flat. They have an incomplete digestive tract. And they're hermaphrodites, except for schistosoma. The sestoids, also known as the tapeworms. These guys have a segmented plane without a body cavity because they're flat. And they do not have a digestive system. And they're also hermaphrodites. The final ones are the roundworms or the nematodes. These guys are cylindrical. They do contain a body cavity. And they have a complete digestive tract. And they're either male or female. Thank you for watching.