Hello. In this video, we're going to talk about hematopoasis. Hematopoasis as the name suggests. Hemata refers to uh the blood and poasis is essentially I guess formation of and hematopoasis it refers to the commitment and differentiation process of a stem cell to the different types of cells we found in the blood for example our red blood cells. Now he metapoasis which is the making of these different cells they occur mainly in the bone marrow and this is particularly in adults. This is referred to as medullery hematopoasis but hematopoasis can also occur in other tissues such as the liver, thymus and spleen. And this is called extra medadelery hematopoasis. And we'll learn about that in this video. So let's begin by zooming into the bone marrow. And in the bone marrow we can find hematopoitic stem cells. Hematopoitic stem cells can first of all differentiate into either what's called a common lymphoid progenitor cell or a common myoid progentor cell. The common lymphoid progenitor cell then further differentiates into different lymphoblasts with different genetic profiles and this will allow them to form and mature into different types of lymphosytes. So here I'm just drawing the bloodstream because as cells exit the bone marrow they will enter the blood. So these different lymphablasts they with the different genetic profiles will uh will become either naive B cells, pre-T cells or natural killer cells. Now also common lymphoid progenital cells can differentiate into certain types of dendritic cells. The dendritic cells when it's formed will move into tissues and come and becomes what's known as a lympoid dendritic cells. Dendritic cells are peripheral antigen presenting cells that are actually very important in the connection between the innate immune system and the adaptive immune system. So that was the lymphoid progentor cell lineage. Now let's look at the common myoid progentor cell lineage. And it's important to know that the outcome of these of these lineage are cells that can circulate in the blood. So hence hematopoetic. So again from the from the hematopoetic stem cell it can become a common myoid progentor cell and there are different maps of hematopoasis that depicts common myoid progen progentor cell differentiation but how I'm going to show you is what I think is the easiest. Anyway, the common myoid progenitor cell can become myoblasts and eventually become granulosytes. These granular sites are cells containing granules. And they can either be band neutrfils, band basopils and band einophils. So neutrfils, basopils, einophils. And these granulosytes are band cells because they are immature. But once they enter the circulation, they mature and become what we know as neutrfils, basopils and einaphils respectively. Neutrfils are important in the acute response to infection and inflammation. Basopils are important in allergy and parasitic infections and einaphils are also important in allergies and sensitivity. The common myoid progenitor cells can differentiate and become pro-monocytes and mast cell precursors. The pro- monocytes then mature and become what we know as monocytes. Monocytes are essentially circulating macroofagages. And so once they move into a tissue such as the skin, they become tissue macroofagages. And macroofagages are antigen presenting cells which again are important in the connection between the innate immune system and the adaptive immune system. The monocytes or proonocytes can also become dendritic cells and if they become dendritic cells in the tissue they are referred to as the myoid dendritic cells. So again we have two important antigen presenting cells the macroofage and the dendritic cell. The mass cell precursor um can become mature mass cells once they enter circulation and move into tissues. Mass cells are very important cells in allergy the inflammatory response and hyper sensitivity. Finally, the common myoid progenitor cell can differentiate and become meggaariotes with stimulation of thrombopatin, a hormone produced by the liver and the kidneys or the myoid progentor cell can become ariththroblasts through stimulation of ariththropoatin a hormone released by the kidneys. Let's look at megaarioes first. Megaarioes are normally present in the bone marrow not in the circulating blood but these guys give rise to the platelets we find in the blood. Megaariotes rupture releasing place platelets into circulation and platelets are very important in clotting. still nucleiated red blood cells, meaning that they have a nucleus. But once these ariththroblasts enter circulation and mature, they become ariththraittes, which are a nucleiated.thosytes are our red blood cells. In adults, healthy adults, hematopoasis occurs in the bone marrow, particularly in the pelvis, the vertebrae and sternum. However, hematopoasis can occur in other organs and this is called extra medelery hematopoasis. And let us look at a graph with x being the timeline. Here is birth and down the x-axis to 70 years old. And on the Y-axis is hematopoasis where the blood cells the different blood cells are made. So before birth so when you are a fetus in the uterus hematopoasis occurs predominantly in the liver and the spleen. And this is the fetus we're talking about. So in the fetus hematopoasis occurs in the liver and spleen but then it drops off by birth. And this is because slowly the bone marrow will take over um the role and by adulthood the bone marrow has the main role in hematopoasis particularly the vertebrae bone marrow and the pelvis and sternum. Hematopoasis occurring in the bone marrow is termed hematopoasis. It's interesting to note that hematopois also occurs in the lymph node during adulthood but at a much lower concentration and usually occur uh more often uh during periods of infections. So what is very interesting is that the liver and spleen as one might suspect has no to minimal role in hematopoasis after birth. However, they actually do have a role particularly during periods of infections or during pathological changes such as in certain diseases. When other organs perform hematopoasis besides the bone marrow such as if it happens in the lymph node, spleen or liver, this is called extra medullery When you think about it, a child with an infection, their liver or spleen can sometimes enlarge. And this is because the spleen or the liver is working harder to make more blood cells. But these are but this is usually self-limiting and goes away. Now the milo proliferative disorders comprise several several clonal hematological diseases that are thought to arise from a transformation in the hematopoitic stem cell. The main clinical feature of these diseases is the overp production of mature functional blood cells and a long clinical course. There are many types of milo proliferative disorders. The main classic myo proliferative disorders are three. These three are polyythemeia rubravera, essential thrombocythemeia and primary myo fibrosis. Let's look brief briefly at what happens um at in in each of these three. If there's a mutation or abnormality somewhere along the pathway from the myoid progenitor cell to ithropoasis. So the formation of red blood cells. This can lead to overp production of ariththraittes. This leads to the condition polyythemeia rupvera which is characterized by increased number of circulatory red blood cells circulatory arythraittes. Similarly, if there is a mutation along the mega meggaarioite lineage, this can lead to proliferation of meggaariotes and therefore overp production of thrombocytes, the platelets and this will lead to a condition called essential thrombocythemia. Essential thrombocythemia is characterized by a lot of circulatory platelets. Finally, mutations occurring down certain parts other myoid progenital cell pathways can lead to myo fibrosis and milo fibrosis as the name suggests is fibrosis due to the myoid cells. Primary myo fibrosis is characterized actually by meggaarioite hyperplasia and fibrosis due to the increase in fibroblasts in the bone marrow which because you have a lot of fibroblast they will uh deposit heaps of collagen and this in turn will lead to bone marrow failure. So the failure of the bone marrow to make more cells. So I've talked about mutations along the myoid progentor cell pathway and how it leads to these three conditions that um make up the myo proliferative disorders. Well there are actually mutations that are shared amongst the myo proliferative disorders and this mutation is the jack 2 signaling pathway mutation. So because 90% of pri polyythemia rubber vera have a jack 2 mutation and more than 50% of essential thrombocythemia and primary myo fibrosis also have a mutation in the jack 2 gene. The jack 2 gene actually is a gene that provides instructions for making a protein that promotes the growth and division of cells.