

=== FILE: Anatomy of the Hip Joint ｜ Capsule, Muscles & Clinical Relevance Explained [KwDmD42oyWo].txt ===

 The hip joint is a strong and stable ball and socket type of synovial joint, which forms the connection between the lower limb and the pelvic girdle. The head of the femur is the ball and the acetabulum is the socket. Except for the depression or the fovea for the ligament of the femoral head, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is circumduction. Let's talk about the joint capsule of the hip. The hip joints are enclosed within a strong joint capsule. The capsule is formed by the external fibrous layer known as the fibrous capsule which also forms part of the ligaments of the hip and then the internal synovial membrane which is a membrane that contains a synovial fluid. Let's focus on the fibrous capsule. Now proximally the fibrous layer attaches to the acetabulum. Distantly the fibrous layer attaches to the femoral neck, only anteriorly at the intertrochanteric line and the root of the greater trochanter and then posteriorly the fibrous layer crosses the femoral neck proximal to the intertrochanteric crest but does not actually attach to it. The thick parts of the fibrous layer help form the ligaments of the hip joint. So the ligaments of the hip joint briefly just acts to increase the stability of the hip joint. They can be divided into two groups intracapsular ligaments and extracapsular ligaments. The intracapsular ligaments, well there's only one and this is the ligament of the head of the femur which runs from the acetabular fossa to the fovea of the femur. It actually encloses a branch of the obturator artery known as the foveal artery, a minor source of arterial supply to the hip joint and this is mainly during pediatric age. The extracapsular ligaments are more important in adulthood and the names of the extracapsular ligaments are based on where the ligament attaches to the pelvis and the pelvis is made up of the ligaments. Briefly, ilium, ischium and pubis. So first you have the iliofemoral ligament which is the strongest of the three ligaments and then you have the pubofemoral ligament and the ischiofemoral ligament. Again, the extracapsular ligament passes in a spiral fashion from the pelvis to the femur and this causes them to become tighter. Flexion of the hip joint increasingly unwinds the spiraling ligaments and fibers and this allows for more mobility of the hip joint in flexion. Let's look at some clinical anatomy. Firstly, the dislocation of the hip joint. Now, dislocation of the hip joint can occur as a congenital dislocation and here the hip joint is one of the most common joints affected. It occurs due to two main reasons. Firstly, the joint capsule is loose at birth or you can have hypoplasia of the acetabulum and femoral head. Here you can see images of testing in a baby for hip dislocation. Then you have acquired hip dislocation and in acquired dislocation it is uncommon because as mentioned the hip joint is usually very stable. A posterior dislocation of the hip joint is most common and can occur in car accidents. This is because when driving your hip is flexed so the ligaments are relaxed remember and the joint is unstable. Head-on collision forces the femur out of the acetabulum causing a shortened and internally rotated limb. Let's talk about the blood supply. The blood supply to the hip joint is from the medial and lateral femoral circumflex arteries which form the extracapsular ring and give rise to the cervical arteries. I'll have a video that talks more about neck of femur fractures which goes into this in detail. Another direct source of blood supply to the femur is from the foveal artery which only occurs in the pediatric population because eventually this is replaced by the ligamentum teris. The ligamentum teris is the ligament connecting the head of the femur to the acetabulum. Another blood supply is from the cruciate anastomosis which is between the inferior gluteal artery and the medial circumflex femoral artery. Some clinical anatomy, avascular necrosis of the femoral head or osteonecrosis of the femoral head is characterized as bone cell death that occurs following an impairment of blood flow to the bone from a traumatic or a non-traumatic origin. As we have learnt, the blood supplying the femoral head rely on small arteries with limited collateral blood supply. And so the femoral head is a very easy spot where you can have lack of blood supply causing necrosis. Another clinical anatomy to know is what's known as Perthes disease. Perthes disease is an idiopathic avascular necrosis of the capital femoral epiphysis. And this is usually affecting children again between ages 4 and 12 years old. It more commonly affects male and also children exposed to maternal smoking during pregnancy. Clinically, when you have Perthes disease, this causes destruction and flattening of the head of the femur with an increased joint space on x-ray as you can see. The hip joint is innervated primarily by the sciatic, femoral and obturator nerves. These same nerves innervate the knee as well which explains why pain can be referred to the knee from the hip joint and vice versa. Now let's talk about the muscles that act on the hip joint. We already learned about the motions of the hip joint. Now let's talk about the muscles. So the main flexors of the hip joint are the iliopsoas muscles which include the psoas major and iliacus as well as the rectus femoris muscle. To a lesser extent you have other flexors include sartorius and pectineus. The primary extensors of the hip joint is the gluteus maximus muscle assisted by the hamstring muscles biceps femoris, semitendinosus and semimembranosus as well as the adductor magnus muscle. The primary abductors of the hip joint are the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus muscles. The major adductors of the hip joint are the adductors longus, adductors brevis and magnus as well as the gracilis muscle. Internal rotators of the hip joint include the anterior fibers of the gluteus medius and minimus. External rotators is produced by the gluteus maximus together with a group of six small muscles muscles which include the piriformis, obturator internus, superior and inferior gemeli and quadratus femoris and obturator externus. Now that we've learned about the muscles and what they do at the hip joint we can now understand some of the examination techniques for the hip joint beginning with the Trendelenburg test. The Trendelenburg sign is a physical examination finding seen when assessing for someone with a dysfunctional hip. Patients are asked to stand on one leg and the position of the pelvis is noted. So if the pelvis drops, so for example on the left hand side here the pelvis is dropped. The patient may sway to the loaded leg and the test is positive. Now a positive Trendelenburg sign will indicate weakness in the hip abeductus muscles of which is the gluteus medius and minimus on the side that the leg is standing on. Another test is known as Thompson's test. This test helps unmask a fixed flexion deformity of the hip and measure the true range of hip flexion. With the patient supine fully flex one hip, the lower back is flat. If the contralateral hip lifts off the table, there is a likely fixed flexion deformity of that leg and it could be due to tightness for example of the iliopsoas muscle or the rectus femoris muscle which are the muscles involved in hip flexion. So in summary, the hip joint is a strong and stable ball and socket type of synovial joint, which forms a connection between the lower limb and the pelvic girdle. The hip joint is a multi-axial joint, meaning it has a wide range of movement, flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, external and internal rotation. The hip joints are enclosed within a strong joint capsule which is formed by the external fibrous layer and the internal synovial membrane. is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is

=== FILE: Bactrim (Trimethoprim–Sulfamethoxazole) Explained： Uses, Side Effects, Mechanism of Action [VSqShZXvcsM].txt ===

 In this video, we're going to talk about Bactrim, also known as Co-Trimoxazole. Bactrim is a fixed dose combination of Trimethoprim and Sulfamethoxazole in a 1 to 5 ratio. Together they provide synergistic bacteriocidal activity, bi-sequential inhibition of folate metabolism enhancing antimicrobial efficacy while limiting resistance, Bactrim is a variable in oral and intravenous. Bactrim is a variable in oral and intravenous forms. Let's look at the mechanism of action. The mechanism of action. The Sulfamethoxazole inhibits dihydropteroate synthase, which therefore blocks the conversion of something called P-ABA, They, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this that the sequential inhibition of these two enzymes really inhibit folate synthesis, and so disruption of DNA and RNA synthesis. And this will cause bactericidal effects due to the combination effect. Individually, they are bacteriostatic, but together they are bactericidal. The synergy enhances spectrum and potency. Combination achieves broad coverage with reduced minimum inhibitory concentration compared to just monotherapy. So the spectrum of activity. Bactrim has broad spectrum coverage. They're good against gram-positive, staphylococcus aureus, including MRSA, streptococcus pneumoniae, gram-negative, including E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Haemophilus influenzae, and Nocardia, as well as fungal and protozoan microbes, including Pneumocystis cerevici, Toxoplasma gondii. They have poor coverage, however, against bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterococcus, most anaerobes, and Mycoplasma and Chlamydia. And so the clinical indication for Bactrim typically include UTIs, Prostatitis, Acute Cystitis, Pneumocystis urovici pneumoniae, both for treatment and prophylaxis, so PJP, Nocardiosis from Nocardia, Cyclosporiasis, and Perlin skin infections. Let's look at the pharmacokinetics of Bactrim. So the oral bioavailability is about 85 to 100%. This means when taken by mouth, almost all the drug gets absorbed into the bloodstream. That's very high compared to many drugs, meaning oral dosing is actually effective. The distribution of Bactrim is wide, as it achieves therapeutic levels in urine, prostate, lungs, and cerebrospinal fluid. After absorption, the drug spreads throughout the body and it reaches effective concentrations in many important tissues, including those I mentioned, urinary tract, prostate, lungs, and even their cerebrospinal fluid. The half-life of Bactrim is about 10 hours. It is much more prolonged in renal dysfunction. This basically means how long it takes for half the drug to be cleared from the body. Excretion is essentially through the kidneys, both unchanged and metabolites. Most of the drugs actually leave the body through the kidneys in urine, partly as the original drug and partly as breakdown products. There is no adjustments in Bactrim dose with hepatic impairment. Renal dose adjustment, however, is essential, especially in elderly or in prolonged use. Because remember, Bactrim is cleared by the kidneys. What is resistance to Bactrim? So what about resistance to Bactrim? Well, this can happen through a number of ways. Firstly, mutation or overproduction of dihydrofolate reductase or dihydropteroate synthase. There can also be plasmid-mediated resistance, especially in E. coli. Resistance is increasing, and particularly with uropathogens, so urinary bacteria. We do not typically use empirically Bactrim for UTIs in areas where E. coli resistance is greater than 20%. The adverse effects of Bactrim, like many antibiotics, include standard gut upset, rash, photosensitivity, hyperkalemia, important adverse reaction to Bactrim, as well as increased creatinine without a drop in GFR. This is because trimethoprim competes for tubular secretion of creatinine, therefore less secretion of creatinine. Trimethoprim blocks distal tubular secretion of potassium, which leads to the hyperkalemia I mentioned. Some serious and rare side effects include Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. But these are very severe skin reactions from a drug allergy. Other serious and rare side effects include aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, especially in G6PD deficiency, crystal urea, interstitial nephritis, and hepatotoxicity. It's really important to monitor potassium and renal function in elderly, or those on ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers, or spironolactone. Because there is some worrisome association with sudden death, presumably due to cardiac dysarrhythmias. Because when taking Bactrim, as mentioned, some people are much more sensitive, especially with these drugs, and they can cause quite significant hyperkalemia, leading to possible dysarrhythmias. So what are some contraindications and cautions then? Well, contraindication for one, pregnancy, especially in the first trimester. Bactrim is not allowed. And this is because it inhibits dihydrofolate reductase. It's an antifolate and therefore teratogenic. It's contraindicated in G6PD deficiency, as well as severe liver or renal disease, and those with sulfur allergy. Caution needs to be taken when studying Bactrim, especially in the elderly and those on nephrotoxic or potassium-sparing diuretics. Drug interactions to note. With warfarin, it can increase INR. With ACE inhibitors and ARBs, potassium-sparing diuretics, it can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. And obviously taking Bactrim in those with methotrexate, it can increase the risk of myelosuppression. Because of the additive effects, methotrexate inhibits dihydrofolate reductase, as so does trimethoprim. Finally, sulfamethoxazole in Bactrim is structurally different from non-antimicrobial sulfanamides, such as sulfanolurea, diuretics, and Celebrex. Therefore, there is minimal concern for a hypersensitivity reaction to these medications if someone had a history of a reaction to Bactrim or other sulfanamide antibiotics, including Dapsone. So in summary, we talked about Bactrim, which is trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole in a 1 to 5 ratio. So, together they provide a synergistic bactericidal activity. So, killing the bacteria. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Carbapenem Antibiotics - Meropenem, Imipenem, Ertapenem [Gn_HooKyVvs].txt ===

 Hello, in this video, we're going to talk about carbapenems, which are beta-lactam antibiotics, which are beta-lactam antibiotics derived from theanomycin, a compound produced by Streptomyces, Cataleia. Carbapenems include antibiotics such as imipenem, meropenem, and urtapenem, and these guys are the hard hitters and used to target a variety of bacteria. Carbapenems are a type of beta-lactam antibiotics because of beta-lactam antibiotics because of beta-lactam antibiotics because of the beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring in their molecular structure include penicillins, cephalosporins, and monobactams. In contrast to penicillins, which we are all aware of, carbapenems have a carbon instead of a sulfur atom in the first position and an unsaturated bond in the fifth, membered membered a ring. Carbapenem unique side chains in the trans position, unlike in the cis position, like in the other beta-lactams, make them resistant to several beta-lactamases, which are these enzymes that essentially inhibit the beta-lactam antibiotics. The carbapenems are resistant to several beta-lactamases, like extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. So let's talk about the mechanism of action. Broadly speaking, as a compound class, carbapenems show limited permeability of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria. And for this reason, carbapenems are reliant on the presence of an outer membrane protein, porin, to facilitate their entry into the gram-negative bacteria. For example, the OPRD is implicated as a key transport channel for carbapenems facilitating entry into Pseudomonas aeruginosa. As like other beta-lactam antibiotics, carbapenems affect bacterial cell wall and prevent bacterial cell wall synthesis, resulting in bacterial cell lysis. They show bactericidal properties against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. Carbapenems bind to penicillin-binding proteins, or PBPs, and they essentially inactivate them. What happens is they prevent the final transpeptidation step during the bacterial cell wall synthesis, the peptidoglycan synthesis, resulting in no elongation and cross-linking of the peptidoglycan in the bacterial cell wall. And as a result, the bacteria can't develop their cell wall, and ultimately, they die. But, of course, like many antibiotics, resistance can develop. And despite being a very powerful beta-lactam, bacteria itself can still develop all these resistance against the carbapenems. And resistance in general, how they develop in beta-lactam antibiotics, occur through four mechanisms. First of all, the production of a low-affinity penicillin-binding protein target. Second, the reduced outer membrane permeability due to the absence of an outer membrane protein, such as mentioned the OPRD in gram-negative bacteria. The presence of an efflux pump or channel that will allow the drug to be pumped out of the bacteria, specifically gram-negative bacteria. And finally, importantly, the production of beta-lactamases, which are these enzymes that hydrolyze and break down beta-lactam antibiotics, including carbapenems. And in carbapenem's case, if they are broken down and become ineffective, these enzymes that break carbapenems down are called carbapenemases. And so I want to talk more about carbapenem resistance, which is very important. Carbapenems are normally effective against a wide range of bacteria, especially a group of bacteria that produce ESBL, which refers to extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. ESBL producing enterobacteria group, for example, are a big problem because they produce a lot of these enzymes, these beta-lactamases that inhibit the antibiotics prescribed, including penicillins and keflosporins. Carbapenems are like heroes because they are actually effective against ESBL producing bacteria. However, carbapenem resistance do occur, and they occur in enterobacter group. And they are due to a number of combinations of impermeability of the antibiotic by loss of membrane porins, for example, plus efflux pump system, plus the presence of beta-lactamases, such as still the ESBL or the AMP-C enzyme. The ESBL and AMP-C beta-lactamases, both of which are chromosomally encoded beta-lactamase. Resistance to carbapenems are scary, as carbapenems are often seen as the top dog in antibiotics. And thus, appropriate use of antibiotics from the get-go and reducing the risk of antimicrobial resistance is very important. So when do carbapenems get used? Carbapenems have the broadest antibacterial spectrum of all the beta-lactam antibiotics. Imipenem is slightly more active against gram-positive bacteria, whereas meropenem and erdapenem are slightly more active against gram-negative species. Meropenem is most active against pseudomonas aeruginosa. Carbapenems may be used to treat a wide variety of severe infections, such as obstetrics and gynecological infections, complicated urinary tract infections, soft tissue and bone infections. Imipenem and meropenem are also used for the treatment of serious infections, such as patients with polymicrobial infections, febrile neutropenia and nosocomial infections, such as those caused by pseudomonas aeruginosa or actinobacter species. As mentioned, carbapenems are also used to treat ESBL-producing gram-negative bacterial infections. Carbapenems are also used for infections caused by the AMP-C beta-lactamase-producing organisms. And this group is called the S-CAM group, which include Enterobacter species, Serratia species, C. furundi, Actinobacter species, P. furgaris, Providentia species, and M. morgani. The S-CAM group is an important one to remember, as this often comes up in exams, and again is related to the production of AMP-C beta-lactamase. Pharmacologically, imipenem, meropenem, and erdipenem have poor oral absorption and are given intravenously. Imipenem and meropenem are pharmacologically similar, with a plasma half-life of one hour, whereas erdipenem has a plasma half-life of four hours, which permits a one-daily dosing. All carbapenems are widely distributed and penetrate inflamed meninges. All carbapenems are renally excreted and require dose modifications and renal failure. Monitoring the renal function is vital because carbapenems should always be dose-adjusted. Very important, when using imipenem, imipenem is actually a substrate for an enzyme called renal dehydropeptidase 1. And so, when using imipenem, it's important to co-administer psilastatin, this DHP1 enzyme inhibitor, to allow imipenem to still function. And this leads to the toxicity and side effects. Beta-lactam allergic reactions are commonest side effects, rash, urticaria, immediate hypersensitivity, and cross-reactivity with penicillins. Imipenem causes nausea if infused too quickly and can cause seizures. Imipenem, as I mentioned, is actually a substrate for an enzyme and is broken down in the kidneys to a toxic metabolite by that enzyme DHP1. And so, psilastatin is used to sustain the body's level of imipenem and to prevent the actual toxic substrate, which is actually damaging to the kidneys. So, in summary, copapenems are a beta-lactam antibiotic that are used for a variety of infections and target both gram-positive, but in particular, gram-negative bacteria. Its unique structure allows it to work against a lot of bacteria, including extended-spectrum beta-lactamases. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Cephalosporins Made Simple ｜ Generations, Mechanism & Clinical Uses [zjFJA9I2a4w].txt ===

 inf infot. In this video we're going to talk about kephlosporins. In this video we're going to talk about kephlosporins. Giuseppe Brozzi, an Italian man, first demonstrated the antimicrobial activity of culture filtrates of the mold Keflosporium acrimonium in 1945. Keflosporins consist of a beta-lactam ring and a six-member dihydrothiazide ring modified at certain positions to produce different compounds. This Keflosporin is used as an antibiotic and is classed as a beta-lactam. So, Keflosporins are a type of beta-lactam antibiotic because of the beta-lactam ring. Other antibiotic groups that have a beta-lactam ring in their molecular structure include penicillins, monobactams, and carbapenems. There is a separate video on penicillins if you're interested. Now, Keflosporins are typically classified into generations. Each successive generation acquiring better gram-negative activity, usually at the expense of some gram-positive. Generation 4 and 5 have broad-spectrum activity. Not every country agrees on which agent belongs in which generation. So, first generation primarily is active against gram-positive bacteria, and these antibiotics include kefazolin and kefalexin. Second generation enhances the activity against gram-negative bacteria with varying degrees of activity against gram-positive. These include kefuroxin, kefazolin, and kefotetan. Third generation have markedly increased activity against gram-negative bacteria, as we know, with successive generation. And these really include kefotaxime, keftriaxone, which has poor activity against pseudomonas. But then you have keftazidime in this group, which is very good against pseudomonas aeruginosa. Now, the fourth generation, kefosporin, has broad spectrum of activity against gram-positive cocci and gram-negative bacteria, including pseudomonas species. And these include kefapime and kefpirome. Now, the fifth generation is a bit different, as it doesn't have amazing gram-negative cover, but it's really good against MRSA. And this antibiotic is keftaroline, as well as keftobiprol, which is also useful against pseudomonas and enterococci species. So, how do these different kefosporins work? Well, in summary, they work by inhibiting cell wall synthesis, just like penicillins. They bind to these things called penicillin-binding proteins, or PBPs, and inhibit transpeptidation of peptidoglycans. They essentially cause bacterias to die, so they're bactericidal, and exhibit significant post-antibiotic effect against gram-positive, but not gram-negative bacteria. So, what I mean by that is that even after stopping the antibiotics, there is still an effect of the antibiotic against gram-positive bacteria, but not so much gram-negative bacteria. So, you need to use it more often. Now, unfortunately, like all antibiotics, bacteria can develop resistance to antibiotics through several mechanisms. Firstly, through destruction of antibiotic by beta-lactamases. So, beta-lactamases are enzymes that can break down beta-lactam antibiotics, including kefosporins. They can promote reduced penetration of the antibiotics through the outer membrane of specifically gram-negative bacteria. They can have enhanced efflux, so pumping out the antibiotic, or alterations in the penicillin-binding protein target, resulting in reduced affinity binding, so reduced affinity of the antibiotic to the actual target. So, what are the clinical uses of kefosporins? Well, there are so many generations that each generation is used for really specific type of infections. First generations are typically used for gram-positives, so these include staphylococcal or streptococcal skin infections or soft tissue infections, and even UTIs. Second generation use includes severe community-acquired pneumonia, otitis media, streptococcal pharyngitis. Third generation use includes meningitis, upper respiratory tract infections, as well as pneumonia, sinusitis, otitis media, some nosocomial infections, nesirgonorrhea, typhoid, and also shigella. Fourth generation, as mentioned, is quite strong against gram-negative infections, and so it's useful against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, entericobacter species, citrobacter species, and serratia species, so really the resistant guys. So, in terms of pharmacology, kefosporins can be given either oral, intravenous, or intramuscular. Fourth generation drugs are all parenteral. Oral preparations have 80 to 95% bioavailability, and protein binding is variable, up to between 10 to 98%. Kefosporins typically have poor cerebrospinal fluid penetration, unless there's meningeal inflammation. It crosses the placenta. Most drugs are not metabolized, except kefotaxime, which is metabolized in the liver. Most drugs are excreted by the kidneys, except keftriaxone and kefopirazone, which are excreted by the biliary system. And so you can get biliary derangement from sludge formation when using these antibiotics. Speaking of this, let's talk about the toxicities and side effects. Hypersensitivity is quite common, and up to 3%. Other hypersensitivity reactions include serum sickness, and anaphylaxis is rare. GI symptoms are common, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting. Transient hepatitis occurs in 7%, and biliary sludge, especially with keftriaxone. Hematological complications, people can develop esinophilia, cytopenias, and hemolytic anemia. Renal toxicities include interstitial nephritis. Central nervous system complications, seizures are rare. Also, there can be false positive laboratory testing, with Coombs test being positive. Also, note that with really most antibiotics, but specifically beta-lactam antibiotics, they can cause a drug fever, which might not be detrimental, but may cause someone to change the antibiotics they use. So, in summary, keflosporin is an antibiotic with multiple uses. It is divided based on the generation. So, 1 to 4, with increased activity towards gram-negative, with the expense of gram-positive. And, of course, toxicities really are similar to penicillins, including rash, GI manifestations, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, as well as some hematological complications. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Femoroacetabular Impingement Explained： Groin Pain, Labral Tears, Best Exercises & Surgery [5qC3tjbCePE].txt ===

 As a. Acetabular impingement syndrome, more commonly referred to as femoral acetabular impingement, FAI syndrome, is a clinical condition where abnormal contact between the femoral head-neck junction and the acetabular rim leads to hip joint damage. It predominantly affects young to middle-aged adults, it predominantly affects young to middle-aged active adults and is a well-recognized cause of early-onset osteoarthritis of the hip. Patients with femoral acetabular impingement typically present with insidious onset groin pain which may radiate to the lateral hip, buttock or thigh. The pain is often exacerbated by hip flexion, internal rotation, and prolong posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit posit So let's look at the pathophysiological concept. Femoral acetabular impingement occurs due to abnormal bony morphology. That leads to repetitive microtrauma at the femoral acetabular junction. There are two primary morphologies. You can develop a CAM type lesion, which is a aspherical femoral head or a bony bump. At the head-neck junction, which causes shear force on the acetabular cartilage and labrum during flexion and rotation of the hip. Or you can develop pensa type lesion, where you have over coverage of the femoral head by the acetabulum. You get essentially a deep socket or retroversion. And this results in linear contact between the labrum and femoral neck. You can also have a mixed type, where most patients really have features of both CAM and pensa impingement. Over time, though, this abnormal contact can cause labral tears, chondral delamination, and progressive joint degeneration. Diagnosis is made based on a combination of clinical features and imaging. So on examination, pain is typically reproduced by the FADIA test, where you flex the hip, adduction of the hip, and internal rotation, FADIA. Plain anteroposterior pelvic x-rays and lateral hip views are used to assess the shape of the femoral head and acetabular coverage. A CAM lesion appears as loss of the femoral head-neck offset, as shown by this x-ray. While a pincer lesion are seen as acetabular over coverage or a crossover sign, as shown in this x-ray. MRI or MR arthrogram can evaluate the labrum and cartilage for associated pathology. And a CT scan may be used for detailed 3D assessment, particularly pre-surgically. Differential diagnosis for this groin type pain or pathology or similar presentation include acetabular dysplasia, transient osteoporosis of the hip, avascular necrosis or stress fracture, and extra-articular causes of hip pain such as iliopsoas tendinopathy or athletic pubalgia. A careful history and appropriate imaging help differentiate these entities. And really, MRI is very useful in this case. Initial management for femoral acetabular impingement syndrome is non-surgical. And these non-surgical managements include activity modification, so avoiding positions that exacerbate the impingement such as deep squat or prolonged sitting. Physiotherapy focuses on core strengthening and improving hip range of motion. Analgesia such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories can also be used. Intra-articular corticosteroid injections for symptom relief and diagnostic purposes may also be used. If symptoms persist despite conservative measures, hip arthroscopy may be considered. Surgery involves remodeling the femoral head-neck junction, osteoplastia, and or acetabular rim trimming, along with labral repair if needed. The outcomes are generally favorable in well-selected patients, especially if performed before the onset of advanced osteoarthritis. In summary, femoral acetabular impingement syndrome is an important and increasingly recognized cause of hip pain in young adults. Early identification and management are key to preserving joint health and preventing the progression to osteoarthritis. The results are key to Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio Bio

=== FILE: Helminths Explained： Tapeworms, Roundworms & Flukes ｜ Parasite Overview for Students [1kvwOQisQxI].txt ===

 Helminth, which we'll focus on, and the ectoparasites. Helminth comes from the greek word helminth, which means intestinal worm. So let's talk about each one of these three types of helminths in more detail, beginning with flukes. So flukes, also known as trematodes, are leaf-shaped flat worms. They're flat. Majority are hermaphrodites, meaning they have both male testes and female uterus, reproductive organs in the same person. The schistosomes are the only trematodes which have different sexes, so they individually have male and female reproductive organs. Trematodes have two suckers, mouth openings, one oral and one ventral, which help them to move and anchor to host tissue. The mouth openings form their digestive tract, which funnily enough ends sort of blindly. Trematodes therefore have an incomplete digestive tract. They usually regurgitate things back out. Trematodes' bodies are covered with tegumet, which is usually armed with scale-like spines. The tegumet allows for the absorption of nutrients and excretion of wastes. The two suckers allow the adult worm to attach and move around in the definitive host, such as the human, for example. And they could attach to things such as the lungs, liver and the stomach. Sources of transmission of human infection include fish, crustaceans and aquatic plants. There are many types of trematodes or flukes. Different species of flukes tend to infect different parts of the human body. And this is a good way to classify the trematodes or the flukes. You have blood flukes, which are the schistosomas, the liver flukes, which are the clonorkis, lung flukes, paragonimus, and intestinal flukes, fasciolopsis buschi. Now the next type of helminths are the tapeworms, also known as the cestoids. Tapeworms are another type of flatworm. They're flat. Adult tapeworms are elongated, segmented flatworms. There are also hermaphrodites. The head has one or more hooked suckers for firm attachment to the host. Behind the head is the neck, which is the growing region. The body consists of segments called proglottid, each containing reproductive organs. And because they're hermaphrodites, they contain both male and female reproductive organs. The neck is an unsegmented region with high regenerative capacity. If treatment does not eliminate the neck, the entire worm can actually regenerate and grow. Tapeworms have no digestive system, no mouth, no anus. Tapeworms have no digestive system. The digested food of the host is absorbed through the body wall of the tapeworms. The life cycle of tapeworms is complicated and actually involves one, two, or three intermediate hosts. Important tapeworms that infect humans can be grouped into those that infect the intestines and those that infect other tissues, other organs. Tapeworms which typically infect the gastrointestinal tract genre include diphylobothrium, hymenolipus, tenea. Tapeworms genres that infect other tissues include eshinococcus. Now the third and last type of helminth are the roundworms called nematodes. Roundworms are cylindrical worms. They have a complete digestive tract. They are not flat. They are cylindrical and round. And so they contain a body cavity. They inhabit intestinal and extra-intestinal sites within our bodies. Roundworms can either gain entry to the host by egg ingestion, such as trichuris, enterobius, and escaris. And then there are those that are capable of producing lava that then penetrate the skin of their host, such as strunguloides, or produce lava that then penetrate the mucosa, such as with escaris. Roundworms can actually be classified easily based on their life cycles. So you have group one. Group one roundworms are those that attach and grow in the intestine soon after being ingested. And these include trichuris and enterobius. Group two are the roundworms that first penetrate the venous system, either via the skin or via the intestine. They then enter the lungs and then migrate up the bronchi to the trachea, where they will be swallowed again into the intestines. And this group include Ascaris, Stranguloides, and the hookworms, and Psyllostoma duodenale, and Necato americanus. So those are three groups of helminths, broadly speaking. But within each of these groups, there are those that are also referred to as soil-transmitted helminths. Now, soil-transmitted helminths are a group of parasitic worms that infect humans through contaminated soil. And these worms are commonly found in areas with poor sanitization and hygiene practices, especially in tropical and subtropical regions. The most common types of soil-transmitted helminths include Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworms, the Ancyclostoma duodenale and Necato americanus, and the whipworm, Trichuris trichura. Now, moving on to diagnoses. The diagnosis of helminths is generally made by examining the stool or tissues of specific organs, looking for eggs, larvae, or the adult worm forms. And this is usually identified through a microscope. Treatment of helminths infection is with antiparasitic medication. So, in summary, helminths are large, multicellular organisms that are generally visible to the naked eye in their adult stage. Like protozoa, helminths can either be free-living or parasitic in nature, meaning they could live in the environment or they can infect humans. Helminths are classified into three types. Flukes, the trematodes. Tapeworms, the sestoids. And roundworms, the nematodes. If we draw a table here, we can briefly summarize each of their characteristics. So, first and foremost are the trematodes. Their shape is unsegmented. They have no body cavity because they're flat. They have an incomplete digestive tract. And they're hermaphrodites, except for schistosoma. The sestoids, also known as the tapeworms. These guys have a segmented plane without a body cavity because they're flat. And they do not have a digestive system. And they're also hermaphrodites. The final ones are the roundworms or the nematodes. These guys are cylindrical. They do contain a body cavity. And they have a complete digestive tract. And they're either male or female. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Inflammatory vs non-inflammatory arthritis [NobJ6tFBato].txt ===

 In this video we will compare osteoarthritis, which is a typically non-inflammatory arthritis, which is a typically non-inflammatory arthritis, to rheumatoid arthritis, a very common inflammatory arthritis. Let us review a normal synovial joint, which is the most common type of joint found in the human body. An example of a synovial joint is the knee...... as it provides and produces synovial fluid. The synovial fluid located within the joint cavity of a synovial joint has three primary functions. Lubrication, it also distributes nutrients and acts as a shock absorber. Let's take a look at some features of non-inflammatory arthritis, which is osteoarthritis. Here is a hand of someone with osteoarthritis. Looking into this osteoarthritic joint, there are some noticeable changes. First of all, there is thinning of the cartilage. There is loss of joint space. The loss of space triggers bone cells to grow and form osteocytes. There is subchondral sclerosis, where the area below the cartilage becomes hard and compacted. You can also find something called subchondral cysts, which are really fluid-filled sacs within the bone. These changes cause the features we see in a hand and in a joint of someone with osteoarthritis. Inflammatory arthritis, on the other hand, such as rheumatoid arthritis, is much more aggressive and can cause deformities if not treated appropriately. Here are hands of someone with advanced rheumatoid arthritis. A joint that is actively inflamed can cause bone erosions eventually. There is inflammation and thickening of the synovial membrane, causing a tender, painful and red joint. In rheumatoid arthritis, interestingly, the distribution of inflammation is symmetrical, involving the knuckles, the metacarpophalangeal joints and the proximal interphalangeal joints. The inflamed synovial membrane produces more synovial fluid in the joint space, causing the joint to swell up. There is an increased number of inflammatory cells, such as neutrophils, to the area. Over time, the inflammation damages the cartilage causing thin cartilage, as well as significant damage and bone damage. Typical features that differentiate osteoarthritis from rheumatoid arthritis. First of all, osteoarthritis pain typically involves any joint, but typically the distal interphalangeal joint, proximal interphalangeal joint, and first carpometacarpal joints. Although, again, it can occur anywhere with overuse. Bone growth can occur at specific sites, including the distal interphalangeal joints, called hembedans' nodes, and at the proximal interphalangeal joints, called Bouchard's nodes. In rheumatoid arthritis, the joints affected in the hands are namely the wrist, the metacarpophalangeal joint and the proximal interphalangeal joint. Over time, you can get ulna deviation and something called Z-deformity of the thumb. Now those are some visual features that differentiate osteo to rheumatoid or inflammatory arthritis. Let us take a look at other features that differentiate between the two. First of all, prolonged morning stiffness is typically absent in osteoarthritis and present in rheumatoid arthritis. Pain is more prominent at the end of the day with osteoarthritis and in the morning with rheumatoid arthritis. Swelling of joints is described as bony in osteoarthritis, whereas swelling in inflammatory arthritis causes soft tissue swelling. Over the joint of osteoarthritis, there is absent erythema, which is redness and warmth, while in rheumatoid arthritis it is common to have redness and warmth during a flare. Systemic features are absent in osteoarthritis, whereas in rheumatoid arthritis they can have other features such as fevers, red eyes, fatigue, low grade fevers. When fluid is taken out of a joint of someone with osteoarthritis, there is typically less than 2000 white cell count per area. Whereas in rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthritis, the white cell count is greater than 2000 during a flare. Blood tests are also a good differentiator. In osteoarthritis, inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate are normal, whereas in rheumatoid arthritis, they are present and elevated, and obviously elevated during a flare. In summary, this video provides an overview of the key differences between non-inflammatory and inflammatory arthritis, specifically focusing on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis through the examination of the joint structure, symptoms, and very important features. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Introduction to Connective Tissues - Dense, Loose, Specialised [xevM4I51I5w].txt ===

 Hello, in this video we're going to talk about connective tissues. Connective tissues. Connective tissue serves as the structural framework of the body linking, separating and providing support to other tissue types. It is unique among tissues because its cells are dispersed within an extracellular matrix, ECM, that is more loosely organized, organized than in other tissues such as the muscle or epithelial. The extracellular matrix consists of a fluid compartment that surrounds the cells. There are primarily two types of connective tissue. There are primarily two types of connective tissue and each place will categorize these differently, but briefly speaking, the two are connective tissue proper and specialized connective tissue. Connective tissue proper is further classified into loose and dense connective tissue. Specialized connective tissue includes reticular, blood, bone, cartilage and adipose tissues. Though perhaps less glamorous than muscle or neural tissue, connective tissue is vital for maintaining the unity and function of the body's various systems. So let's look at the components of what make up a connective tissue. Connective tissue comprises three key elements. The cells, ground substance and fibers, all of which form the extracellular matrix. The cells itself, these are the fibroblasts, which are the main cells, and they are responsible for generating the energy of the body. They are responsible for generating and sustaining the extracellular matrix. Other cell types found in this area include immune cells like macrophages, lymphocytes and mast cells, and adipocytes, which are your fat cells. Specialized forms of connective tissue have their own unique cells, such as chondrocytes in cartilage and osteocytes in bone. Now, ground substance, which is the other part of connective tissue, this is like a gel-like medium, which facilitates hydration and nutrient diffusion. It contains water, proteoglycans, glycoproteins and glycosaminoglycans. Now, the fiber is the other important part of the extracellular matrix, together with the ground substance. The fibers are what is produced by the fibroblasts, the cells, the main cells, in connective tissue. There are three fiber types, collagen, elastic and reticular fibers, each contributing distinct properties to the tissue. Collagen is the most abundant, and it is tough. Elastic fibers allow for stretching and recoil, whereas reticular are quite strong and rigid as well. Now, let's talk about the two types of connective tissue, beginning with connective tissue proper. Connective tissue proper includes loose connective tissue, also known as areola tissue. These basically wrap and cushion organs. These guys are the epitome of flexibility and softness. It's like the body's version of packing material, filling spaces with a soft matrix that holds everything in place, while allowing for the exchange of nutrients and waste between the bloodstream and the cells. Its composition is a balanced mix of cells such as the fibroblasts and macrophages. All the three fibers are found and the ground substance, creating a loosely organized, flexible mesh that can withstand limited forces, but is primarily designed for cushioning and support. Examples of loose connective tissue include what we find in the lamina propria of the alimentary canal and the respiratory tract, the mucous membranes of the reproductive and urinary tracts, the glands, the mesentry, and the dermis of the skin. Next is dense connective tissue, which is again another type of connective tissue proper. Dense connective tissue, in stark contrast, dense connective tissue is the body's equivalent of reinforced concrete. It's tougher, more compact, and designed to handle stress and strain. It's comprised predominantly of collagen fibers, densely packed together, and this tissue type gives tendons and the ligaments their incredible tensile strength, enabling them to withstand the rigorous demands of movement and support. The extracellular matrix is densely packed with collagen fibers. Based on the arrangement of the fibers, there are two subtypes of dense connective tissue. These are dense regular and dense irregular. Dense regular connective tissue has the collagen fibers aligned parallel to each other. This arrangement provides the tissue with high unidirectional resistance to stress. The best dense regular connective tissue example are your tendons and ligaments. Dense irregular connective tissue has collagen fibers randomly interwoven, forming a three-dimensional network resistant to distension in all directions. It is usually located in the capsules of joints and walls of organs. So those were the connective tissue proper. Let's look at the specialized connective tissue, beginning with reticular connective tissue. This type of connective tissue forms supportive framework of organs such as your lymph nodes, spleen and bone marrow. It's characterized by a network of fibroblasts, specifically reticulocytes, as well as reticular fibers. These are the specific type of fiber. Reticular connective tissue supports other cell types, specifically white blood cells, and that is why they are found predominantly in these organs and sites where we find a lot of white blood cells, such as your lymph nodes and your spleen. Next is adipose tissue, which is a specialized connective tissue. Essentially, it is body fat. It's specialized in storing energy in the form of lipids. Beyond energy storage, adipose tissue also provides insulation, protection and serves as an endocrine organ, releasing hormones that regulate metabolism. There are two types of adipose tissue, white and brown adipose tissue. White adipose tissue is the most abundant, storing energy and cushioning organs, while brown adipose tissue is rich in mitochondria and specializes in generating heat, playing a crucial role in thermoregulation, especially in infants. Reticular connective tissue and adipose connective tissue has also been classified as loose connective tissue, which is part of connective tissue proper, but we've separated that into its own category. Then you have cartilage, which is also a connective tissue. But unlike other connective tissue, cartilage is avascular, meaning it lacks blood supply. And it relies on diffusion through the matrix to receive nutrients and remove wastes. This feature, combined with its unique extracellular matrix rich in water and specialized fibers, allows cartilage to absorb shock and reduce friction in joints. Cartilage comes in three main types. These are your highline cartilage, which is the most abundant. First, abundant. These are found in the ribs, nose, larynx and trachea, as well as covering bones at joint surfaces. It provides sturdy, yet flexible support. Elastic cartilage contains a high concentration of elastic fibers, giving it enhanced flexibility, found in structures that require bending like the ear and the epiglottis. Then you have your fibrocartilage, the toughest type. It contains thick bundles of collagen fibers, the strong fibers. It is found in areas subjected to heavy pressure and stretch, such as the intervertebral discs, the meniscus of the knee and the pubic symphysis. The bone is also a connective tissue. Bone tissue or osseous tissue forms the rigid structure of the skeleton. It's a dynamic living tissue that continuously remodels itself. Bones provide protection to vital organs, support the body, facilitate movement by anchoring muscles, and serves as a reservoir for minerals like calcium and phosphate. The extracellular matrix of bone is rich in collagen fibers and mineral salts, giving it strength and rigidity while allowing for slight flexibility. Bone cells include osteoblasts, osteocytes, and osteoclasts, are involved in the formation, the maintenance, and resorption of bone tissue, showcasing the tissue's dynamic nature in growth and healing. The final type of specialized connective tissue is the blood. Blood is a fluid connective tissue, unlike any other. It's tasked with the vital role of transportation within the body. It transports oxygen, nutrients, waste products, and various cells throughout the body, playing a key role in immunity, regulation of pH, and temperature control. Blood is composed of a liquid matrix called plasma, in which red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended. This composition allows blood to perform a wide range of function, from delivery of oxygen to wound clotting and immune defense. So in summary, each type of connective tissue, with its unique composition and arrangement of cells, fibers, and ground substance, plays a crucial role in the body's structure and function, highlighting the interconnectedness and complexity of bodily systems. We divided connective tissue into two broad types, connective tissue proper, and specialized connective tissue, which include a whole lot, include bone, cartilage, blood, and even adipose tissue. Thank you for watching. Thank you.

=== FILE: Lateral Ankle Pain - anatomy and causes of pain in the outer part of the ankle [UMvNBJ1h_Wc].txt ===

 The ankle joint is formed by the bones of the leg, the tibia and the fibula, and then the foot, the talus. Lateral ankle pain is common, and the most common cause is an ankle sprain. However, there are other causes which we will explore. stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat stat lateral ligaments that help resist foot moving inwards, so inversion. These lateral ligaments are the antero-tallofibular ligament, calcaneofibular ligament and the posterior talofibular ligament. The perineal tendons that are formed by the perineal muscles, they wrap under the lateral malleolus. The sinus tarsi and the base of the fifth metatarsal, the fifth toe. And so the lateral ankle or outer ankle pain can be caused by problems in any one of these areas. Let's look at some common causes of pain in the outer ankle. Ankle sprains is where you have injury to the lateral ligaments of the ankle joint, usually from an inversion injury. Foot is moved inwards, usually this heals slowly, by itself with rest. Lateral ankle sprains that don't improve may mean another underlying injury that occurred with the sprain, such as a damaged cartilage, fracture, impingement syndrome, perineal tendon issues such as tendinopathy, rupture or dislocation, and then sinus tarsi syndrome. Let's talk about anterolateral impingement syndrome, which is the cause of lateral ankle pain. This condition is most commonly the result of soft tissue scar buildup in this specific location after prior injury to the ankle. The tissues effectively gets pinched, or sandwiched between the talus and tibia, and or the fibular bones, as the available space decreases during certain movements, mainly dorsiflexion. And so dorsiflexion will obviously elicit the pain. The lunge test, which causes the pinching of the tissue in between the talus and tibia, is positive, and reproduces that discomfort. Ostrigonum syndrome is referred to as posterior ankle impingement syndrome. An os trigonum is the result of a fracture of part of the posterior lateral tala tubercle or an unfused ossicle. Typically, an os trigonum is asymptomatic. However, it can become symptomatic following an overuse injury or ankle trauma in athletes and dancers, performing repetitive forced plantar flexion, such as in ballet dancing. And the idea or the thought is that as a result of this, it causes pinching of the surrounding tissue against the os trigonum, causing the pain. So pain is mainly the posterior ankle, worse with plantar flexion, because you're compressing that area, and you get tenderness at the posterolateral ankle region. So pain is also the result of the fracture of the posterior ankle pain. Fracture is an obvious cause of lateral ankle pain. An inversion injury can lead to fracture of the distal fibula, causing pain in the lateral aspect of the ankle. The proximal fifth metatarsal is the site of a number of fractures that can cause lateral ankle pain. These include avulsion fracture of the proximal fifth metatarsal, Jones fracture, and stress fracture. Because the blood supply may be disrupted, this can lead to poor bone healing. Perineal tendinopathy is another cause of lateral ankle pain. Perineal tendinopathy is irritation to one or both the perineal tendons, with subsequent degeneration and inflammation. In the ankle, there are two important tendons on the lateral aspect. These are the perineus longus and the perineus brevis tendons. The perineus also means fibularis, so it can be called perineus or the fibularis tendons. The two tendons run immediately posterior to the lateral malleolus, and both tendons act to evert the ankle, and can be injured with ankle inversion. The perineus longus tendon crosses along a groove in the cuboid and inserts on the base of the first metatarsal and medial cuneiform. The perineus brevis, brevis meaning short, the perineus brevis tendon insert at the base of the fifth metatarsal, so it's a lot shorter. Several factors can contribute to developing perineal tendinopathy, including previous ankle ligament strains, you know when you roll the ankle inwards. Valriss of the heel, where you have over supination. Perineal tendinopathy causes pain on the outer side of the ankle, particularly during physical activity. Symptoms tend to reappear when the ankle is passively turned inwards, because you're irritating that tendon as you're moving the foot in. The pain can also come when force is applied to turn it outward, meaning that the tendon normally wants to move the foot outwards, but against resistance it will trigger that pain. Another cause of lateral ankle pain is perineal tendon subluxation. The perineal tendons, like many tendons in the body, are held in place by supportive connective tissue, such as ligaments or the retinaculum. If the supportive tissue has been damaged or injured from recurrent inversion injuries, the tendon may be free to slip out of its normal position, and this is called subluxation. The tendons usually relocate by snapping back into place. Finally, perineal tendon tears can occur. Acute or chronic, from repeated inversion injuries, can cause microtairs to the perineal tendon. The end of the surgery is a bit complicated. Sinus talsi syndrome is a bit complicated, but in the front and below the lateral malleolus, there's a tiny bony passage that connects the talus and calconeal bones. This passage is a crucial component of the subtalar joint and houses the subtalar ligaments. It can sustain injury either from a sudden inward twisting of the foot or from ongoing strain caused by excessive pronation of the subtalar joint. Symptoms include pain aggravated by eversion, so the foot outwards, local tenderness over the sinus talsi, pain induced by forced passive inversion, and the diagnosis is confirmed by injecting local anesthetic in there. So in summary, lateral ankle pain has many causes, including ankle sprain, which is the most common, an inversion injury, impingement syndromes, and we talked about the anterior and posterior impingement syndrome, a fracture, perineal tendinopathy, as well as sinus talsi syndrome. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Medial Elbow Tendinopathy (Golfer’s Elbow) Explained [dXEa-viS87g].txt ===

 Medial elbow, also known as golfer's elbow, also known as golfer's elbow, involves tendinosis at the common origin of the flexor, pronator muscle groups, typically caused by repetitive flexion and pronation of the wrist. It is frequently observed in athletes involved in throwing sports, racket sports, racquet sports, and sports, park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park epicondyle. The epicondyle are bony prominences easily palpated on the medial and lateral sides of the distal humerus, just proximal to the elbow joint. The lateral humoral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand extensors. So this is where the extensors of the hands originate, whereas the medial humoral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand flexors. So these are where the hand flexors originate, the medial epicondyle. So medial elbow tendinopathy is essentially irritation or tendinosis of the medial epicondyle where the tendons insert. It is diagnosed clinically by the following findings. Localized tendinous over the medial epicondyle and proximal wrist flexor muscle mass. Pain with resisted wrist flexion and pronation with the elbow in full extension. Pain with passive wrist extension with the elbow in full extension. Medial elbow tendinopathy So what's the difference between medial and lateral elbow tendinopathy? Well, as the name suggests, medial elbow tendinopathy or golfer's elbow affects the inner elbow and is associated with the flexor pronator muscle group, leading to pain exacerbated by movements such as wrist flexion and pronation. Conversely, lateral or outer elbow tendinopathy, known as tennis elbow, impacts the outer elbow and involves the extensor muscles, particularly the extensor capi radialis brevis. Pain in lateral elbow tendinopathy typically worsens with wrist extension and supination movements. Investigations for medial elbow tendinopathy Well, imaging tests such as x-rays, ultrasounds and MRIs are not routinely performed but can be useful. Typically, x-rays do not show abnormalities, whereas ultrasound might reveal decreased echogenicity, inhomogeneity and thickening of the tendons, sometimes accompanied by a local fluid collection. MRIs can show increased signal intensity near the medial epicondyle. Treatment of medial elbow tendinopathy generally begins with non-operative methods, of course, including rest, application of ice, if it's acute, 10 to 20 minutes every few hours during acute stages, compression later on, and the use of topical, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as Voltaren gel, or oral anti-inflammatory drugs. If these conservative approaches fail, a treatment plan might include an injection of corticosteroid. It's crucial to limit the amount of injections given for tendinopathy, as there could be associated tendon damage and even complications to the ulnar nerve, which runs quite close to this area. If symptoms persist despite adequate conservative treatment, surgical intervention may be considered. Surgical treatment might involve releasing the flexor or pronator origin, removing granulation tissue, decorticating the medial epicondylar bone, and reconstructing the medial muscle tendinopathy. So in summary, we looked at medial elbow tendinopathy, also known as golfer's elbow, which involves tendinosis at the common origin of the flexor pronator muscle group. It's typically seen in people who do repetitive flexor and pronation of the wrist such as in golf or any throwing sports. Treatment includes conservative, corticosteroid injection, and very rarely surgery. So in summary, thank you for watching. So please park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park

=== FILE: Orbital VS Preorbital Cellulitis [oW3n7kTw2CQ].txt ===

 Hello, in this video we're going to talk about orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is a serious potentially life-threatening infection involving the contents of the orbit, the space where your eyeball sits. Orbital cellulitis includes inflammation of fat and extraocular muscles, the muscles that move your eyes. It must be distinguished from periorbital cellulitis. Sometimes called preceptal cellulitis, sometimes called preceptal cellulitis, which is an infection of the front part of the eyelid, which is an infection of the front part of the eyelid and is not as serious as orbital cellulitis. Neither of these infections actually involve the eye globe itself. Orbital cellulitis is an ophthalmic emergency because of the risk of vision loss and extension to other structures, including the cavernous sinus. Essentially, it can lead to thrombosis, clots, and even death. Let's first talk and learn about the anatomy. The orbit is a cone-shaped structure, lying horizontally with its apex in the skull. The orbit is surrounded by paranasal sinuses. These are namely the frontal sinus, lying superiorly, ethmoid, medially, and maxillary sinuses, inferiorly. The ethmoid sinuses are separated from the orbit by a paper-thin layer called lamina papyrusia, which contains many perforations for nerves and blood vessels, as well as some natural fenestrations, which is termed zucker candles dehiscences. The most common route of infection of the orbit is by extension from the ethmoid sinuses, likely facilitated through these perforations. Important anatomy to know is that the superior and inferior orbital veins drain blood directly into what's called the cavernous sinus. Because of this communication and because the inferior orbital veins are valveless and have no valves to prevent backflow, infections can pass really easily from the orbit and lead to cavernous sinus syndrome and other infections within the skull itself. So let's compare the differences between orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is an acute infection involving the contents of the orbit and is an ophthalmic emergency. Bacterial rhinosinus sinusitis is the most common cause of orbital cellulitis. Infection of the sinus can lead to perforation and extension of the bacterial infection from the ethmoid sinuses, most commonly, leading to orbital cellulitis. Other potential causes include ophthalmic surgeries, peribulbar anesthesia, where local anesthetic is really put around the eye within the orbit, orbital trauma with a fracture or foreign body, dacriocystitis, infection of the teeth, middle ear or face can also extend into the orbit. The causative organism of orbital cellulitis are often difficult to identify, but the most commonly identified pathogens are really those such as Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococci species, and others also include Haemophilus influenzae and anaerobic bacteria. Periorbital cellulitis, also termed preceptal cellulitis, is infection of the eyelid and surrounding skin and tissue anterior to the orbital septum. It is typically milder than orbital cellulitis, and it may follow infection of adjacent structures, also such as seen in dacriocystitis or trauma. The causative organisms are really quite similar to orbital cellulitis, including Staphylococci aureus, as well as Streptococci species. Looking at the clinical features, both orbital cellulitis and preceptal cellulitis cause ocular pain and eyelid swelling with erythema. Only orbital cellulitis causes swelling and inflammation of extraocular muscles and fatty tissue within the orbit, and this will lead to pain with eye movement and proptosis, which is essentially eyeball popping out. Infection of the ocular muscles can lead to ophthalmoplegia, because inflammation of the eye muscles will cause weakness of that muscle. People also have reduced visual acuity and even visual loss in orbital cellulitis, but it does not occur in periorbital cellulitis. The vision loss associated with orbital cellulitis is thought to result from any of the following processes. Number one, optic neuritis, which is inflammation of the optic nerve caused by nearby infection, ischemia resulting from thrombophlebitis along the orbital vein, and also pressure resulting in central retinal artery occlusion. The infection in orbital cellulitis, because it's deeper, it can extend. It can create abscesses in the orbit and subperiosteum, essentially within the bone. Infections can extend to the brain, the meninges, and as mentioned, the cavernous sinus. In the cavernous sinus, it can cause inflammation of some other cranial nerves, leading to bilateral cranial nerve palsies. Chemosis is also more common in orbital cellulitis. Fevers and high neutrophil count is more common in orbital cellulitis. Complications of orbital cellulitis may develop rapidly. Therefore, close monitoring is indicated with daily checks of visual acuity and assessment of pupillary light reflex. A sluggish or absent pupillary light reflex or a relative afferent pupillary defect indicates optic nerve involvement. Diagnosis The diagnosis of orbital cellulitis versus periorbital cellulitis is a clinical diagnosis with support gold standard by imaging. Although both periorbital cellulitis and orbital cellulitis typically cause eyelid swelling with or without redness, erythema, the presence of ophthalmoplegia, pain with eye movement, decreased vision, relative afferent pupillary defect, and proptosis occur only with orbital cellulitis. CT and MRI scan of the orbit sinus is important for diagnosis. In this CT image, you can see a case of orbital cellulitis of the right orbit, and you can see inflammation of the extraocular muscles, the fat stranding, and anterior displacement of the globe. This person has proptosis. There is also periorbital cellulitis as well on top of this. Any worsening of the patient's symptoms or signs should lead to repeat imaging using CT scans to determine the necessity for surgical intervention. Finally, treatment of orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis is really using empirical therapy with antibiotics. Orbital cellulitis, for example, vancomycin plus keftrioxone and metronidazole, or vancomycin and tazacin. Again, each country may differ. Modify your regime based on microbiology diagnosis. With mild periorbital cellulitis, amoxicillin and clavulinate can be used orally. So in summary, in this video, we talked about orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is an ophthalmic emergency because it can cause vision loss through several mechanisms. The most useful way to distinguish between the two is through clinical features. With orbital cellulitis, you have pain on eye movement, decreased vision, proptosis amongst pupillary changes, especially with light. Thank you for watching. Thank you.

=== FILE: Shoulder Anatomy for Clinical Practice ｜ Medical Student & Clinicians Review [NnBnmpkesA0].txt ===

 The shoulder joint is also known as the glenohumoral joint. It is a synovial joint that attaches the upper limb to the axial skeleton. The shoulder joint is a ball and socket joint. It is formed by the articulation of the head of the humerus and the head of the humerus and the joint, and the glenoid cavity, also known as Glenoid cavity, also known as Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa is Part of the scapula The articulating surfaces of the joint are covered with highline cartilage The as the glenote fossa. The glenote cavity or glenote fossa is part of the scapula. The articulating surfaces of the joint are covered with highline cartilage. The shoulder joint is the most mobile joint of the human body. It allows for a wide range of movement at the upper limb. Flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and external rotation, and circunduction. However, this mobility comes at a cost of stability, as its bony surface offer little support. The shoulder joint is instead surrounded by muscles and ligament structures that offer the joint security. Now, due to this, the shoulder joint is actually one of the most frequently dislocated injured joints in the body. Let's first begin by talking about components of the shoulder joint, beginning with the joint capsule. Now, the joint capsule is a fibrous sheath that encloses the structures of the shoulder joint. Here is a coronal section of the right shoulder joint, as we look at it straight on. The synovial membrane lines the inner part of the joint capsule and produces synovial fluid to reduce friction between the articular surfaces. That is why the shoulder joint is a synovial joint. The outer part of the capsule contains parts of the ligaments of the shoulder as well as muscles. Now, there are several ligaments that stabilizes the shoulders. There is the glenohumeral ligaments, which is composed of the superior, middle and inferior parts. And the glenohumeral ligament extend from the humerus to the glenoid fossa and acts to reinforce the joint capsule. The glenohumeral ligaments act to stabilize the anterior aspect of the joint. The coracoal humeral ligament extends from the base of the coracoid process to the greater tubercle of the humerus. This ligament supports the superior part of the joint capsule. Next, the transverse humeral ligament is found between the two tubercles of the humerus. The bicep's tendon runs through here. The coracoacromial ligament extends from the acromion and coracoid process of the scapula and forms an arch-like structure found over the shoulder joint. This is referred to as the coracoacromial arch. This ligament acts to resist superior dislocation of the head of the humerus. Next, let's talk about some important muscles that help stabilize the shoulder joint. And these are called the rotator cuffs. The rotator cuffs are composed of tendons of four muscles. The subscapularis is located anteriorly on the scapula. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor are located posteriorly on the scapula. The supraspinatus comes over the top here, as you can see. These muscles and tendons provide stability in the shoulder, attaching around the head of the humerus bone, encircling it like a cuff. The primary function of the rotator cuff is to position the humeral head in the glinoid, allowing the larger muscles to provide necessary power. Next, talking about the bursa. The shoulder joint has several bursae, which acts as a cushion between tendons and other joint structures. There are two main bursas found in the shoulder. Firstly, the subacromial bursa, which is located deep in the deltoid anachromion and superficial to the supraspinatus tendon and joint capsule. It acts to reduce friction under the deltoid, which enables free motion of the rotator cuff tendons. Secondly, you have the subscapular bursa, and this is found between the subscapularis tendon and the scapula. It acts to reduce friction on the tendon during movement of the shoulder joint. The blood supply to the shoulder joint is provided by the anterior and posterior circumflex humeral arteries. These are both branches of the auxiliary artery. There are also contributions from the suprascapular artery, which is a branch of the thyrocervical trunk. And this brings us to innervation. The sensory innervation to the aria is really by the auxiliary and suprascapular nerves. These nerves are also responsible for motor function of some of the muscles that we have learned. So here you can see the auxiliary nerve next to the auxiliary artery and the suprascapular nerve next to the suprascapular artery. And as you can see, these innervate some associated muscles we have already learned. Some clinical anatomy. Now, we will briefly talk about four clinical conditions that relate to the shoulder joint and brief examination findings. First of all, beginning with rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tears are the most common cause of shoulder pain. And this is because the tendons of the rotator cuff are often under a lot of strain as they function in stabilizing the glenohumeral joint. Rotator cuff tears occur when there is a complete separation of the tendinous fibers from their insertion onto the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The clinical features include pain around the shoulder that may radiate down the humerus. Pain can be worse with overhead activity, affecting day-to-day life and even sleep. Rotator cuff injuries will be discussed in more detail in a separate video. Next clinical anatomy is a condition called shoulder impingement. Shoulder impingement is a group of conditions that actually is where you have entrapment of the musculoskeletal soft tissue within the shoulder. And this most often presents in pain. It is an overuse injury with compression of the rotator cuffs between the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the acromion. Common presentation is usually where one develops pain that is gradual and may present for weeks or months around the shoulder area, specifically in the lateral deltoid, just distal to the tip of the acromion. Again, the pain is worse with overhead activity. Commonly, you can even see local swelling and tenderness in the front of the shoulder. On examination, when someone abducts their arm, between 90 and 120 degrees, they can develop pain. And this is called the painful arc. So it's positive for a painful arc, which can indicate a shoulder impingement. Because, again, the soft tissue structures here are impinged between the head of the humerus and the acromion. The next clinical condition is shoulder dislocation and shoulder instability. As said previously, the shoulder joint is one of the most frequently dislocated joints in the body. Dislocations at the shoulder are described by where the humeral head lies in relation to the glenoid fossa. 95% of shoulder dislocations are anterior dislocations. However, posterior and inferior dislocations can also occur, about 4% and 1% respectively. Superior displacement is prevented by the coracochromial arch. The most common type of dislocation is anterior dislocation, and it's a result of excessive extension and external rotation of the humerus. In anterior dislocation, the humeral head is forced anteriorly and inferiorly into the weakest point of the joint capsule. Now, if the joint capsule is torn, there is an increased risk of future dislocations. Posterior dislocation is uncommon, and it typically occurs in people who have seizures and electrocution injuries. There are some complications of shoulder dislocations. Now, the axillary nerve, as we have learned, is located very close around this area, and it can be damaged in a dislocation of the shoulder, or even during attempted reduction of the shoulder. And remember that the nerve runs in close proximity to the shoulder joint, and around the surgical neck of the humerus. If the axillary nerve is injured, paralysis of the deltoid occurs, as well as loss of sensation over the regimental badge area, which is the inferior portion of the deltoid. The last clinical condition to talk about is something called frozen shoulder, also known as adhesive capsulitis. And interestingly enough, this occurs in approximately 2-5% of people. It is characterized by initially painful and latter progressively restricted active and passive movements of the glenohumeral joint. The cause of frozen shoulder is believed to be inflammation in the shoulder capsule itself, which causes pain and capsular fibrosis and adhesion, and this leads to decreased range of motion in all planes. Pain is often gradual around the shoulder before any noticeable loss of motion. This is then followed by pain at rest, and then pain with movement in all directions. And so, on examination, there is limitation in movement, in both active and passive movements, especially in abduction of the shoulder, internal and external rotation. These are very important findings to differentiate between other shoulder problems. Risk factors for frozen shoulder include being female, increasing age, and having diabetes. So, in summary, today we talked about the clinical anatomy of the shoulder joint. We discussed the general anatomy of the shoulder joint, its vascular supply and innervation. We then discussed clinical cases relevant to the shoulder joint. These are rotator cuff tears, shoulder impingement, shoulder dislocation and instability, and frozen shoulder. In a separate video, we will focus more in depth of the rotator cuff muscles and specific rotator cuff injuries. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: The Ankle Joint - Clinical Anatomy, ankle sprain, Potts fracture and foot drop [eOT-nhuRFBM].txt ===

 Hello, in this video we're going to talk about the ankle joint. The ankle joint. The ankle joint or talocrural joint is a synovial joint located in the lower limb. It is formed by the bones of the leg, the tibia and fibula as well as the foot, the talus. Together the ends of the tibia and fibula form the tibia and fibula form the tibia and fibula. The talus is formed a bracket shaped socket covered in highline cartilage. This socket is known as the malleola mortis. The talus fits nicely into the mortis. The talus fits nicely into the mortis. The talus bone in your ankle is a unique shape with smooth cartilage covering over 60% of its surface. Unlike other bones, it doesn't connect to any muscle. The talus is broad anteriorly and narrow posteriorly. the tib t!.. t!... the tib. t!... the tib. tibia tibia known as your deltoid ligaments. So medial ligaments are equal to deltoid ligaments. The medial ligaments consist of four ligaments which fan out from the malleolus attaching to the talus, calcaneus and navicular bones. The primary action of the deltoid ligaments is to resist over-eversion of the foot, so the foot moving outwards, or the ankle moving outwards. The ligaments originating from the lateral malleolus include the anterior talofibula, posterior talofibula and the calcaneofibula ligaments. The main action of these ligaments is to resist over-eversion of the foot, so the foot or ankle moving inwards. Now let's talk about the muscles of the ankle and the movement. As mentioned, the ankle joint is a hinge-type joint, with movement permitted in one plane. This allows for the movement dorsiflexion and plantarflexion. Dorsiflexion is possible thanks to the muscles in the anterior compartment of the leg, the tibialis anterior, extensor digitorium longus and extensor hallucis longus. Plantarflexion is possible thanks to the muscles in the posterior compartment of the leg, namely gastrocnemus, soleus and posterior tibialis. The gastrocnemus and soleus also help form the Achilles tendon, which then attaches to the calcaneus. Eversion and inversion are produced at the other joints of the foot. The movement of eversion and inversion, so the ankle or the foot moving outwards and inwards, are actually produced not by the ankle joint, but another joint of the foot, the subtalar joint. The ankle joint is innervated by a few important nerves. Firstly, the deep perineal nerve and the superficial perineal nerve are branches of the common perineal nerve, as well as the tibial nerve, which is a branch of the sciatic nerve. These nerves supply motor function for all the movements of the ankle, including dorsiflexion, plantarflexion, eversion and inversion. The arterial supply to the ankle joint is derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial, posterior tibial and fibular arteries. The arteries palpated clinically are the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis. Let's talk about some clinical anatomy, beginning with the common ankle sprain. An ankle sprain refers to partial or complete tears in the ligaments of the ankle joint. It usually occurs via excessive inversion to a plantarflexed and weight-bearing foot. So really, the most common injury is when your foot or ankle points inwards. The lateral ligaments are most likely to be damaged for two main reasons. Firstly, the lateral ligaments are weaker than the medial ligaments. The lateral ligaments are also important in resisting inversion. The anterior talofibular ligaments is the lateral ligaments most at risk of irreversible damage. The next clinical anatomy is POTS fracture. A POTS fracture is a term used to describe a bimalleolar fracture, when your medial and your lateral malleoli get broken. Or a trimalleolar fracture, when your medial and lateral malleoli as well as the distal tibia get broken. The type of injury is produced by forced eversion of the foot, so your foot gets twisted outwards. It occurs in a series of stages. So firstly, you have forced eversion, which pulls on your medial ligaments, producing an avulsion fracture of the medial malleolus. The talus bone then moves laterally, breaking off the lateral malleolus. And then the tibia is then forced anteriorly, shearing off the distal and posterior parts against the talus. The final clinical anatomy is the foot drop, which is when you have injury to the perineal nerve, specifically the common perineal nerve and its branch, the deep perineal nerve. The common perineal nerve normally runs close to the fibula and supplies the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion, which is lifting the foot up, as well as foot eversion, turning the sole of the foot outward. If the common perineal nerve is injured, the person cannot dorsiflex the foot, and a foot drop occurs. As a result, the person will have a high stepping gait to help the foot clear off the ground when a person walks. In addition, the foot will slap down on the floor, because it can't be lowered in a controlled manner. In summary, the ankle joint is a synovial joint formed by the tibia and fibula, as well as the talus. The ankle joint is a hinged joint and performs dorsiflexion and plantar flexion. The ankle joint is supported by strong ligaments, the medial ligaments being more stronger than the lateral ligaments. The ligaments can be divided into the ligaments that join the distal fibula and tibia, and the ligaments that join the fibula and the tibia to the foot. An ankle sprain is a very common injury of the ankle joint, and is when there is partial or complete tears to the ligaments of the ankle joint. With key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key

=== FILE: Trichomoniasis ｜ Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis & Treatment ｜ STI Explained by Doctor [5nupGl0FK8Q].txt ===

 T, and CWD, which is a genitourinary infection caused by the protozoan parasite trichomonas vaginalis. It is the most common non-viral sexually transmitted infection and is more common in females than in men. Women with trichomonas usually present with smelly, yellow, greenish discharge, with pain during intercourse, some vaginal itching and urinary tract infection symptoms. Men may be asymptomatic, no symptoms, but can present with penile discharge, testicular pain, as well as urinary tract infection symptoms as well. Trichomoniasis can increase the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, pelvic inflammatory disease and HIV acquisition. Now, trichomonas vaginalis vaginalis, that causes trichomonas, is a flagellated protozoan. Flagellated means that the organism has one or more whip-like hairs that help them with movement. They are protozoan, given that they are a single-celled parasite. The parasite is a pear or round-shaped organism with four anterior flagella. They have undulating membrane that causes the characteristic motility, which is the characteristic motility seen on a slide through a microscope. Being a parasite, trichomonas vaginalis cannot survive without another organism, and the humans are its only natural host. What is the case of trichomonas vaginalis? Trichomonas vaginalis is transmitted during sexual intercourse, where it infects the squamous epithelium in the vagina and the urethra. The incubation period is between 5 to 28 days, and this is the period where it doesn't really have to cause any sort of symptom. Once inside the epithelial lumen, the organism replicates by binary fission, which is an asexual reproduction. Trichomonas vaginalis damages the urogenital epithelium with its surface proteins that can cause micro-ulcerations. During this infection, the vaginal pH, so the acidity may also increase, so the pH increases, so it becomes less acidic. The environment becomes less acidic. Coexistence of trichomonas vaginalis and bacterial vaginosis is common. Bacterial vaginosis is discussed in a completely separate video. Let's focus on trichomonas vaginalis. The specific virulent factors of trichomonas vaginalis and the body's immune response is not actually well understood. But we know that it causes this response in the vagina and the urethra, and causes the characteristic symptoms that we will discuss now. Some women, but majority of men, infected with trichomonas vaginalis are asymptomatic. They have no symptoms. Symptoms in women when they do develop include a foul-smelling frothy yellow-green pearl and discharge. They can have burning or itching around the genitals. Pain during urination, dysuria. And pain during intercourse, dyspyrunia. If they are examined, the cervix has a characteristic strawberry cervix appearance, where the cervix has an erythematous mucosa with petechiae. Symptoms in men include penile discharge, testicular pain, and pain during urination. And they can develop urinary frequency as well. So really, urinary tract infection-like symptoms. The risk factors for trichomonas vaginalis or trichomoniasis are really being female, because women are more likely to be infected for a start. Unprotected sex, so not using a condom for example. Contact with an infected partner, as well as having new or multiple sexual partners. Complications of trichomonas vaginalis include developing lesions on the vaginal wall, known as vaginitis emphysematosa, and increased risk of premature labour in pregnancy, which is having childbirth before 37 weeks. As well as having a low birth weight for a newborn, less than 2.5 kg. Infection with trichomonas vaginalis can also increase the risk of developing pelvic inflammatory disease, and having other sexual transmitted infections such as HIV. What is the differential diagnosis for trichomonas? The differential diagnosis for trichomonas is really anyone with a vaginal discharge, that is odorous for example, you got to think about other causes of vaginal discharge, including bacterial vaginosis, candidiasis, as well as other sexual transmitted infections, caused by other bacteria such as gonorrhea and chlamydia. In males, symptoms of urethral inflammation, so pain when peeing, could be caused by other sexual transmitted infections such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, as well as mycoplasma genitalia. What is the differential diagnosis for trichomonas? To investigate and to diagnose trichomonas, a nucleic acid amplification test is gold standard. Otherwise, microscopy of the vaginal discharge can show motile organisms when you look at it through a microscope, and you can also culture the vaginal discharge to see if there are any of these organisms that grow. The vaginal pH when inspected is usually more than 4.5 in a tracheomonas infection, so similar to that of bacterial vaginosis. Treatment of trachomonas include antibiotics, an oral tablet of metronidazole or tinidazole as a single dose is used. Current sexual partners should also be treated. People with known HIV infections are usually treated with a longer duration of antibiotics. People who are sexually active can take steps to protect themselves from trachomonasis, and these include using contraception, barrier contraception such as condoms. Routine testing for sexual transmitted infections including trachomonasis. So in summary, trachomonasis is a genitourinary infection with the flagellated protozoan trachomonas vaginalis. It is the most common non-viral sexually transmitted infection, and it affects women more than men. Women with trachomonasis usually present with smelly yellow-green discharge, and men could also present with similar, however are often asymptomatic. It is important to identify the organism and treat it. Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom Doom

=== FILE: Understanding Gout Treatment - Co-designed video by patients with Gout and Rheumatologists [rW8maRo6vEQ].txt ===

 Gout is a very common type of arthritis caused when urate crystals deposit in and around the joint triggering inflammation. The affected joint becomes red, hot, swollen and extremely painful. This is typically known as a gout flare or gout attack. One of the most common joints affected is the big toe. However, gout can attack any joint including the ankle, knee and wrist. Gout can limit people's activity and impact people's mood. But there is no shame in having gout. It is extremely common. And the good news is that you can easily treat and prevent gout attacks. Gout can be diagnosed by a doctor through history and physical examination. Another way is by analyzing the fluid in the joint during a gout attack. This is done by drawing up the fluid from the joint and then looking for uric crystals under a microscope. Gout can also be diagnosed using specialized imaging to look for these crystals. A gout attack is treated with anti-inflammatory medications, such as colchicine, ibuprofen, naproxen and prednisone. These medications help reduce inflammation and therefore reduce pain. You can think of it as water that is stopping a fire. Gout flares typically respond well to this treatment. If not, a corticosteroid injection can be used on the affected joint. This is like a fire extinguisher to help put out the fire. It is important to understand that the anti-inflammatory medications only treat the symptoms and do not treat the underlying cause of gout. The cause of gout is the high urate levels and the urate crystals in the joint. It is important to reduce urate levels to prevent future gout attacks. The most effective way to reduce urate or remove urate is by taking a daily urate lowering medication, such as allopurinol. But when you begin taking medicines to lower urate levels, it might actually make your gout worse by causing a flare. And this is because the urate levels suddenly change. And that is why when starting something like allopurinol, it is important to also take anti-inflammatory medications with it. This will reduce fire risk whilst waiting for allopurinol to have an effect. Other medications that help reduce urate levels, like allopurinol, include foboxystat and probenicid. Urate lowering medications must be taken every day and lifelong once started. It should not be stopped even if you have a gout attack. It might feel difficult at the start, but eventually you will have control of your gout. It's important to take charge of your gout, because recurrent gout attacks over time can cause permanent joint damage. People who have repeated gout flares and persistently high urate levels for many years can even stop forming urate crystal balls under the skin, along the joints and tendons. These urate crystal balls are called tofi. Preventing damage to joints and removing tofi can be done by taking urate lowering medications. Changing your lifestyle can also help. It is important to target the risk factors for gout, such as reducing alcohol consumption, changing your diet including eating foods less in sugar, and any food that may cause gout flares. However, studies have shown that diet alone is not effective in treating gout long term. It needs to be done with urate lowering medications. You can even measure how well your gout is controlled by measuring the blood urate levels. A target of less than 0.36 is ideal in most people with a history of gout. People with tofi need a stricter target of less than 0.30. So to summarize, gout is a form of arthritis that is caused by high levels of urate in the blood that then move to the joints as crystals triggering inflammation. Gout is very common and you can easily take control and prevent gout attacks. Gout is a form of arthritis that is caused by a lot of arthritis. Treatment for gout includes treating gout attacks with anti-inflammatory medication and then preventing gout attacks through lifestyle changes together with urate lowering medications such as allopurinol. Remember, at the start, urate lowering medications can make your gout worse, but it should never be stopped and must be taken lifelong. Please see your doctor if you have any questions and take charge of your gout today.

=== FILE: Understanding Inflammatory Myopathies - Dermatomyositis, Polymyositis, Antisynthetase syndrome [0ggz1X7LqZk].txt ===

 Maybellamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamatamat shoulders and the hips. The difference between the two is that dermatomyositis also have skin changes, hence derm as in dermatology, the skin. Let's recap the function and the anatomy of the muscle. Muscle is a specialized tissue found in animals, designed to generate force and motion. If we were to pull the muscle itself, it's composed of different structures, but essentially the muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells called muscle fibers, which are elongated and designed to contract in response to stimulation. These fibers are made up of smaller units called myofibrils, which in turn are composed of even smaller structures called sarcomeres. The sarcomere is the functional unit of the muscle fibers and is responsible for muscle contraction. Here we are looking at normal muscle tissue and we can find blood vessels supplying it. When you have inflammation of the muscle tissue, this is termed myositis. And again, there are many causes of inflamed muscle tissue. There could be infective causes, there could be traumatic causes, but we are mainly focusing on autoimmune causes, which are broadly referred to as inflammatory myopathies. Now typically, inflammatory myopathies present with proximal muscle weakness, affecting the quadriceps and shoulders and biceps. Historically, dermatomyositis and polymyositis were the primary types of inflammatory myopathies. However, six distinct types have now been identified. Dermatomyositis, polymyositis, antisynthetase syndrome, overlap myositis, immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy and inclusion body myositis. Each of these have their own unique features. Common among these conditions is that you get an elevated creatinine kinase, a muscle enzyme released into the bloodstream during muscle inflammation. But you also get other elevated enzymes, which are your AST and ALT, which are typically known as your liver enzymes, but these guys can also be found in muscles. Other diagnostic tests include an MRI, MRI of the muscle specifically, to help detect inflammation, which will show as muscle edema. The scans from the MRI can be used to help perform a muscle biopsy, which is the gold standard for diagnosing and also differentiating between the different types. The presence of autoantibodies in the blood is another key diagnostic marker and helps support the diagnosis and differentiate between the different inflammatory myositis. Let us now talk about the six different types of inflammatory myopathies. Again, each of them present with proximal muscle weakness, typically involving the shoulders and the thighs. However, each of them have their own unique features. The muscle weakness in itself usually has a history of difficulty getting up the chair without support and climbing up stairs. Again you have the historical classification of polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Let us focus on dermatomyositis, which presents with proximal muscle weakness with skin changes. There are distinct rashes, which include heliotrope rash, which is purple or red rash on the eyelids, trotrans papules, red patches over the knuckles, elbows and knees, photosensitive rash, which include the shoal sign over the back and V sign over the chest, as well as nail changes, which include redness, erythema. People with dermatomyositis typically have positive antibodies, and there are many. Most important ones to remember are TIFF1-gamma and NXP2, which are dermatomyositis specific antibodies associated with malignancy. Polymyositis is the other side of the spectrum, again presenting with proximal, symmetrical muscle weakness involving the shoulders, hips, thighs and even neck. But importantly, there is no rash. Patients are often seronegative, meaning that they don't have any muscle-associated antibody. Now going to the right side of this image, where the skin rash is, we can identify two other types of autoimmune inflammatory myopathies. The first being antisynthetase syndrome, which is a unique syndrome in that they present with a number of things. Proximal muscle weakness, they can have inflammatory arthritis, Raynaud's phenomenon, which is discoloration of the fingers, especially during cold weather, something called mechanics hand, which are roughening of the essentially palmar aspect of the hand, and interstitial lung disease. Antisynthetase syndrome can also have features of dermatomyositis within it. There are specific antisynthetase syndrome antibodies. JO1 is the most common. The other type of inflammatory myopathy that I am putting on the right side here is overlap myositis, because it is also associated with skin changes, such as those seen in dermatomyositis. But people who have overlap myositis usually have an underlying autoimmune disease, such as Srogan's, Lupus, or Scleroderma, with again unique antibodies, such as PM-SCL, RO52, ANTI-Q, and U1-RMP. The next type of inflammatory myositis is immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, which I put on the left side here, because it is not associated with the rash. It again presents with proximal muscle weakness, and hamstring involvement is particularly affected. It is common in females, and is very much associated with statin use, a lipid-lowering agent, which is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. Interestingly enough, patients with immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy may have, associated with statin use, developed HMG-CoA reductase autoantibodies. The last type of inflammatory myositis is inclusion body myositis. In this group, there is no dermatomyositis, there is no rash, but interestingly, people have often sudden onset disease, with not only proximal muscle weakness, but distal muscle weakness, particularly in the finger flexors, which is not as common in other types. Very frequently, inclusion body myositis is associated with dysphagia, difficulty swallowing. Inclusion body myositis is more common in men, those above 50. There is usually normal or slightly elevated creatinine kinase. Treatment of all these inflammatory myopathies include immunosuppression in the form of corticosteroids, followed by intravenous immunoglobulins, or other immunosuppressions. Interestingly, inclusion body myositis in particular is a type that does not respond to immunosuppression. Another final important point is that muscles also help with breathing and swallowing. So in these inflammatory myositis conditions, it can also cause poor respiratory effort, difficulty breathing, and dysphagia, difficulty swallowing. So in summary, inflammatory myositis is a group of autoimmune conditions, whereby the muscles become inflamed. This leads to a rise in creatinine kinase and AST and ALT. Inflammatory myositis now can be divided into six phenotypes. Dermatomyositis, polymyositis, antisynthetase syndrome, overlap myositis, necrotizing autoimmune myopathy, and inclusion body myositis. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Vasculitis Overview - types and classification [YwW_Wwkhxnk].txt ===

 Inflammlung, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood In secondary vasculitis. Primary vasculitis essentially is its own disease entity or condition, whereas secondary vasculitis is secondary to something else, such as an autoimmune disease, medication, or infection. Let's focus on some causes of primary vasculitis. We can categorize primary vasculitis based on the size and the type of blood vessel that is affected. Here is a drawing of different sizes of the arteries in red which become smaller arterioles and then capillaries and then veins in blue at the bottom. Primary vasculitis include those that affect large arteries. These are called large vessel vasculitis, medium sized arteries, your medium vessel vasculitis, and then you have anchor associated small vessel vasculitis which affect small blood vessels including arterioles, capillaries, and small veins. The other type of small vessel vasculitis is immune complex associated small vessel vasculitis, as well as anti-GBM syndrome which specifically targets the capillaries. Let's take a look at each of these in a bit more detail. Now the large vessel vasculitis typically affect large arteries such as the aorta and its branches. A type of large vessel vasculitis is giant cell arthritis also known as temporal arthritis which typically affect the cranial blood vessels including the temporal arteries which can lead to blindness and also it can cause jaw claudication infection in worst case scenario. While giant cell arthritis typically affect older people, there is one that affects younger people called takayasu arthritis, the other type of large vessel vasculitis. It causes inflammation of large arteries, typically branches of the aorta causing absent or reduced peripheral pulses such as the radial pulse. And interestingly there are no antibodies that are found in these two types of large vessel vasculitis. Then you have the medium vessel vasculitis and there are two types here. These are Kawasaki's disease which affect children. Kawasaki disease is characterized by fever greater than 5 days, bilateral conjunctival congestion, lip and oral changes such as strawberry tongue, polymorphous rash, changes in the peripheral extremities, and cervical lymphadenopathy. Coronary artery aneurysm and dilatation are complications in Kawasaki disease. The other medium vessel vasculitis is polyarthritis nodosa which can be extremely dangerous. It is divided into systemic or only cutaneous, affecting the skin. It causes inflammation of the medium arteries and never capillaries or the veins. It is associated with hepatitis B. Then you have the small vessel vasculitis including ANCA which stands for Anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody. It is a rare systemic disease which comprises of microscopic polyangitis MPA, e-cinophilic granulomatosis with polyangitis EGPA and granulomatosis with polyangitis GPA. They have few or no immune deposition and predominantly affect small vessels such as the capillaries, venules and arterioles. They are characterized by presence of ANCA antibodies which are MPO or PR3 antibodies. The other type of small vessel vasculitis is immune complex vasculitis where you have immune complexes that deposit in the vessel wall and this includes IgA vasculitis also known as Henoch-Chonlon purpura. Hypo complementemic urticarial vasculitis which is basically urticaria and you also get vasculitis and low complements. Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis which is associated with hepatitis C virus. And finally anti-GBM which I have drawn separately here because this condition is unique. Firstly there are antibodies called anti-GBM which target glomerular basement membrane proteins but it can also target the lungs. Without prompt diagnosis and treatment the patients with anti-GBM syndrome or disease can develop lung hemorrhage, kidney failure and even death. There is another type of vasculitis called variable vessel vasculitis under primary vasculitis and there are two types of variable vessel vasculitis these are Bichette's disease and Cogan's syndrome which are variable vessel vasculitis because they target or affect either small vessels or medium sized vessels. Bichette's disease is an auto-inflammatory condition with a clinical triad of oral ulcers, genital ulcers and uveitis. Cogan's syndrome is a rare auto-inflammatory systemic disease which is characterized also by a triad of inflammatory eye disease, vestibular auditory dysfunction and vasculitis. Now finally the other primary vasculitis that I should mention and not as exciting as what we just talked about include single organ specific vasculitis and this includes isolated erotitis which is inflammation of the largest artery in the body, the aorta, primary central nervous system vasculitis and cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis which is essentially inflammation of the small blood vessels in the skin and this condition can be its own entity or associated also with other things such as infections, medications. Now vasculitis can lead to many different complications depending on the blood vessel affected and also the organ affected but it's important to know that inflammation of the blood vessel causes damage to the blood vessel and can lead to thrombosis which is clot formation, it can lead to stenosis, narrowing of the blood vessel and even occlusion so blockage of the blood vessel and finally when you get inflammation and damage to the blood vessel it can make it slightly elastic and so dilate causing what's called an aneurysm. So we talked about briefly the different types of primary vasculitis. Let's talk now about secondary vasculitis which again is a type of vasculitis that occurs secondary to something else. They are grouped into two broad categories, firstly vasculitis associated with another autoimmune disease, this includes lupus, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis or sarcoidosis. Then you have vasculitis associated with other conditions or even medications and this includes hepatitis blast and cruise infections, syphilis, drug-induced vasculitis is very common including antibiotics. There is also drug induced or associated anchor vasculitis whereby taking a drug can actually cause anchor antibodies to be formed thus leading to a small vessel vasculitis that is anchor. Finally there's also cancer associated vasculitis. So in summary in this video we revised the different types of vasculitis. Firstly we divided vasculitis into primary or secondary then we focused on primary vasculitis and further categorized it based on the size of the blood vessel affected. Again typically arteries. These include large vessel vasculitis, medium vessel vasculitis and small vessel vasculitis. There's also variable vessel vasculitis and single organ vasculitis. Thank you for watching I hope you enjoyed this video. In the video sel

=== FILE: What Is Appendicitis？ Symptoms, Causes & Treatment Explained [wnLyjF2UWCY].txt ===

 акку folks, folks, folks, folks, folks, folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks crucial to avoid complications such as perforation and sepsis. Let's revise some anatomy. The appendix is a narrow, blind-ended tube arising from the posturomedial wall of the cecum, approximately 2-3 cm below the ileocecal valve. It averages 8-10 cm in length and is suspended by the meso-appendix, which contains the appendiceal artery, a branch of the ileocolic artery from the superior mesenteric artery. Its variable position can include retrosecal, pelvic, subsecal, pre-ileal, or post-ileal, can influence the clinical presentation and where the pain is located. So, the clinical presentation, the classic symptoms of appendicitis begin with vague peri-umbilical pain that then localizes to the right lower quadrant over 12-24 hours. This may be accompanied by anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fever, constipation, or diarrhea. Examination may reveal rebound tenderness, guarding, and localized peritonism. Rebound tenderness is a sign that refers to pain or discomfort felt upon the release of pressure from the abdomen where you are palpating or feeling. Signs such as the rovsings, psoas, or obturator signs may be present in appendicitis, depending on the location of the appendix. Children may present differently, with non-specific abdominal pain, irritability, fever, or gastrointestinal symptoms such as vomiting or diarrhea. Diagnosis in this group can be delayed due to atypical features and limited communication. Elderly and immunosuppressed patients may present with subtil signs and are more prone to complications. So why does appendicitis occur? Well, the thought is that there's obstruction of the appendiceal lumen. And this can be due to fecal lithe, lymphoid hyperplasia, so the lymph glands here are becoming bigger, causing an obstruction of that lumen, the appendiceal lumen, or rarely a cancer, neoplasm. And essentially an obstruction of that lumen, or that tunnel, leads to increased intraluminal pressure, which then can lead to, you know, more bacteria proliferating, because we normally have bacteria around this area. It can lead to ischemia, lack of blood supply, and eventually transmural inflammation. If untreated, this whole process of inflammation and ischemia can result in perforation, abscess formation due to the bacterial overgrowth, or obviously with perforation, peritonism, or peritonitis. The risk factors for developing appendicitis includes adolescents and young adults, male sex, but again it occurs in both women and men, low fiber diet, family history of appendicitis, and recent vile gastrointestinal infections. In terms of investigations, what is typically seen is an elevated neutrophilic count, or so neutrophilia. CRP is often elevated because of the inflammatory process. Urinalysis and beta-HDG are important to rule out other differentials, such as UTI or pregnancy. Imaging. Ultrasound is typically first-line investigation of imaging in children and in pregnancy. CT abdomen has high diagnostic accuracy. MRI is obviously another option for pregnancy if CT scans are contraindicated or the diagnosis is uncertain. But typically the diagnosis is a clinical one, and a surgical review is important. Complication of appendicitis. We have already mentioned it earlier, but includes perforation of the appendix, and this can then lead to peritonitis or inflammation of the peritoneum that lines the abdominal cavity. Appendicial abscess or phlegmon can occur, because remember there is the bacterial perforation and a small microperforation can cause an abscess, and if perforated completely can lead to sepsis. Small bowel obstruction can occur. Stump appendicitis is a rare surgical recurrence of inflammation of the appendix that has been cut out. Of course, in rare circumstances, when you have sepsis, which is where the bacteria enters the bloodstream, this bacteria can then travel to the liver, resulting in hepatic abscess or portal pyemia. Management of appendicitis. In uncomplicated cases, laparoscopic appendectomy is first line, and typically a single pre-op antibiotic dose is given. In complicated cases, such as when you have an abscess or an infection, IV antibiotics is very important. Image-guided drainage can be a possibility, but typically there is an interval appendectomy after six weeks. So in summary, appendicitis is a time-sensitive diagnosis requiring clinical vigilance, particularly in atypical presentation. Imaging supports diagnosis, especially in uncertain cases, but typically it's a clinical diagnosis, and early surgical intervention reduces the risk of perforation and long-term complications. folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks folks

=== FILE: What is Dupuytren's Contracture⧸ [I7CmZZ89QNk].txt ===

 Dupuptrulline, Dupupertine, Dupupertine's contracture is a progressive hand disorder characterized by gradual thickening and tightening of fibrous tissue in the palm leading to the bending of one or more fingers towards the palm, restricting their full extension. This condition predominantly is the the ring and little finger and can impair hand function, and can impair hand function, making everyday tasks challenging. The exact cause of Dupupertine's contracture remain unclear, though it is believed to involve a combination of genetic and environmental factors. The condition is more common in individuals of Northern European descent and tends to run in families, suggesting a hereditary component. Environmental factors such as alcohol use, smoking, and diabetes have also been associated with an increased risk of developing this condition. The condition is also associated with an increased risk of developing this condition. Dupupertine's contracture results from abnormal proliferation of myofibroblasts. If we look at a normal palm, you can see that it is made up of epithelial cells, fat, and connective tissue. In Dupupertine's contracture, you get abnormal proliferation of myofibroblasts in the palma fascia, the fibrous layer beneath the skin of the palm. These cells then produce a lot of collagen and other extracellular matrix components, leading to the formation of nodules and cords that can gradually contract and pull the finger towards the palm, creating that flexion deformity. Let's look at the clinical features. The onset of Dupupertine's contracture is typically gradual, starting with development of nodules in the palm, which may or may not be painful. As the condition progresses over time, these nodules can extend to form thick, fibrous cords extending into the fingers. The contracture of these cords leads to the characteristic flexion deformity of the affected fingers. Patients often report difficulty in performing tasks that require a flat hand, such as putting on gloves or shaking hands. In advanced cases, the contracture can significantly impair hand function. There are other differential diagnoses to consider in someone who has something like Dupupertine's contracture. This includes what's called a trigger finger. Trigger finger, in both these conditions, they involve the hand and can restrict finger movement. However, in trigger finger, it's characterized by locking or catching of a finger in a bent position, due to inflammation of the flexor tendon. The ganglion cyst is another differential, and arises near tendons or joints of the wrist or hands. It really potentially causes a lump-like structure, similar to the nodules of Dupupertine's contracture. However, these lumps are cysts and are fluid-filled, whereas Dupupertine's contracture is a lump-like structure. The nodules are solid fibrous tissue. Another differential is diabetic karyoarthropathy. It's seen in patients with long-standing diabetes, and in this condition, it causes stiffness and thickening of the skin of the hand. The key distinguishing feature is the prayer sign, indicating that the person is a muscle of the skin. The other differential is diabetic karyoarthropathy. It's seen in patients with long-standing diabetes, and in this condition, it causes stiffness and thickening of the skin of the hands. The key distinguishing feature is the prayer sign, indicating that the person is unable to oppose the palms and fingers, due to the skin and soft tissue being stiff. It's really the whole hand. The key distinguishing feature is the problem. Volkman's contracture is a deformity caused by ischemia in the forearm muscles, leading to contractures. Unlike Dupuertine's, Volkman's contracture is typically the result of acute injury, sudden injury, and affects the forearm muscles, leading to a claw-like deformity of the hand. Finally, another differential is scleroderma. Scleroderma is basically when you have skin thickening and tightening across various parts of the body, including the hands, which might mimic Dupuertines. But really, in scleroderma, it's all the fingers and the hands that become tight. As well, you can get tightening elsewhere around the body, such as legs, feet, as well as organs, internal organs. The diagnosis of Dupuertine's contracture is primarily clinical, based on the characteristic appearance and symptoms. The tabletop test is where the patient is unable to lay their hands flat on the table. It can be a useful diagnostic tool. Imaging studies are not typically required, but may be used to assess the extent of the disease in severe cases. Remember, the most common fingers affected are really the ring finger and the little finger. The treatment of Dupuertine's contracture is aimed at improving hand function and may include observation, especially in mild cases, when the deformity has not much impact on hand function. Then there is something called needle aponeurotomy, a minimally invasive procedure, where a needle is used to puncture and break the fibrous cords that have formed, allowing for improved finger extension. This procedure can be performed in an outpatient setting with local anesthesia. Then there is something called collagenase injection. In this procedure, collagenase clostridium histolyticum is injected into the fibrous cord. This causes enzymatic breakdown of the collagen, allowing the cord to be disrupted and the finger to straighten. This method may require manipulation of the finger by the healthcare provider the day following the injection to achieve the desired effect. Finally, surgery. And this is particularly reserved for severe cases or recurrent cases. Surgical options include fasciotomy, where the fibrous tissue is surgically removed, or in very severe cases, dermofasciotomy, which involves the removal of both the affected skin and the underlying fibrous tissue, sometimes requiring skin grafting. The progression of Dupagus contracture can vary significantly among individuals. Some may experience only mild symptoms with little progression over time, while others may develop severe contracture requiring surgical intervention. Complications of Dupagus contracture are primarily related to loss of hand function and the potential for recurrence after treatment. In summary, Dupagus contracture is a condition that leads to a progressive hand deformity and functional impairment through the contracture of the palmar fascia. While the exact cause is not fully understood, a combination of genetic predisposition and environmental factors are believed to play a role. Treatment options vary, from observation and minimally invasive procedures, to surgery, depending on the severity of the condition and its impact on the person's quality of life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: What is Foot Drop？ Causes, Symptoms & Treatment Explained [KMu0kJwCtS4].txt ===

 In this video, we're going to talk about foot drop. A foot drop is characterized by the inability to lift the front part of the foot. This movement is called dorsiflexion. It causes the affected foot to drag or slap against the ground while walking. This condition can significantly affect a person's mobility and overall quality. quality of life. Foot drop is a result of a problem with the common perineal nerve or the fibular nerve. The nerve that innervates the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion. Let's learn a bit about the anatomy. Talking about the sciatic nerve which then eventually divides and becomes the common perineal nerve. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve of the lower limb. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve of the lower limb. It is a thick, flat band approximately 2 cm wide, approximately 2 cm wide, the largest nerve in the body. The sciatic nerve is derived from the lumbocacal plexus roots, L4 to S3. The sciatic nerve is composed of two main nerve bundles, the common perineal nerve and the tibial nerve. The sciatic nerve leaves the pelvis and enters the gluteal region via the greater sciatic foramen. It emerges inferiorly to the piriformis muscle and then descends in an infralateral direction. It then enters the posterior thigh, so the back, by passing deep to the long head of the biceps femoris. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve in the lower limb and then it splits into two smaller nerves just above the back of the knee. These two nerves are called the tibial nerve and the common perineal nerve. The tibial nerve helps control the muscles of the calf, which are important for plantar flexion, so standing on your tiptoes, as well as turning the ankle or foot inwards. This is termed ankle inversion. The common perineal nerve, on the other hand, travels around the outer part of the leg, at the top of the fibula. This nerve wraps around the fibula and then descends down, dividing into two smaller nerves. The superficial perineal nerve and the deep perineal nerve. The superficial perineal nerve supplies the muscle that turn your foot outward, ankle eversion, and also provides sensation to the front of your lower leg, as well as the top of your foot. The deep perineal nerve controls the muscles that lift your toes and foot up. These are the tibialis anterior, extensor digitorium longus, extensor hallucis longus, and perineus tertius. The deep perineal nerve provides sensation to the area between the big toe and the one next to it. The deep perineal nerve can be isolated to the lumbar 5 nerve root. Now, if you injure the common perineal nerve, you then affect its two branches, the superficial and deep perineal nerve. It will cause difficulty in lifting the foot up and also turning the foot outward. Eversion. This can lead to a specific way of walking, where you lift your foot higher than normal, and it can also increase the risk of falls. All of this is what is termed a foot drop. So what are the causes of a foot drop? Well, you can think about it globally, looking at lesions at each of the sites where the nerve comes from and travels to. So, for example, if you have issues or lesions in the L5 nerve root, this can cause a foot drop. Lesions in the lumbosacral plexus. Lesion in the sciatic nerve. Specifically, lesions in the common perineal nerve, or the deep perineal nerve, and superficial perineal nerve. We will first talk about lesions that occur in the common perineal nerve, which then will obviously affect both the superficial and deep perineal nerve. A major cause of common perineal nerve injury is through compression. So compression of the actual common perineal nerve at the level of the fibular head. And this is due to the presence of a bony prominence at the fibular head, as well as a superficial positioning of the nerve itself at that level. Compartment syndrome affecting the leg, either due to trauma or related ischemia, can lead to perineal nerve ischemia with subsequent foot drop. Trauma associated from orthopedic injuries such as knee dislocation, severe ankle inversion, or some other fractures can also directly cause injury to the common perineal nerve. Iatrogenic causes from surgical procedures or protracted positioning and anesthesia. So for example, women in a lithotomy position giving birth, causes compression against the fibular head and the actual common perineal nerve, as well as orthopedic procedures can possibly disrupt or injure the common perineal nerve. There are many neurological disorders or causes of common perineal nerve injury. For example, a stroke that affects the motor pathway that supplies the actual muscles of the tibialis anterior or the lateral aspect of the tibia. So a stroke that affects the motor pathway responsible for the nerve fibers that will eventually become the common perineal nerve. Multiple sclerosis, demyelinating lesions of the central nervous system, can affect also the motor pathway. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. ALS, or motor neuron disease, causes issues with the anterior horn of the spinal cord and thus the motor pathway. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, a hereditary disorder characterized by motor sensory polyneuropathy. So this is a lower motor neuron injury, as well as motor neuritis multiplex, a vasculitis of the small vessels that supplies the actual common perineal nerve. Guillain-Barre syndrome, as well as diabetes mellitus, or other neurological disorders. Injury at the level of the perineal nerve will only cause a foot drop, so loss of dorsiflexion, as well as ankle eversion if the superficial perineal nerve is involved. The nerve upstream, so the sciatic nerve itself, is otherwise okay, including the tibial nerve, the nerve that supplies the calf muscles. But it's also important to consider lesions upstream, that we also mentioned earlier, such as a L5 reticulopathy, most commonly due to an L4-L5 disc protrusion, prolapse or herniation. This will result in foot drop, as well as neuropathic pain, starting in the lumbar region and radiating down through the posterior thigh to the big toe. Clinical examination has a straight positive leg raise test. Also, lumbosacral plexopathy and any lesion along the sciatic nerve can lead to a foot drop. And so investigations to order for a person that comes to you with a new foot drop include x-ray and CT scan, first of all, around the knee or even the pelvis, really looking for any fractures, masses, arthritis or tumors that could be compressing anywhere along the nerve root, an MRI scan along the nerve pathway to see if there's any features of nerve compression. An electromyogram and nerve conduction studies can also be helpful in localizing where the lesion is, whether it is the common perineal nerve or below, or the sciatic nerve being involved. Treatment for a foot drop, really importantly, is physical therapy, the use of orthosis as well as splinting, pain management if there's a radicular component to it. Surgery can also be performed where early on a nerve repair can be done or even a nerve transfer where a functional but less important nerve is transferred to a distal part of the affected nerve. So in summary, a foot drop is characterized by the inability of the front part of the foot to move up. This movement is called dorsiflexion. It causes the affected foot to drag or slap against the ground while walking. A foot drop is a result of a problem with a common perineal nerve, the nerve that innervates the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion. So pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:56.993983Z ===
