 Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man Man The inner ankle, also known as the medial ankle, have a number of important structures. These are the medial malleolus, which is the distal part of the tibia on the medial side, the sustenaculum tally, the medial ligaments, also known as the deltoid ligaments, the tibialis posterior tendon, the flexor hallusis longus tendon, the navicular tubercle, and the mid-tarsal joint. Pain in the inner ankle can be caused by problems in any one of these areas. Let's take a look at some causes of medial ankle pain, beginning with ligament injuries on the medial aspect, which is one of the most common causes of medial ankle pain. The medial or deltoid ligament is injured, usually as a result of eversion injury. The medial ligament is usually very strong, much stronger than the lateral ligaments, and are more often accompanied by additional injuries such as a fracture, for example the medial malleolus, the distal fibula, as well as the taladome. Medial malleolus fracture is another cause of medial ankle pain. It is very uncommon to happen by itself. It usually occurs as a bimalleola or trimalleola fracture. Bimalleola fracture means that both the medial and the lateral malleola are fractured. Trimalleola means both the lateral and medial malleola are fractured, but also the posterior aspect of the tibia as well. The next cause of medial ankle pain is tibialis posterior tendinopathy, which is essentially irritation of the tibialis posterior tendon. This tendon comes around the medial malleolus before attaching to the navicular tuberosity. This tendon and muscle function is to cause foot inversion as well as plantar flexion as well. Now, people with tendinopathy of the tibialis posterior present with medial ankle pain, most often over the retinaculum posterior inferior to the medial malleolus, although the patient may also complain of medial mid-foot pain at the site of insertion of the tendon. The pain is exacerbated by resisted inversion and passive eversion. When asked to do a single heel raise, it will demonstrate a lack of hind foot supination, because normally this is what the tendon will do. It will perform supination or inversion, and so there will be lack of this because the tendon is not working. It may be associated also with excessive pronation as a result, so becoming more flat-footed. Rupture of the tibialis posterior presents with posteromedial tibial pain extending around the medial malleolus to the navicular tubercle, where the tendon attaches. Another cause of medial ankle pain is issues with the flexorhalusis longus tendon, causing tendinopathy. Here there is irritation of the flexorhalusis longus tendon. The flexorhalusis longus arises from the distal fibula and inserts at the distal phalanx of the great toe. It causes the great toe to flex. Flexorhalusis tendinopathy occur as a result of impingement of the flexorhalusis longus tendon, with resultant tendonitis and even tendon rupture along the posterior ankle joint. This causes pain on plantar flexion. The pain is exacerbated by resisted flexion of the first toe, with pain on passive extension of the first toe as well. Flexorhalusis longus tendon can be associated with posterior impingement syndrome, triggering of the first toe in severe cases, and is often a result of secondary overuse, specifically seen in people who perform ballet due to extreme plantar flexion. Tarsal tunnel syndrome is essentially entrapment neuropathy of the posterior tibial nerve as the nerve becomes trapped in the fibroosseous tarsal tunnel around the medial malleolus. This compression may be a result of trauma, an inversion injury, overuse, excessive pronation, footwear or chronic flexor tenosynovitis. In most patients, the posterior tibial nerve divides into three terminal branches, the medial plantar nerve, lateral plantar nerve and the medial calcaneal nerve within the tarsal tunnel. Tarsal tunnel entrapment itself can be divided into proximal syndromes or distal syndromes. Tarsal syndromes is essentially compression of the posterior tibial nerve, whereas a distal tarsal tunnel syndrome implies compression of one or more of the terminal branches I mentioned, including the medial or the lateral plantar nerves. Tarsal tunnel syndrome In tarsal tunnel syndrome, on examination, there is local tenderness on palpation to that area. There is also a positive tinnal sign, meaning that if you tap along that area, it will cause essentially firing of the nerves, and so you get this tingling or pain sensation where the nerve runs through in the foot. Medial plantar nerve entrapment, also known as jogger's foot, is where the medial plantar nerve, which is a branch of the posterior tibial nerve, becomes entrapped or compressed. This is actually a type of distal tarsal tunnel syndrome, because remember, the medial plantar nerve is a branch of the posterior tibial nerve. The medial plantar nerve may be compressed between the abductor holocis fascia and its origin at the navicular and calcaneus, or as it passes through the medial intermuscular septum. There is pain over the calcaneum, and this pain may radiate to the arch of the foot. Running aggravates the symptoms, and it may be associated with pronation. Recently acquired orthotics can provoke symptoms as well. Again, examination, when you press around where the medial plantar nerve is, it can cause local tenderness, and if you tap around there, it can elicit a positive tinnous sign, similar to what you see in carpal tunnel syndrome when you perform the tinnous test. So, in summary, medial ankle pain is typically due to poor biomechanics of the foot. There are specific causes of medial ankle pain, and these are medial ligament injuries, the deltoid ligaments, medial malleolar fractures, tendinopathy of the tibialis posterior, or the flexohalysis longus, tarsal tunnel syndrome, which can be both proximal or distal, distal, one of them being joggers foot, which is medial plantar nerve entrapment. Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching.