 Medial elbow, also known as golfer's elbow, also known as golfer's elbow, involves tendinosis at the common origin of the flexor, pronator muscle groups, typically caused by repetitive flexion and pronation of the wrist. It is frequently observed in athletes involved in throwing sports, racket sports, racquet sports, and sports, park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park epicondyle. The epicondyle are bony prominences easily palpated on the medial and lateral sides of the distal humerus, just proximal to the elbow joint. The lateral humoral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand extensors. So this is where the extensors of the hands originate, whereas the medial humoral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand flexors. So these are where the hand flexors originate, the medial epicondyle. So medial elbow tendinopathy is essentially irritation or tendinosis of the medial epicondyle where the tendons insert. It is diagnosed clinically by the following findings. Localized tendinous over the medial epicondyle and proximal wrist flexor muscle mass. Pain with resisted wrist flexion and pronation with the elbow in full extension. Pain with passive wrist extension with the elbow in full extension. Medial elbow tendinopathy So what's the difference between medial and lateral elbow tendinopathy? Well, as the name suggests, medial elbow tendinopathy or golfer's elbow affects the inner elbow and is associated with the flexor pronator muscle group, leading to pain exacerbated by movements such as wrist flexion and pronation. Conversely, lateral or outer elbow tendinopathy, known as tennis elbow, impacts the outer elbow and involves the extensor muscles, particularly the extensor capi radialis brevis. Pain in lateral elbow tendinopathy typically worsens with wrist extension and supination movements. Investigations for medial elbow tendinopathy Well, imaging tests such as x-rays, ultrasounds and MRIs are not routinely performed but can be useful. Typically, x-rays do not show abnormalities, whereas ultrasound might reveal decreased echogenicity, inhomogeneity and thickening of the tendons, sometimes accompanied by a local fluid collection. MRIs can show increased signal intensity near the medial epicondyle. Treatment of medial elbow tendinopathy generally begins with non-operative methods, of course, including rest, application of ice, if it's acute, 10 to 20 minutes every few hours during acute stages, compression later on, and the use of topical, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as Voltaren gel, or oral anti-inflammatory drugs. If these conservative approaches fail, a treatment plan might include an injection of corticosteroid. It's crucial to limit the amount of injections given for tendinopathy, as there could be associated tendon damage and even complications to the ulnar nerve, which runs quite close to this area. If symptoms persist despite adequate conservative treatment, surgical intervention may be considered. Surgical treatment might involve releasing the flexor or pronator origin, removing granulation tissue, decorticating the medial epicondylar bone, and reconstructing the medial muscle tendinopathy. So in summary, we looked at medial elbow tendinopathy, also known as golfer's elbow, which involves tendinosis at the common origin of the flexor pronator muscle group. It's typically seen in people who do repetitive flexor and pronation of the wrist such as in golf or any throwing sports. Treatment includes conservative, corticosteroid injection, and very rarely surgery. So in summary, thank you for watching. So please park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park park