In this video, we're going to look at mital regurgitation. This is an overview, an introduction. Mitro regurgitation is where there is leakage of blood backward through the mital valve each time the left ventricle contracts. Patients are often gravely ill with significant hemodynamic instability. This is acute mital regurgent medical treatment. All the valves of the heart can be heard most prominently in certain areas across our thorax. The aotic valve is best heard in the right second intercostal space paristernal. The pulmonary valve best heard on the second intercostal space on the left paristernal. The tricuspid valve left fourth intercostal space paristernal. and the mital valve left fifth intercostal space midclavicular. Looking at a normal heart we can see it has four valves. The pulmonary valve is made up of three leaflets. The tricuspid valve three leaflets and the aotic three leaflets as well. The mitro valve has two leaflets. Out of all the valves, the mitral is normally the only valve with two leaflets and that is why it is called a bicuspit valve. During the cardiac cycle, the mital valve and tricuspid valve open together. This is to allow the ventricles to fill with blood prior to cy. Here is a normal mital valve open and closed. In mital regurgitation, the mitro valve is not strong and this is due to a number of reasons. Because of this, the mitro valve does not open and close properly. During diastily, the heart with mital regurgitation is able to fill the ventricles with blood. During cy however the mital valve cannot close properly and as a result blood is also ejected back to the left atria where it should not go. This results in some complications. In mital regurgitation blood can travel back towards the pulmonary system resulting in pulmonary edema. we have increased in pulmonary vascular pressure which can lead to congestive heart failure and core pulmonal. Another common complication with mital regurgitation is the development of atrial fibrillation. Mitro regurgitation can be acute or chronic. Acute mitral regurgitation tends to be more aggressive because of the sudden onset. Some signs and symptoms of acute mital regurgitation includes fatigue, diapharesis, palpitation, disna on exertion and low extremity edema. Chronic mital regurgitation may be asymptomatic until it becomes bad. On cardiovascular examination patients with mital regurgitation, we listen to the left fifth intercostal space mid-clavicular. This area is also known as the apex where the apex of the heart is located. We normally can hear two heart sounds and s2. S1 correlates with your atrio ventricular valves closing which are your tricuspid and your mital valves closing and S2 is when your aotic and pulmonary valves close. We have a first heart sound s1 and a second heart sound s2. Drawing these sounds out we can divide it into three things. S1 is when your atrial ventricular valves are closing and blood is in the ventricles. The ventricles begin to contract. Between S1 and S2, your ventricles contract so hard that it pushes blood through the aortic and pulmonary valves. S2 your aortic valve closes and pulmonary valve closes allowing the ventricles to fill back with blood from the atria. Thus we can say that between S1 and S2 is cy when the ventricles are contracting and from S2 to S1 is diastily when the ventricles are relaxed and filling with blood. In mital regurgitation, the murmurss are heard during cy when the ventricles are contracting to push blood out of the heart. But because the mitro valve is not closed properly when it is supposed to, we hear a murmur from when the ventricles are contracting and it goes throughout the whole of cy. This murmur for mital regurgitation is a flat continuous murmur incally also called a pan or hollow systolic murmur. It is also important to know that the murmur radiates to the left axilla. Another finding is diminished S1 heart sounds which represents the closing of the mital valve. Recapping the mital regurgitation murmur begins at S1 and goes all the way till S2 when the aortic valve closes. The murmur is flat and continuous throughout cy. Investigations that can be performed include an ECG which may show signs of atrial fibrillation. AF atrial fibrillation is characterized by absent Pwaves with irregularly irregular rhythm pattern. The gold standard for assessing and identifying valvular heart disease is by using ultrasound echoc cardiograms. The eeology of mital regurgitations include most common mital valve prolapse, rheumatic heart disease which is caused by group A stptoccus leading to rheumatic fever and then rheumatic heart disease. The fever results in the generation of antibodies which due to molecular mimicry also attached to the heart valves. Endocarditis can cause mital regurgitation. Mital valve calcification with age can also cause mital regurgitation. Here I am drawing the cord tendon and pillary muscles which are structures that play a role in closing and opening the valves of the heart. When you have a mocardial inffection, this can result in cord tendon or papillary muscle dysfunction or rupture which can lead to a mitro regurgitation because these structures are not working properly. The final cause of mitro regurgitation to note is cardiomyopathy which includes dilated or hypertrophic cardiomyopathies. The management of mital regurgitation includes diuretic pre-operatively to reduce peripheral edema and lung edema prior to surgery. Surgery includes a valve repair or replacement. Surgeons can perform valvular plaste where a catheter is introduced from the femoral vein up and through the fammen between the atria where the balloon will help dilate the mital valve. Annuloplasty can be performed which is essentially when you insert an annuloplastic ring around the mitro valve to support the mitro valve. Now back to the valve replacement and repair. The damaged mitro valve can be replaced with a mechanical or boprothetic valve. There are weaknesses and strengths between the two valves. Mechanical valves are often used for the younger people because it lasts longer. Finally, a intraaortic balloon counterpulsation procedure can also be performed which promotes more blood flow through the aorta rather than back to the left atria where it should not go. This is only a temporary solution.