 Hello, in this video we're going to talk about orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is a serious potentially life-threatening infection involving the contents of the orbit, the space where your eyeball sits. Orbital cellulitis includes inflammation of fat and extraocular muscles, the muscles that move your eyes. It must be distinguished from periorbital cellulitis. Sometimes called preceptal cellulitis, sometimes called preceptal cellulitis, which is an infection of the front part of the eyelid, which is an infection of the front part of the eyelid and is not as serious as orbital cellulitis. Neither of these infections actually involve the eye globe itself. Orbital cellulitis is an ophthalmic emergency because of the risk of vision loss and extension to other structures, including the cavernous sinus. Essentially, it can lead to thrombosis, clots, and even death. Let's first talk and learn about the anatomy. The orbit is a cone-shaped structure, lying horizontally with its apex in the skull. The orbit is surrounded by paranasal sinuses. These are namely the frontal sinus, lying superiorly, ethmoid, medially, and maxillary sinuses, inferiorly. The ethmoid sinuses are separated from the orbit by a paper-thin layer called lamina papyrusia, which contains many perforations for nerves and blood vessels, as well as some natural fenestrations, which is termed zucker candles dehiscences. The most common route of infection of the orbit is by extension from the ethmoid sinuses, likely facilitated through these perforations. Important anatomy to know is that the superior and inferior orbital veins drain blood directly into what's called the cavernous sinus. Because of this communication and because the inferior orbital veins are valveless and have no valves to prevent backflow, infections can pass really easily from the orbit and lead to cavernous sinus syndrome and other infections within the skull itself. So let's compare the differences between orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is an acute infection involving the contents of the orbit and is an ophthalmic emergency. Bacterial rhinosinus sinusitis is the most common cause of orbital cellulitis. Infection of the sinus can lead to perforation and extension of the bacterial infection from the ethmoid sinuses, most commonly, leading to orbital cellulitis. Other potential causes include ophthalmic surgeries, peribulbar anesthesia, where local anesthetic is really put around the eye within the orbit, orbital trauma with a fracture or foreign body, dacriocystitis, infection of the teeth, middle ear or face can also extend into the orbit. The causative organism of orbital cellulitis are often difficult to identify, but the most commonly identified pathogens are really those such as Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococci species, and others also include Haemophilus influenzae and anaerobic bacteria. Periorbital cellulitis, also termed preceptal cellulitis, is infection of the eyelid and surrounding skin and tissue anterior to the orbital septum. It is typically milder than orbital cellulitis, and it may follow infection of adjacent structures, also such as seen in dacriocystitis or trauma. The causative organisms are really quite similar to orbital cellulitis, including Staphylococci aureus, as well as Streptococci species. Looking at the clinical features, both orbital cellulitis and preceptal cellulitis cause ocular pain and eyelid swelling with erythema. Only orbital cellulitis causes swelling and inflammation of extraocular muscles and fatty tissue within the orbit, and this will lead to pain with eye movement and proptosis, which is essentially eyeball popping out. Infection of the ocular muscles can lead to ophthalmoplegia, because inflammation of the eye muscles will cause weakness of that muscle. People also have reduced visual acuity and even visual loss in orbital cellulitis, but it does not occur in periorbital cellulitis. The vision loss associated with orbital cellulitis is thought to result from any of the following processes. Number one, optic neuritis, which is inflammation of the optic nerve caused by nearby infection, ischemia resulting from thrombophlebitis along the orbital vein, and also pressure resulting in central retinal artery occlusion. The infection in orbital cellulitis, because it's deeper, it can extend. It can create abscesses in the orbit and subperiosteum, essentially within the bone. Infections can extend to the brain, the meninges, and as mentioned, the cavernous sinus. In the cavernous sinus, it can cause inflammation of some other cranial nerves, leading to bilateral cranial nerve palsies. Chemosis is also more common in orbital cellulitis. Fevers and high neutrophil count is more common in orbital cellulitis. Complications of orbital cellulitis may develop rapidly. Therefore, close monitoring is indicated with daily checks of visual acuity and assessment of pupillary light reflex. A sluggish or absent pupillary light reflex or a relative afferent pupillary defect indicates optic nerve involvement. Diagnosis The diagnosis of orbital cellulitis versus periorbital cellulitis is a clinical diagnosis with support gold standard by imaging. Although both periorbital cellulitis and orbital cellulitis typically cause eyelid swelling with or without redness, erythema, the presence of ophthalmoplegia, pain with eye movement, decreased vision, relative afferent pupillary defect, and proptosis occur only with orbital cellulitis. CT and MRI scan of the orbit sinus is important for diagnosis. In this CT image, you can see a case of orbital cellulitis of the right orbit, and you can see inflammation of the extraocular muscles, the fat stranding, and anterior displacement of the globe. This person has proptosis. There is also periorbital cellulitis as well on top of this. Any worsening of the patient's symptoms or signs should lead to repeat imaging using CT scans to determine the necessity for surgical intervention. Finally, treatment of orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis is really using empirical therapy with antibiotics. Orbital cellulitis, for example, vancomycin plus keftrioxone and metronidazole, or vancomycin and tazacin. Again, each country may differ. Modify your regime based on microbiology diagnosis. With mild periorbital cellulitis, amoxicillin and clavulinate can be used orally. So in summary, in this video, we talked about orbital cellulitis and periorbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is an ophthalmic emergency because it can cause vision loss through several mechanisms. The most useful way to distinguish between the two is through clinical features. With orbital cellulitis, you have pain on eye movement, decreased vision, proptosis amongst pupillary changes, especially with light. Thank you for watching. Thank you.