So here we have the human respiratory tract, the lungs and here is the inferior vena descending aorta, the pulmonary arteries and the trachea and behind the trachea is the esophagus. Again the causitive agents are mainly the bacteria, virus and fungi. And these causitive agents can cause pneumonia just by being inhaled in into the lungs through the nose or mouth. And they can cause an infection if we have a if we have a bad pulmonary defense as we have learned. But there are ways of transmission aides from being inhaled into the lungs. So the first one is essentially inhalation of infected aerosols. Two can be aspiration of organisms that colonize the oro ferinx. Three can be aspiration of stomach content. There can also be hematological spread through the from the inferior vina or superior vina for example such as from the such as um such as spread from a hand infection or kidney infection. So basically pneumonia is a secondary infection. They can also be direct inoculation as a way of transmission. So we categorize pneumonia before into the areas of lung affected which is into lobbar pneumonia and bronco pneumonia. But we can also categorize pneumonia into the location where the infection was acquired as well as the cause of infection such as aspiration pneumonia and also the severity chronic pneumonia. So the types of pneumonia that we will look at as well as its causitive agents are the communityacquired pneumonia, noscomial pneumonia, uh aspiration pneumonia and chronic pneumonia. Let us begin with a community acquired pneumonia. Community acquired pneumonia is mostly bacterial or viral. It's often bacterial infection following an upper respiratory tract infection of a viral origin. Causitive agents include stptocous pneumonia, hemophilus influenza, morexella keralis as well as u influenza virus and RSV. Now noaccommial pneumonia also known as the hospitalacquired pneumonia. No pneumonia is pneumon pneumonia that is not uh incubating at the time of admission to the hospital and develops in a patient hospitalized for longer than 48 hours. So essentially it's uh pneumonia the lung infection after being admitted to hospital. So it's a causitive agent is from the hospital and these causitive agents can be the interroacteria pseudomona species as well as stafloccus orius um also taking into account methasylan resistance staflacccus orius. Now aspiration pneumonia which is also very common in hospital settings. So it can be kind of under noaccommill pneumonia. But aspir aspiration pneumonia occurs in marketkedly debilitated or in unconscious patients or during vomiting when the patient's vomiting because they can aspirate stomach content with gut with bacteria. So aspiration pneumonia often leads to abscess formation which is bad. Let us take a closer look at complications with abscess formation in the lungs. So lung abscess complications. So when you develop a lung abscess from aspiration pneumonia there can be complications such as extension to the it can extend to the plural cavity. You can have hemorrhage. You can develop brain abscess menitis if it travels if it can travel through the blood to the brain and you can also develop secondary amidosis. Now so back to aspiration pneumonia. Aspiration pneumonia usually uh occurs in the right lung because of the anatomical variation. So the right lung it has a wider uh essentially hilum and uh it's it's often more vertical and so things can get into the right lung easier. Causitive agents of aspiration pneumonia include streptococcus and stafloccus orius um and also gram negative species from the gram negative bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract. Lastly we will look at chronic pneumonia and it's usually involving fungus fungal causitive agents and occurs usually in imuninompromised patients. Four things for chronic pneumonia. Hystopplasmosis, tuberculosis, aspirilosis as well as nocardia. Okay. So those are the four types we looked at community acquired noscomial aspiration and chronic pneumonia. And there can be complications of pneumonia. These are absess formation as we have just talked about because it's dangerous. Absis formation leads to tissue destruction amongst many other things. Um empa as well as bactermic dissemination. So it can cause uh complications of pneumonia can cause essentially sepsis. Okay. So when a patient presents with signs and symptoms of a lung infection, it is important to perform investigations to rule out certain things and to uh you know diagnose pneumonia. So things that we can do chest X-ray, we can see and potentially diagnose the type of pneumonia uh using a chest X-ray according to where it affects the lungs. It can be consolidation to a lobe. It can be consolidated to a lobe or termed lob pneumonia or it can be patchy like bronco pneumonia. Another investigation is sputum testing gram stain to identify the bacteria using micro microscopy culture and sensitivity testing. You can also perform urine antigen testing to identify uh the bacteria stptoccus pneumonia or legionella um in case it has spread or as is a result of a UTI. Four, blood testing, full blood count, for example, white blood cells are up or down, which will indicate severity. Um, neutrfilia is indicative of bacterial infection. You can also have hemolytic anemia which suggests myopplasma um as an as a causitive agent. E electrolyte ura creatinine testing a ura high indicates the severity. Liver function test you can also perform and it's abnormal if the base uh of the pneumonia inflames essentially the liver. So the lower portion of the lung inflames the liver. We can also perform blood culture for b for bacteria involvement. So if it's bacteria bactermia it's pretty severe because it can lead to sepsis. So next is the management and treatment of pneumonia. So here we have a patient with pneumonia oxygen. All patients with tachnea, hypoxmia, hypotension and acidosis requires oxygen. Before looking at the other other management, it's important to recap or know the cardinal signs of pneumonia. So we know the signs and symptoms but the cardinal signs of pneumonia again um if you can remember we can remember it as CDEF. So C stands for chest pain, D stands for disna, E stands for exedate, sputum and F is for fever. Okay, let's continue with the management. So number one, oxygen. Two, intravenous fluids for severe patients, elderly and those who are vomiting. Three uh for pain, we use pain management. NSAIDs are usually sufficient but opioids can be used but it can be dangerous because it can lead to respiratory uh just depression but if it's you know monitored it's good. Four use of antibiotics. So use of antibiotics can be complicated. So essentially you don't know the causitive agent. So you have to do empirical therapy. When performing empiric empirical therapy, it's important to look at a few factors. These are what is the most likely pathogen, the risk for antimicrobial resistance and if the person has any medical comorbidities or allergies. So the use of empirical therapy is different for you know noscomial for community for aspiration for all the different types of pneumonia it's usually different some overlap so the use of empirical therapy for community coonia you use two things number one are betalactams such as your penicillins which will help you target your gram positive bacteria the second One, you can use macrolytes which are your measins. Macrolytes can help you target your gram negative bacteria. Of course, this is simplistic in that macrolytes can also target your gram positive, but essentially what you're doing with empirical therapy is that you are trying to cover uh the most likely causitive agent um being the bacteria. Of course, it might not be a bacteria. it might be a virus and so um you have to perform further investigations um until you find the causitive agent. But this is the empirical therapy is important so that it can cover uh the main culprits, the bacteria if if they are the cause. So how do these antibiotics work? Well, here um we're looking at a bacteria with its DNA. It's green, but we don't know what bacteria it is. So we use empirical therapy. So firstly let's look at beta lactams. Now betalactams essentially what they do is they target the cell wall of the bacteria which is essentially made up of pepidoglycan. The betalactams used for pneumonia include amoxicylin and flu coxicylin specifically targeting staff species. So in the bacteria bacteria make proteins all the time. Macrolytes um inhibit this process. Uh macrolytes including uh clommyiain and ariththroyosin are used. After you use empirical therapy, um the causitive agent might be identified following investigations such as your blood cultures, your um your x-rays or whatever. And so after you've identified the causitive agent um and if it is a bacteria and you know what what type of bacteria it is, you have to change your antibiotic that will specifically target that bacteria. Hope that made sense. Now just to in summary for uncomplicated communitywide pneumonia you use oral antibiotics but for co for complicated pneumonia uh community acquired pneumonia you would use IV intravenous antibiotics so that it can get into the system faster. Hope you enjoyed this video on pneumonia. Thank you for watching.