 tpulx, ttc. Hello, in this video we're going to talk about somatosensory pathways focusing on the dorsal column also known as the medial and meniscal pathway. The pathways from sensory receptors to the cortex are different for the various sensations. We will mainly be focusing on the pathways which carries touch, vibratory sense and proprioception sensations to the cerebral cortex. This pathway is the dorsal column, also known as the medial and meniscal pathway. Let's revise the spinal cord anatomy and some tracts. Here is a section of the spinal cord. The dorsal root here will carry sensory neurons from the periphery to the central nervous system, so to the spinal cord. The ventral roots carry motor neurons from the central nervous system to the peripheral nervous system. The dorsal column tract is here, at the back of the spinal cord. It can be divided into two parts. Laterally is the fasciculus cuneatus, and medial is the fasciculus gracilis. The dorsal column tracts are responsible for carrying sensory information on touch, pressure, vibration, and proprioception to the somatosensory cortex in the brain. Let's take a cross section of the brain and at the somatosensory cortex here. The somatosensory cortex is where the somatic sensory information is perceived. The thalamus here is an important relay station in the ascending pathway. The cerebrum continues to the brain stem, which is made up of three parts, the midbrain, pons, and the medulla. The spinal cord is here, and we're focusing on the cervical spinal cord as well as the lumbar spinal cord cross sections. The dorsal aspect of the spinal cord is the dorsal column tract, part of the white matter, which again carries sensory information on touch, pressure, vibration, and proprioception. The cutaneous receptors, so the skin receptors for touch and pressure, including vibration, are the mechanoreceptors. Mechanoreceptors are found in a number of cells. Mechanoreceptors include Merkel cells, which carry touch and pressure information from the superficial skin. This cell will carry this sensory information to the dorsal column of the spinal cord, in this case the cervical spinal cord. Ruffini endings are stimulated by sustained pressure. Meissner corpuscles are stimulated by sensory input of tap and flutters. Pacinian corpuscles pick up sensation including deep pressure as well as vibration. So when you use a chewing fork on the skin, the pacinian corpuscles can detect these changes and send sensory information to the central nervous system. Each of these cells, which are stimulated by touch, pressure, or vibration, will carry this sensory information to the dorsal column tract. This cell is called the first order neuron. Now again, the dorsal column, if you remember, is divided into two sections, the fasciculus cuneatus and the fasciculus gracilis. The fasciculus cuneatus is responsible for carrying sensory information from the upper body. And so, because this is the cervical spinal cord, this would constitute the upper body. So this first neuron will travel up the fasciculus cuneatus section of the dorsal column towards the medulla, where it will synapse with the second order neuron at the nucleus cuneatus. The second order neuron will cross over at the midline of the medulla and travel up the medial and meniscal tract of the brainstem towards the contralateral ventral posterior lateral nucleus, the thalamus. Here, the second order neuron will synapse with the third order neuron, which will then carry the sensory information in a highly specific way to the primary somatosensory cortex in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe. The somatosensory cortex is divided into regions that correlate with specific areas in the body, such as the face, hands, legs. Specific areas of the somatosensory cortex in this case, the hand, because this is where the sensory receptors detected something. This ascending system is called the dorsal column or the medial and meniscal system. It involves first order neurons, second order neurons, and third order neurons. The other thing I wanted to highlight is that sensation that is felt on the left side of the body is perceived by the right side of the brain as shown. Similarly, sensation that is perceived by the right side of the body is perceived by the left side of the brain. Remember, there are two sections of the dorsal column, the fasciculus cuneatus and the fasciculus gracilis. Fasciculus gracilis is a part involved in carrying sensory information from the lower limbs. In the lumbar spinal cord depicted here, only the fasciculus gracilis exists. Whereas in the cervical spinal cord, the fasciculus cuneatus and the fasciculus gracilis both exist. So imagine if this first order neuron is carrying sensory information from the foot and the lower leg. It will come to the dorsal column from the dorsal root of the spinal cord. It will travel up the fasciculus gracilis towards the medulla where it will synapse with the second order neuron at the nucleus gracilis. The second order neuron will cross over at the midline of the medulla and travel up the medial and mediscal tract to the end at the contralateral ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus. Here, the second order neuron will synapse with the third order neuron, which will carry then the sensory information in a highly specific way to the primary somatosensory cortex, and specifically to the region of the somatosensory cortex which represents the foot to the leg. So those are examples of the somatosensory pathways of touch, pressure and vibration. Let's now talk about proprioception. Proprioception is defined as the sense through which we perceive the position and movement of our body, including sense of equilibrium and balance. It basically is a sensation that allows us to keep our body balanced in space. When you think about proprioception, you think about proprioceptors, which are the receptors. And these proprioceptors are located in our muscles, tendons and joints, and relay information about muscle length and tension. So let's recap the anatomy again quickly first. Here again is the somatosensory cortex, the midbrain, pons, and the medial and meniscal tracts. The medulla, which have the nucleus gracilis and the nucleus cuneatus. The spinal cord is here. Let's just say it's the cross section of the cervical spinal cord. Okay, let's talk about proprioception and the proprio receptors. Let's look at the right elbow joint as an example of changes in muscle tension and stretch. Our muscles contain muscle spindles. The muscle spindles is a type of proprioceptor that provides information about changes in muscle length. The Golgi tendon is another sensory receptor, a type of proprioceptor, which basically lies on the tendons. The proprioceptors will detect changes in muscle tension and length, and then will relay this information through the dorsal column up to the brain. In this case, because it is the upper body, the first order neuron will travel up the fasciculus cuneatus and will go up towards the medulla, where it will synapse at the nucleus cuneatus with the second order neuron. The second order neuron will cross over at the midline of the medulla and travel up the medial and meniscal tract to the end at the contralateral side to the ventral posterior lateral nucleus. Here, the second order neuron will synapse with a third order neuron, which will carry sensory information in a highly specific way to the primary somatosensory cortex, to the region of the elbow joint, for example. The ning