 The shoulder joint is also known as the glenohumoral joint. It is a synovial joint that attaches the upper limb to the axial skeleton. The shoulder joint is a ball and socket joint. It is formed by the articulation of the head of the humerus and the head of the humerus and the joint, and the glenoid cavity, also known as Glenoid cavity, also known as Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa, Glenoid fossa is Part of the scapula The articulating surfaces of the joint are covered with highline cartilage The as the glenote fossa. The glenote cavity or glenote fossa is part of the scapula. The articulating surfaces of the joint are covered with highline cartilage. The shoulder joint is the most mobile joint of the human body. It allows for a wide range of movement at the upper limb. Flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and external rotation, and circunduction. However, this mobility comes at a cost of stability, as its bony surface offer little support. The shoulder joint is instead surrounded by muscles and ligament structures that offer the joint security. Now, due to this, the shoulder joint is actually one of the most frequently dislocated injured joints in the body. Let's first begin by talking about components of the shoulder joint, beginning with the joint capsule. Now, the joint capsule is a fibrous sheath that encloses the structures of the shoulder joint. Here is a coronal section of the right shoulder joint, as we look at it straight on. The synovial membrane lines the inner part of the joint capsule and produces synovial fluid to reduce friction between the articular surfaces. That is why the shoulder joint is a synovial joint. The outer part of the capsule contains parts of the ligaments of the shoulder as well as muscles. Now, there are several ligaments that stabilizes the shoulders. There is the glenohumeral ligaments, which is composed of the superior, middle and inferior parts. And the glenohumeral ligament extend from the humerus to the glenoid fossa and acts to reinforce the joint capsule. The glenohumeral ligaments act to stabilize the anterior aspect of the joint. The coracoal humeral ligament extends from the base of the coracoid process to the greater tubercle of the humerus. This ligament supports the superior part of the joint capsule. Next, the transverse humeral ligament is found between the two tubercles of the humerus. The bicep's tendon runs through here. The coracoacromial ligament extends from the acromion and coracoid process of the scapula and forms an arch-like structure found over the shoulder joint. This is referred to as the coracoacromial arch. This ligament acts to resist superior dislocation of the head of the humerus. Next, let's talk about some important muscles that help stabilize the shoulder joint. And these are called the rotator cuffs. The rotator cuffs are composed of tendons of four muscles. The subscapularis is located anteriorly on the scapula. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor are located posteriorly on the scapula. The supraspinatus comes over the top here, as you can see. These muscles and tendons provide stability in the shoulder, attaching around the head of the humerus bone, encircling it like a cuff. The primary function of the rotator cuff is to position the humeral head in the glinoid, allowing the larger muscles to provide necessary power. Next, talking about the bursa. The shoulder joint has several bursae, which acts as a cushion between tendons and other joint structures. There are two main bursas found in the shoulder. Firstly, the subacromial bursa, which is located deep in the deltoid anachromion and superficial to the supraspinatus tendon and joint capsule. It acts to reduce friction under the deltoid, which enables free motion of the rotator cuff tendons. Secondly, you have the subscapular bursa, and this is found between the subscapularis tendon and the scapula. It acts to reduce friction on the tendon during movement of the shoulder joint. The blood supply to the shoulder joint is provided by the anterior and posterior circumflex humeral arteries. These are both branches of the auxiliary artery. There are also contributions from the suprascapular artery, which is a branch of the thyrocervical trunk. And this brings us to innervation. The sensory innervation to the aria is really by the auxiliary and suprascapular nerves. These nerves are also responsible for motor function of some of the muscles that we have learned. So here you can see the auxiliary nerve next to the auxiliary artery and the suprascapular nerve next to the suprascapular artery. And as you can see, these innervate some associated muscles we have already learned. Some clinical anatomy. Now, we will briefly talk about four clinical conditions that relate to the shoulder joint and brief examination findings. First of all, beginning with rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tears are the most common cause of shoulder pain. And this is because the tendons of the rotator cuff are often under a lot of strain as they function in stabilizing the glenohumeral joint. Rotator cuff tears occur when there is a complete separation of the tendinous fibers from their insertion onto the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The clinical features include pain around the shoulder that may radiate down the humerus. Pain can be worse with overhead activity, affecting day-to-day life and even sleep. Rotator cuff injuries will be discussed in more detail in a separate video. Next clinical anatomy is a condition called shoulder impingement. Shoulder impingement is a group of conditions that actually is where you have entrapment of the musculoskeletal soft tissue within the shoulder. And this most often presents in pain. It is an overuse injury with compression of the rotator cuffs between the greater tuberosity of the humerus and the acromion. Common presentation is usually where one develops pain that is gradual and may present for weeks or months around the shoulder area, specifically in the lateral deltoid, just distal to the tip of the acromion. Again, the pain is worse with overhead activity. Commonly, you can even see local swelling and tenderness in the front of the shoulder. On examination, when someone abducts their arm, between 90 and 120 degrees, they can develop pain. And this is called the painful arc. So it's positive for a painful arc, which can indicate a shoulder impingement. Because, again, the soft tissue structures here are impinged between the head of the humerus and the acromion. The next clinical condition is shoulder dislocation and shoulder instability. As said previously, the shoulder joint is one of the most frequently dislocated joints in the body. Dislocations at the shoulder are described by where the humeral head lies in relation to the glenoid fossa. 95% of shoulder dislocations are anterior dislocations. However, posterior and inferior dislocations can also occur, about 4% and 1% respectively. Superior displacement is prevented by the coracochromial arch. The most common type of dislocation is anterior dislocation, and it's a result of excessive extension and external rotation of the humerus. In anterior dislocation, the humeral head is forced anteriorly and inferiorly into the weakest point of the joint capsule. Now, if the joint capsule is torn, there is an increased risk of future dislocations. Posterior dislocation is uncommon, and it typically occurs in people who have seizures and electrocution injuries. There are some complications of shoulder dislocations. Now, the axillary nerve, as we have learned, is located very close around this area, and it can be damaged in a dislocation of the shoulder, or even during attempted reduction of the shoulder. And remember that the nerve runs in close proximity to the shoulder joint, and around the surgical neck of the humerus. If the axillary nerve is injured, paralysis of the deltoid occurs, as well as loss of sensation over the regimental badge area, which is the inferior portion of the deltoid. The last clinical condition to talk about is something called frozen shoulder, also known as adhesive capsulitis. And interestingly enough, this occurs in approximately 2-5% of people. It is characterized by initially painful and latter progressively restricted active and passive movements of the glenohumeral joint. The cause of frozen shoulder is believed to be inflammation in the shoulder capsule itself, which causes pain and capsular fibrosis and adhesion, and this leads to decreased range of motion in all planes. Pain is often gradual around the shoulder before any noticeable loss of motion. This is then followed by pain at rest, and then pain with movement in all directions. And so, on examination, there is limitation in movement, in both active and passive movements, especially in abduction of the shoulder, internal and external rotation. These are very important findings to differentiate between other shoulder problems. Risk factors for frozen shoulder include being female, increasing age, and having diabetes. So, in summary, today we talked about the clinical anatomy of the shoulder joint. We discussed the general anatomy of the shoulder joint, its vascular supply and innervation. We then discussed clinical cases relevant to the shoulder joint. These are rotator cuff tears, shoulder impingement, shoulder dislocation and instability, and frozen shoulder. In a separate video, we will focus more in depth of the rotator cuff muscles and specific rotator cuff injuries. Thank you for watching.