Hello. In this video, we will look at the skeletal system which uh is the system of the bones. And we have many different types of bones in our body with all shapes and sizes. We have flat bones such as the sternum. We have irregular bones such as the vertebrae. We have short bones um where which are the carpal bones in the hands. We have sesimoid bones such as our patella kneecap and long bones such as the humorris. Bones are hard as we know. However, if you look at the humorus here, the inside of the bone is actually not as hard. This is the spongy bone which um is tbacular bone making up the inner bone. It is the compact bone that is dense. It's the dense bone made up of osteons. This is the outer bone. The long bones such as the humorus has have different sections. So the very ends of the long bone is the epiphyses. Then the metaphyses which separate the ends of the long bone to the center of the bone. Now the center of the bone, the bone shaft is called the diaphoses. The inside of the bone, the center of the bone should I say, can be hollow. And this is the medela which can contain bone marrow. Let's look at another example. Let's look at the flat bone such as the sternum here. But let's mainly look inside the manubrium which is the top part of the sternum. Just like the long bone, the outside is me is the compact bone, the hard one. And the center, the more the inside of the bone is a spongy bone, which is the tubiculated bone. So, I hope you get an appreciation that there is compact, there's spongy bone. Let us cut a cross-section of the The hollow center here, the cavity is the medela. There are many cells that actually make up the bone which play an important role not only in making the bone strong and to keep for to help us with posture and movement but the cells within the bones are very important in the homeostatic uh levels you can say of minerals such as calcium and phosphate. Now cells of the bone include osteoblasts which are the cells responsible for building our bones. There are also osteoclasts which are cells responsible for breaking down bone. There's also osteocytes which are which are mature bones which are mature bone cells from from trapped osteoblasts. So they are osteoblasts and they become trapped uh in their own matrix forming osteoccytes. You also have osteoprogentor cells which are cells that essentially become osteoblasts. There are there are also cells that are made from our bone marrow such as our such as our immune cells but we won't talk about that here. Now let's draw another the same cross-section of the long bone with the medulla. Now let's see how these uh cells that we just talked about actually make up the bone. So looking at compact bone here we have osteoccytes which are the mature bone cells. Remember they they become osteoccytes when the osteoblasts are trapped within the matrix. Then on the very outside are the actual osteoblasts which are cells that are building the bone secretreting matrix. Again when these osteoblasts become trapped in the bone matrix they actually become osteocytes and form the compact bone. Surrounding the compact bone altogether is a layer called the perryioium. Now the perryostium is separated into a fibrous layer and a cellular layer which is the layer where we find the osteoprogentor cells and osteoblasts. Surrounding the perryioium are the blood vessels which penetrate the bone through canals and uh which allows it to supply the inside of the bone. It is important to know that the bone itself does not actually have any pain fibers but the perryostium does. Now let's zoom more closer to the compact bone and spongy bone area to look at to look at how these uh how bone is organized in a uh from a different angle. So here again is a spongy bone which is the inner bone and then we have the outer compact bone the hard bone. Surrounding the compact bone is the sorry the bone altogether is a perryostium which is pain sensitive remember and uh surrounding the perryostium are the blood vessels. The arteries and veins and the arteries and veins can penetrate inside the bone to supply the inner bone as well. The blood vessels travel uh from the outside to the inside of the bone through can um canals. Now remember the compact bone is mainly made up of trapped osteoblasts which are the osteoccytes. They are actually organized into an oion which are the functional units of compact bone. If we pull out one of these oons, we can find this central canal which houses blood vessels. And this is how the bone stays nourished. Anyway, I hope you enjoy this video on an introduction to the skele skeletal system and the structure and anatomy of the bone, the long bone especially. Thank you.