 Hello, in this video we're going to talk about the ankle joint. The ankle joint. The ankle joint or talocrural joint is a synovial joint located in the lower limb. It is formed by the bones of the leg, the tibia and fibula as well as the foot, the talus. Together the ends of the tibia and fibula form the tibia and fibula form the tibia and fibula. The talus is formed a bracket shaped socket covered in highline cartilage. This socket is known as the malleola mortis. The talus fits nicely into the mortis. The talus fits nicely into the mortis. The talus bone in your ankle is a unique shape with smooth cartilage covering over 60% of its surface. Unlike other bones, it doesn't connect to any muscle. The talus is broad anteriorly and narrow posteriorly. the tib t!.. t!... the tib. t!... the tib. tibia tibia known as your deltoid ligaments. So medial ligaments are equal to deltoid ligaments. The medial ligaments consist of four ligaments which fan out from the malleolus attaching to the talus, calcaneus and navicular bones. The primary action of the deltoid ligaments is to resist over-eversion of the foot, so the foot moving outwards, or the ankle moving outwards. The ligaments originating from the lateral malleolus include the anterior talofibula, posterior talofibula and the calcaneofibula ligaments. The main action of these ligaments is to resist over-eversion of the foot, so the foot or ankle moving inwards. Now let's talk about the muscles of the ankle and the movement. As mentioned, the ankle joint is a hinge-type joint, with movement permitted in one plane. This allows for the movement dorsiflexion and plantarflexion. Dorsiflexion is possible thanks to the muscles in the anterior compartment of the leg, the tibialis anterior, extensor digitorium longus and extensor hallucis longus. Plantarflexion is possible thanks to the muscles in the posterior compartment of the leg, namely gastrocnemus, soleus and posterior tibialis. The gastrocnemus and soleus also help form the Achilles tendon, which then attaches to the calcaneus. Eversion and inversion are produced at the other joints of the foot. The movement of eversion and inversion, so the ankle or the foot moving outwards and inwards, are actually produced not by the ankle joint, but another joint of the foot, the subtalar joint. The ankle joint is innervated by a few important nerves. Firstly, the deep perineal nerve and the superficial perineal nerve are branches of the common perineal nerve, as well as the tibial nerve, which is a branch of the sciatic nerve. These nerves supply motor function for all the movements of the ankle, including dorsiflexion, plantarflexion, eversion and inversion. The arterial supply to the ankle joint is derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial, posterior tibial and fibular arteries. The arteries palpated clinically are the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis. Let's talk about some clinical anatomy, beginning with the common ankle sprain. An ankle sprain refers to partial or complete tears in the ligaments of the ankle joint. It usually occurs via excessive inversion to a plantarflexed and weight-bearing foot. So really, the most common injury is when your foot or ankle points inwards. The lateral ligaments are most likely to be damaged for two main reasons. Firstly, the lateral ligaments are weaker than the medial ligaments. The lateral ligaments are also important in resisting inversion. The anterior talofibular ligaments is the lateral ligaments most at risk of irreversible damage. The next clinical anatomy is POTS fracture. A POTS fracture is a term used to describe a bimalleolar fracture, when your medial and your lateral malleoli get broken. Or a trimalleolar fracture, when your medial and lateral malleoli as well as the distal tibia get broken. The type of injury is produced by forced eversion of the foot, so your foot gets twisted outwards. It occurs in a series of stages. So firstly, you have forced eversion, which pulls on your medial ligaments, producing an avulsion fracture of the medial malleolus. The talus bone then moves laterally, breaking off the lateral malleolus. And then the tibia is then forced anteriorly, shearing off the distal and posterior parts against the talus. The final clinical anatomy is the foot drop, which is when you have injury to the perineal nerve, specifically the common perineal nerve and its branch, the deep perineal nerve. The common perineal nerve normally runs close to the fibula and supplies the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion, which is lifting the foot up, as well as foot eversion, turning the sole of the foot outward. If the common perineal nerve is injured, the person cannot dorsiflex the foot, and a foot drop occurs. As a result, the person will have a high stepping gait to help the foot clear off the ground when a person walks. In addition, the foot will slap down on the floor, because it can't be lowered in a controlled manner. In summary, the ankle joint is a synovial joint formed by the tibia and fibula, as well as the talus. The ankle joint is a hinged joint and performs dorsiflexion and plantar flexion. The ankle joint is supported by strong ligaments, the medial ligaments being more stronger than the lateral ligaments. The ligaments can be divided into the ligaments that join the distal fibula and tibia, and the ligaments that join the fibula and the tibia to the foot. An ankle sprain is a very common injury of the ankle joint, and is when there is partial or complete tears to the ligaments of the ankle joint. With key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key