 as lateral epicondylitis. Patients typically report a dull pain on the lateral side of the elbow which often worsens with repetitive movements such as flexion extension or pronation supination of the wrist. This condition can cause discomfort during various activities from sports like tennis to everyday tasks like turning a doorknob, opening a jar or typing. Let's revise some anatomy. Well, the distal humerus has a medial and lateral epicondyle. The epicondyles are bony prominences easily palpated on the medial and lateral sides of the distal humerus just proximal to the elbow joint. The lateral humeral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand extensors. The medial humeral epicondyle serves as the bony common origin of the wrist and extrinsic hand flexors. Lateral elbow tendinopathy is diagnosed clinically through examination by the following findings. There is tenderness at the origin of the ECRB, the extensor carpi radialis brevis, on the lateral epicondyle, although the pain may also spread to the origins of the extensor digitorum commonis and the extensor carpi radialis longus. There is pain with resisted wrist extension with the elbow in full extension or 60 degrees. There is pain with passive terminal wrist flexion with the elbow in full extension. Medial elbow tendinopathy So what about medial elbow tendinopathy? Well, medial elbow tendinopathy, also known as golfer's elbow, causes pain on the inner side of the elbow. Comparatively, both medial and lateral elbow tendinopathy share similarities in that they are both overuse injuries affecting the elbow tendons, they are associated with repetitive motion and manifest as localized pain exacerbated by specific movements. However, the primary differences lies in the location of the pain and the involved muscle groups. Medial epicondylitis, specifically medial elbow tendinopathy, impacts the inner elbow and affects the flexor pronation group, while lateral elbow tendinopathy affects the outer elbow and involves the extensor carpi radialis brevis and associated with the extensor muscles. So one flexion, one extension. Investigations Imaging techniques such as x-rays, ultrasounds or MRIs are not routinely used, but can be helpful in showing specific changes like spur formation, tendon homogeneity, tendon structure or fluid collection near the lateral epicondyle. Remember, lateral elbow tendinopathy is a clinical diagnosis. Treatment strategies focus on acknowledging the overuse nature of the syndrome and managing symptoms conservatively at first. Recommended non-operative treatments, which include rest, ice application, compression and the use of topical anti-inflammatory medications such as Voltaren gel. Additionally, wearing compression straps or counterforce braces can alleviate symptoms by limiting tendon strain during activities. If conservative measures are insufficient, a combination of lidocaine and corticosteroid ejections may be considered. However, such treatments should be limited to prevent tendon damage. For athletes, professional coaching may be necessary to correct biomechanical faults. Surgical intervention is considered a last resort and is only advised if the patient's symptoms remain severe despite trying all non-operative options for at least a year. Surgical treatments typically involve excision of the damaged tendon and drilling of the subchondral bone at the lateral epicondyle to stimulate healing and repair of the extensa origin. So, in summary, lateral elbow tendinopathy, known as tennis elbow or previously lateral epicondylitis is an overuse injury that affects the tendons that originate in the lateral epicondyle, condyle, specifically the extensor carpi radialis brevis. Treatment is non-surgical mainly, but in severe cases, surgery is performed. Thank you.