 Inflammlung, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel, Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood vessel Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood Inflammation of the blood In secondary vasculitis. Primary vasculitis essentially is its own disease entity or condition, whereas secondary vasculitis is secondary to something else, such as an autoimmune disease, medication, or infection. Let's focus on some causes of primary vasculitis. We can categorize primary vasculitis based on the size and the type of blood vessel that is affected. Here is a drawing of different sizes of the arteries in red which become smaller arterioles and then capillaries and then veins in blue at the bottom. Primary vasculitis include those that affect large arteries. These are called large vessel vasculitis, medium sized arteries, your medium vessel vasculitis, and then you have anchor associated small vessel vasculitis which affect small blood vessels including arterioles, capillaries, and small veins. The other type of small vessel vasculitis is immune complex associated small vessel vasculitis, as well as anti-GBM syndrome which specifically targets the capillaries. Let's take a look at each of these in a bit more detail. Now the large vessel vasculitis typically affect large arteries such as the aorta and its branches. A type of large vessel vasculitis is giant cell arthritis also known as temporal arthritis which typically affect the cranial blood vessels including the temporal arteries which can lead to blindness and also it can cause jaw claudication infection in worst case scenario. While giant cell arthritis typically affect older people, there is one that affects younger people called takayasu arthritis, the other type of large vessel vasculitis. It causes inflammation of large arteries, typically branches of the aorta causing absent or reduced peripheral pulses such as the radial pulse. And interestingly there are no antibodies that are found in these two types of large vessel vasculitis. Then you have the medium vessel vasculitis and there are two types here. These are Kawasaki's disease which affect children. Kawasaki disease is characterized by fever greater than 5 days, bilateral conjunctival congestion, lip and oral changes such as strawberry tongue, polymorphous rash, changes in the peripheral extremities, and cervical lymphadenopathy. Coronary artery aneurysm and dilatation are complications in Kawasaki disease. The other medium vessel vasculitis is polyarthritis nodosa which can be extremely dangerous. It is divided into systemic or only cutaneous, affecting the skin. It causes inflammation of the medium arteries and never capillaries or the veins. It is associated with hepatitis B. Then you have the small vessel vasculitis including ANCA which stands for Anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody. It is a rare systemic disease which comprises of microscopic polyangitis MPA, e-cinophilic granulomatosis with polyangitis EGPA and granulomatosis with polyangitis GPA. They have few or no immune deposition and predominantly affect small vessels such as the capillaries, venules and arterioles. They are characterized by presence of ANCA antibodies which are MPO or PR3 antibodies. The other type of small vessel vasculitis is immune complex vasculitis where you have immune complexes that deposit in the vessel wall and this includes IgA vasculitis also known as Henoch-Chonlon purpura. Hypo complementemic urticarial vasculitis which is basically urticaria and you also get vasculitis and low complements. Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis which is associated with hepatitis C virus. And finally anti-GBM which I have drawn separately here because this condition is unique. Firstly there are antibodies called anti-GBM which target glomerular basement membrane proteins but it can also target the lungs. Without prompt diagnosis and treatment the patients with anti-GBM syndrome or disease can develop lung hemorrhage, kidney failure and even death. There is another type of vasculitis called variable vessel vasculitis under primary vasculitis and there are two types of variable vessel vasculitis these are Bichette's disease and Cogan's syndrome which are variable vessel vasculitis because they target or affect either small vessels or medium sized vessels. Bichette's disease is an auto-inflammatory condition with a clinical triad of oral ulcers, genital ulcers and uveitis. Cogan's syndrome is a rare auto-inflammatory systemic disease which is characterized also by a triad of inflammatory eye disease, vestibular auditory dysfunction and vasculitis. Now finally the other primary vasculitis that I should mention and not as exciting as what we just talked about include single organ specific vasculitis and this includes isolated erotitis which is inflammation of the largest artery in the body, the aorta, primary central nervous system vasculitis and cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis which is essentially inflammation of the small blood vessels in the skin and this condition can be its own entity or associated also with other things such as infections, medications. Now vasculitis can lead to many different complications depending on the blood vessel affected and also the organ affected but it's important to know that inflammation of the blood vessel causes damage to the blood vessel and can lead to thrombosis which is clot formation, it can lead to stenosis, narrowing of the blood vessel and even occlusion so blockage of the blood vessel and finally when you get inflammation and damage to the blood vessel it can make it slightly elastic and so dilate causing what's called an aneurysm. So we talked about briefly the different types of primary vasculitis. Let's talk now about secondary vasculitis which again is a type of vasculitis that occurs secondary to something else. They are grouped into two broad categories, firstly vasculitis associated with another autoimmune disease, this includes lupus, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis or sarcoidosis. Then you have vasculitis associated with other conditions or even medications and this includes hepatitis blast and cruise infections, syphilis, drug-induced vasculitis is very common including antibiotics. There is also drug induced or associated anchor vasculitis whereby taking a drug can actually cause anchor antibodies to be formed thus leading to a small vessel vasculitis that is anchor. Finally there's also cancer associated vasculitis. So in summary in this video we revised the different types of vasculitis. Firstly we divided vasculitis into primary or secondary then we focused on primary vasculitis and further categorized it based on the size of the blood vessel affected. Again typically arteries. These include large vessel vasculitis, medium vessel vasculitis and small vessel vasculitis. There's also variable vessel vasculitis and single organ vasculitis. Thank you for watching I hope you enjoyed this video. In the video sel