 In this video, we're going to talk about foot drop. A foot drop is characterized by the inability to lift the front part of the foot. This movement is called dorsiflexion. It causes the affected foot to drag or slap against the ground while walking. This condition can significantly affect a person's mobility and overall quality. quality of life. Foot drop is a result of a problem with the common perineal nerve or the fibular nerve. The nerve that innervates the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion. Let's learn a bit about the anatomy. Talking about the sciatic nerve which then eventually divides and becomes the common perineal nerve. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve of the lower limb. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve of the lower limb. It is a thick, flat band approximately 2 cm wide, approximately 2 cm wide, the largest nerve in the body. The sciatic nerve is derived from the lumbocacal plexus roots, L4 to S3. The sciatic nerve is composed of two main nerve bundles, the common perineal nerve and the tibial nerve. The sciatic nerve leaves the pelvis and enters the gluteal region via the greater sciatic foramen. It emerges inferiorly to the piriformis muscle and then descends in an infralateral direction. It then enters the posterior thigh, so the back, by passing deep to the long head of the biceps femoris. The sciatic nerve is a major nerve in the lower limb and then it splits into two smaller nerves just above the back of the knee. These two nerves are called the tibial nerve and the common perineal nerve. The tibial nerve helps control the muscles of the calf, which are important for plantar flexion, so standing on your tiptoes, as well as turning the ankle or foot inwards. This is termed ankle inversion. The common perineal nerve, on the other hand, travels around the outer part of the leg, at the top of the fibula. This nerve wraps around the fibula and then descends down, dividing into two smaller nerves. The superficial perineal nerve and the deep perineal nerve. The superficial perineal nerve supplies the muscle that turn your foot outward, ankle eversion, and also provides sensation to the front of your lower leg, as well as the top of your foot. The deep perineal nerve controls the muscles that lift your toes and foot up. These are the tibialis anterior, extensor digitorium longus, extensor hallucis longus, and perineus tertius. The deep perineal nerve provides sensation to the area between the big toe and the one next to it. The deep perineal nerve can be isolated to the lumbar 5 nerve root. Now, if you injure the common perineal nerve, you then affect its two branches, the superficial and deep perineal nerve. It will cause difficulty in lifting the foot up and also turning the foot outward. Eversion. This can lead to a specific way of walking, where you lift your foot higher than normal, and it can also increase the risk of falls. All of this is what is termed a foot drop. So what are the causes of a foot drop? Well, you can think about it globally, looking at lesions at each of the sites where the nerve comes from and travels to. So, for example, if you have issues or lesions in the L5 nerve root, this can cause a foot drop. Lesions in the lumbosacral plexus. Lesion in the sciatic nerve. Specifically, lesions in the common perineal nerve, or the deep perineal nerve, and superficial perineal nerve. We will first talk about lesions that occur in the common perineal nerve, which then will obviously affect both the superficial and deep perineal nerve. A major cause of common perineal nerve injury is through compression. So compression of the actual common perineal nerve at the level of the fibular head. And this is due to the presence of a bony prominence at the fibular head, as well as a superficial positioning of the nerve itself at that level. Compartment syndrome affecting the leg, either due to trauma or related ischemia, can lead to perineal nerve ischemia with subsequent foot drop. Trauma associated from orthopedic injuries such as knee dislocation, severe ankle inversion, or some other fractures can also directly cause injury to the common perineal nerve. Iatrogenic causes from surgical procedures or protracted positioning and anesthesia. So for example, women in a lithotomy position giving birth, causes compression against the fibular head and the actual common perineal nerve, as well as orthopedic procedures can possibly disrupt or injure the common perineal nerve. There are many neurological disorders or causes of common perineal nerve injury. For example, a stroke that affects the motor pathway that supplies the actual muscles of the tibialis anterior or the lateral aspect of the tibia. So a stroke that affects the motor pathway responsible for the nerve fibers that will eventually become the common perineal nerve. Multiple sclerosis, demyelinating lesions of the central nervous system, can affect also the motor pathway. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. ALS, or motor neuron disease, causes issues with the anterior horn of the spinal cord and thus the motor pathway. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, a hereditary disorder characterized by motor sensory polyneuropathy. So this is a lower motor neuron injury, as well as motor neuritis multiplex, a vasculitis of the small vessels that supplies the actual common perineal nerve. Guillain-Barre syndrome, as well as diabetes mellitus, or other neurological disorders. Injury at the level of the perineal nerve will only cause a foot drop, so loss of dorsiflexion, as well as ankle eversion if the superficial perineal nerve is involved. The nerve upstream, so the sciatic nerve itself, is otherwise okay, including the tibial nerve, the nerve that supplies the calf muscles. But it's also important to consider lesions upstream, that we also mentioned earlier, such as a L5 reticulopathy, most commonly due to an L4-L5 disc protrusion, prolapse or herniation. This will result in foot drop, as well as neuropathic pain, starting in the lumbar region and radiating down through the posterior thigh to the big toe. Clinical examination has a straight positive leg raise test. Also, lumbosacral plexopathy and any lesion along the sciatic nerve can lead to a foot drop. And so investigations to order for a person that comes to you with a new foot drop include x-ray and CT scan, first of all, around the knee or even the pelvis, really looking for any fractures, masses, arthritis or tumors that could be compressing anywhere along the nerve root, an MRI scan along the nerve pathway to see if there's any features of nerve compression. An electromyogram and nerve conduction studies can also be helpful in localizing where the lesion is, whether it is the common perineal nerve or below, or the sciatic nerve being involved. Treatment for a foot drop, really importantly, is physical therapy, the use of orthosis as well as splinting, pain management if there's a radicular component to it. Surgery can also be performed where early on a nerve repair can be done or even a nerve transfer where a functional but less important nerve is transferred to a distal part of the affected nerve. So in summary, a foot drop is characterized by the inability of the front part of the foot to move up. This movement is called dorsiflexion. It causes the affected foot to drag or slap against the ground while walking. A foot drop is a result of a problem with a common perineal nerve, the nerve that innervates the muscle responsible for dorsiflexion. So pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim pim