The World Health Organization ( WHO) has declared Kobe 19 a pandemic. The term Kobe 19 stands for coronavirus disease 2019 and is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in humans and many different animal species, including cats and bats. Common human coronaviruses typically cause upper respiratory tract infections, such as the common cold. Most people are infected with one or more of these viruses at some point in their lives. Human coronavirus infections usually resolve on their own with rest. Rarely, coronaviruses that infect animals can mutate and become a new strain of virus that then infects and spreads among people. Examples of this include the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus of 2003 and the Middle East respiratory syndrome ( MERZ) coronavirus. In late 2019, the city of Wuhan, in China's Hebei province, noticed a number of unusual cases of pneumonia in its hospitals. These patients presented with clinical symptoms of a dry cough.  Dyspnea, fever, and imaging revealing bilateral pulmonary infiltration were reported to the Chinese branch of the World Health Organization on December 31, 2019. The search for the origin of the outbreak then began, which turned out to be the Juanan Seafood and Wildlife Market. This market sold a wide variety of vertebrate and invertebrate animals captured in the wild or raised on farms. On January 1, 2020, this market was closed. Furthermore, on January 12, 2020, China shared the genetic sequence of the novel coronavirus, which was of utmost importance so that other countries could begin developing specific diagnostic tests. At the end of January, it was discovered that the coronavirus had originated in wild bats and belonged to a group similar to SARS; therefore, this new coronavirus is also known as SARS coronavirus 2. On January 30, the outbreak of the novel coronavirus was declared an emergency. On February 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced that the official name of the disease would be COVID-19, short for Coronavirus Disease 2019, was declared a pandemic on March 11. A pandemic is a global outbreak of a disease, something that should not be taken lightly. COVID-19 is concerning because it is highly contagious. The number of cases is increasing rapidly, due to both the transmission of the virus and increased awareness and availability of diagnostic kits. As of March 15, 2020, COVID-19 has affected more than 150,000 people worldwide and has a mortality rate of around 3%. To put this in perspective, if you compare these figures with other coronavirus outbreaks, for example, SARS in 2003 had just over 8,000 cases with a mortality rate of around 95 percent, and COVID-19 in 2012 had about 2,500 cases with a mortality rate of 35 percent. Despite having a lower mortality rate than its predecessors,  3% is still a very significant rate, especially with the rapid growth in the number of cases. This means that for every 100 infected people, three may die. If we compare these coronavirus statistics with seasonal flu caused by the influenza virus, which affects millions of people every year, the mortality rate of seasonal flu is less than 0.2 percent. COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV- 2, a beta coronavirus composed of a single strand of ribonucleic acid (RNA). The virus attacks and infects the respiratory system and is transmitted through contact with droplets and fomites from another infected person, who may be symptomatic or even asymptomatic. The incubation period ranges from 2 to 14 days. The average age of those affected is 47 years, and children are rarely symptomatic. Both men and women are affected equally. The classic symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, dry cough, sore throat, and difficulty breathing. Symptoms can progress, and infected individuals may develop pneumonia and even acute respiratory distress.  It requires intensive care, as we mentioned before. The mortality rate for COVID-19 is approximately 3%, but this rate increases with age, especially for those over 60, but more significantly for those over 80. The mortality rate also increases with the presence of other diseases such as diabetes and heart and kidney conditions. Laboratory findings in patients infected with COVID-19 show lymphocyte penny, which is a low white blood cell count, and chest CT scans show ground-glass opacity patterns, common in viral pneumonia. The diagnosis of COVID-19 is made using the PCR method, which identifies the genetic material of the virus. Currently, there is no effective treatment available for COVID- 19, including antivirals, antibiotics, corticosteroids, or traditional medicine. There is also no vaccine. However, at this time, there are several randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials exploring different treatment options. Coronavirus should not be confused with the influenza virus that causes seasonal flu.  COVID- 19 and the flu are very similar in their presentation; that is, both cause respiratory symptoms that can range from asymptomatic or mild to severe illness and death. Secondly, both viruses are transmitted through contact, droplets, and fomites. Consequently, the same public health measures, such as hand hygiene and good respiratory care, are important steps that can be taken to prevent infection. The major difference between the two viruses is that the flu, which causes seasonal influenza, has a vaccine available annually to help prevent and reduce flu symptoms, while for the coronavirus, there is no vaccine available yet, and it relies solely on the body's own immune system as a defense mechanism. This is why public health measures against COVID-19 are so important to help reduce the spread of the disease. You have probably already seen this graph online, where the vertical axis shows the number of cases and the horizontal axis reflects units of time. When an infectious outbreak like COVID-19 occurs, the number of cases skyrockets, as does the number of deaths. If there are no public health measures, this peak in the curve shows us that many people are If everyone were to get sick at the same time, there wouldn't be enough hospital beds or ventilators for all the patients who need them, and the healthcare system would collapse because its capacity would be overwhelmed. This is already happening in Italy, for example. The goal in an infectious outbreak is to flatten the curve, as the graph shows. The idea is to increase social distancing to slow the spread of the virus so that there isn't a large increase in the number of people getting sick at the same time. There are a number of measures we can take to help flatten this curve. The first step is to protect yourself by washing your hands thoroughly for at least 20 seconds, especially after visiting public spaces. You should also avoid contact with infected people and reduce transmission between people by avoiding crowds if someone potentially sick is present. Protect others by staying home if you are sick. In this case, isolation for at least a week is recommended. If you suspect you may have contracted COVID-19, contact your doctor for a possible diagnosis.  Cover your mouth when you cough and cover sneezes with tissues, making sure to throw the tissue away and wash your hands. Only wear a mask if you are sick; you don't need to wear one if you don't have symptoms unless you are caring for someone who is sick. The care measures taken by your doctor or hospital, including quickly identifying and isolating cases of Kobe and providing optimal treatment, are a priority. The chain of transmission can be traced by identifying the people the infected patient has been in contact with. People suspected of having Kobe 19 should then be isolated and tested, starting the cycle again. The development of a vaccine for COVID-19 is an urgent public health priority. Now you can appreciate the importance of getting the annual seasonal flu vaccine. I hope you enjoyed this video about COVID-19. The moral of the story is that it's important to protect yourself, but also to protect others by following the measures we just mentioned. Stay healthy, and thank you.