 and scrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I'm interviewing Divyan Choo Dubey with the Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. We will be discussing a paper published in Neurology titled, Clinical Insights into Casper 1 and Casper 1 Contact and One Complex Autoimmune Nodopathies. Good afternoon, Div. Thank you for joining us today. Thank you for inviting me to contribute to this podcast. I'm looking forward to discussing our work. So Div, you and your fellow researchers sought to characterize the clinical phenotypes of a less common form of autoimmune neuropathy. Before we dive into the details of these fascinating nodopathies, could you give a snapshot into how this paper can help in their practice when they're treating patients with diseases that may initially present looking like AIDP or CIDP? One of the focuses of this paper was to help the clinicians or managing neurologists recognize features that might help them diagnose patients with AIDP or CIDP diagnosis coming to their clinic, coming to their ER, coming to their inpatient service, of autoimmune nodopathies. First and foremost, sort of clinically suspect this and send that required antibody testing so that these diagnoses can be confirmed. In everyday practice, we see patients with sort of progressive weakness, sensory loss, elevated protein and electrophysiologically evidence of demyelination. And then the initial suspicions are being AIDP or CIDP, depending on the time course of progression of these diseases. But a small subset of these cases can end up having a slightly different disease mechanism driven by these IgG4 mediated antibodies, example being Casper1, or patients who have antibodies to Casper1 contactant complex. Even though their initial presentation can be somewhat similar, the response to treatment can be different and in some cases the long term outcomes can be different. So that's why it is important to recognize this disease entity. These patients often have clues or red flags that can help us think about these things specifically in relation to Casper1 contactant complex, more rapid progression, more striking sensory attacks, your neuropathic pain. And most importantly, the lack of response to IVIG can be some of those clues to potentially think about the antibody testing in these particular patients. So as a reminder, Dave, most of our AAN podcast listeners are probably not peripheral nerve subspecialists. Some of us may have never even heard of autoimmune nodopathies before. Could you give us some background information in general on what autoimmune nodopathies are? It's a bit of a shift on how we think about immune mediated neuropathies. Traditionally, with thought of neuropathies, autoimmune neuropathies being either a demyelinating autoimmune neuropathy or an exonal autoimmune neuropathy like some of our vascular-tych neuropathies. But a lot of the work done sometime back by our European colleagues, specifically Dr. Uncini and sort of collaborators, actually defined this entity of autoimmune nodopathy initially based on electrophysiology, showing that in a subset of patients, there could be evidence of conduction failure at the level of the nodes. And subsequently, there was this sort of outburst of various antibodies, ported by multiple different groups, to proteins that are expressed at the level of the nodes. These proteins are proteins such as Casper 1, contactin 1, neurofascins that anchor the myelin loop to the axon. And in some ways, protect the sodium-potassium channels, which are sort of at that region, that help in propagation of the impulses. So when antibodies are being produced to these proteins, these in turn cause a dysfunction at the level of the node, causing exoglial junction becoming more disrupted, potentially leaking of currents instead of long-tune propagating currents, and then failure of conduction in the process. These in turn manifest as weakness, as sensory laws, as sensory attacks here in many of these patients. If you think of these entities, even though they can look a lot like CIDP, histopathologically or immunologically, mechanistically, they are not CIDP. Even on biopsies of these patients, you don't see macrophage mediated demyelination, you don't see onion bulbs, suggesting these are distinct disease entities that is also reflected in the updated CIDP diagnostic criteria, where they're not considered CIDP or even a CIDP variant in those modern guidelines. So they're different in the way that the immune system and where the immune system is attacking the function of the nerve, basically. So clinically, do they differ in any meaningful way? Can you look at these patients, examine these patients, get reflexes on them, or nerve conductions or EMGs that look different somehow than the classic CIDP or AIDP case? There is a considerable overlap, and there are some neurofaction and contactant cases I've seen in my clinical practice, where when I initially saw them, it was very hard to tell this is definitely a norepathy and, versus sort of a more traditional CIDP. But there are certain clues or red flags in terms of signs and symptoms that can guide us in this direction. One interesting feature that I've seen in many of the norepathy cases is presence of severe sensory ataxia out of proportion to sometimes the weakness that these patients have, specifically in relation to Casper-1 or Casper-1 contactant complex antibodies, rapid progression, more rapid progression than we typically expect in the CIDP case, but sometimes some of these patients falling in that SAIDP zone, and presence of severe neuropathic pain could be those other features. In relation to neurofaction, some of the features that make me think about neurofaction, or 155 by GG4 autoimmunorapathy are presence of tremors, some subtle dysarthria. Many of these neuropathy patients also have autonomic dysfunction, which is not a typical feature of CIDP. And in relation to contactant, and some of these features we've seen even in contactant Casper-1 complex antibody mediated cases, some patients have a disease pathology potentially at the level of the sensory roots. So these patients don't have abnormal EMGs. The way to find the demyelinating electrophysiology is by doing somatosensory work potentials, and these are the patients which end up getting classified as chronic immune sensory polyrhealopathy. So that's another clinical feature that often makes me think about autoimmunorapathy, and specifically in relation to contactant-1 antibodies, presence of membranous glomerulonephroxenotide, autoimmunorapathy in a patient presenting with a CIDP or AIDP feature is another really, really important clue. So in many of these patients nowadays, when I'm seeing patients with a suspected or acquired demyelination in my peripheral nerve clinic, autoimmunorology clinic, I'm starting to do urine protein testing, which is not something on my radar before I started working in this area of autoimmunorapathy. And then the other thing which is useful is if you're seeing patients classified as a refractory CIDP or patients refractory to IVIG, that could be another very useful clue. Some of those patients with so-called refractory CIDP may end up having things like poem syndrome, but autoimmunorapathy is a very important differential to consider in those cases. So in a good chunk of cases, you may not be able to distinguish it, but there is a considerable proportion where thinking about these clues, such as sort of the atypical presentations that we talked about, our atypical response to IVIG can help diagnose these patients. Those are some good pointers on maybe a way to differentiate these things. So, Div, let's go into specifics of the phenotypes that you're able to analyze for the different types of no-dopathy presented in this paper. Please tell us what you discovered about the phenotypes when evaluating the cases with Casper-1 and Casper-1-Contact-1 complex IgG no-dopathy. One of the important things to remember is among the various autoimmunorapathy biomarkers that we know of, these are probably the least common, Casper-1 and Casper-1-Contact-1 complex antibodies. And that's one of the reasons why we needed to do a multi-center study, including multiple different centers to kind of capture the number of cases to delve deeper into phenotypes and clinical outcomes. And this was very well led by our first author, Navin Parmasivan, who did a lot of legwork and sort of hard work to put this study together. He also did careful clinical characterization of these cases, as well as electrophysiology. So, one of the things specifically in relation to Casper-1 IgG no-dopathy that we were able to understand was these patients tend to have a more rapid progression compared to other typical CIDP cases. They tend to have sensory symptoms preceding the onset of weakness. Many of these sensory symptoms include severe neuropathic pain. So, that's a very important clue if you're seeing sort of a patient being sent for CIDP evaluation, who's rapidly going downhill, has severe neuropathic pain and is refractory to IVIG. Casper-1 is one of the differentials, one of the antibodies that we should consider testing. The Casper-1-Contact-1 complex neuropathies, they tend to have similar to Casper-1, considerable overlap with some of our CIDP cases, but they tend to have slightly higher frequency of sensory attacks here as one of the sensory presentations. Some of these patients do have that CISP or chronic immune sensory-political apathy presentation, so that I had mentioned about it, we've seen in contact in one case as well. And specifically in thinking about long-term disability, when we compared it to other more common neuropathies like neuro-fashion, so patients with these complex antibodies or possibly even some of the Casper-1 patients tend to have worse or greater long-term disability. Again, this is a retrospective study, some of those long-term outcomes may be defined by when the treatment was started, how aggressively the patients were treated, but it's sort of a good starting point for us to start building data for these rare autoimmune neuropathies. For my brain, what I picked up there, and please let me know if I'm somewhat correct on some of the key features, profound sensory ataxia, maybe a higher amount of pain associated with it than you would see in a typical CIDP case. And then could you kind of round that out, just like one, two, three, four? I completely agree, higher amount of sensory ataxia, disproportionate neuropathic pain, progressing rapidly, not responding to IVIG. Those are the more sort of traditional four things if you have to kind of think about in our CIDP case, to consider autoimmune neuropathy testing or Casper-1 contactant complex testing. Perfect, thank you, Div. So did you find that these differences are significantly distinctive, that you could recommend clinical pearl beyond those three or four things that we just discussed that would help them to land on the correct diagnosis earlier with their patients? Those features can help guide antibody testing, but ultimately, the confirmation of the final diagnosis requires us to send for antibodies in these cases to kind of bring it sort of all together. In my current clinical practice, if I'm seeing CIDP patients more and more, I'm starting to send for these antibodies with any of the features which I talked about being present. Though these individually, these antibodies are rare as a group, they end up being 10 to 20% or in some demographics even higher of the entire cohort of CIDP. So it's important for us to consider these entities in our patients with CIDP or IDP and utilize some of the clinical pearls that we have identified in our study and others have reported in other autoimmune neuropathy studies to guide the testing for the antibodies. I can add that why is it important for us to consider it is because the treatment differs. The treatment in these patients is not IVIG. The treatment in these patients which has been shown to be beneficial in our study as well as others is depletion of antibody producing B cells through medications such as Rituximab where initiation of these treatments can bring about relatively early recovery and significant recovery in the disability accrued through these antibody mediated diseases. So why do you think it is that Rituximab is effective in these cases whereas IVIG is not? We're looking at these disease modifying therapies. So should this make us consider shifting more towards other things in our regular cases because if we're going to catch all of our peripheral neuropathies is Rituximab also effective for CIDP for instance. So do you think this will make for a shift in and how we're treating all of these cases or should it just be for the neodopathies? I think it comes down to the underlying immunopathologic mechanism. Many of these neodopathies are mediated by IgG4 antibodies and IgG4 antibodies behave differently where they do not necessarily act through complement mediated mechanisms. They are more direct antibodies which act by disruption of protein-protein interactions and sometimes IVIG mechanisms don't align as well with IgG4 mediated disease biology whereas Rituximab utilizes Rituximab as we have seen in other IgG4 diseases such as muscmiastinia, depleting the CD20B cell upstream and reducing the antibody production, the pathogenic antibody production aligns much better with IgG4 mediated diseases and this has been reported in our study we are discussing but also in our prior autoimmune neuropathies studies in neuro-fashion, contactant as well as studies by our colleagues in Europe as well. The CIDP is a bit more challenging question because firstly the disease biology for what is considered CIDP is maybe different than autoimmune neuropathies or is likely different than autoimmune neuropathies and that's why now autoimmune neuropathies are not considered as CIDP or not included in the CIDP diagnostic criteria. Also some of the recent evidence suggests that we may not be able to use Rituximab in everything which looks like an acquired autoimmune demyelinating electrophysiology profile. A recent study published in Brain evaluating Rituximab in CIDP patients who were maintained on immunoglobulin therapy showed there was not a significant difference in reduction of relapses of clinical worsening with Rituximab compared to placebo over 12 months. So that sets up those are important findings and it tells us that Rituximab is not broadly effective on all CIDP patients and a sort of a high level of evidence does not currently support routinely using Rituximab in negative CIDP. So in antibody defined autoimmune neuropathy cases my go-to regimen is Rituximab in some of the CIDP cases without antibodies. It is in the more typical CIDP cases without antibodies. Rituximab is not currently universally considered effective and should be more selective in its use looking for some other potential clinical science or clinical pearls before selecting that as an agent in IVIG refractory cases. Yeah and that just highlights how important it is that we don't take little bits of information and try to broadly apply it to all of our patients because whenever we listen to these kinds of information we're always thinking about oh that patient may have fit in this category that patient may have fit in this category and then all of a sudden people may mistakenly start treating every case with Rituximab instead IVIG and failing and so that's why we got to use this research specifically for what it's useful for but thank you so much David. This is highlighting a lot of important things at the understanding of these things and also how we can apply it appropriately in the clinical realm. So where should the research on no-dopathy go from here? I think there are few really practical next steps that would directly improve patient care. One as you pointed out biomarkers have really really helped and defined our field in sort of focusing on subsets of cohorts like even though some patients may look like CIDP but they may not have CIDP and that's where using of the use of these auto immunosupport the antibodies has actually helped us cater treatment specifically to the underlying mechanism and that's sort of the first thing that we need to do is have a better standardization of antibody testing for these red conditions. Antibody testing which is highly specific so we don't have erroneous results because that can lead to treatments that can potentially be harmful for some patients instead of them being on the right kind of treatment they may end up being on medications like Rituximab like we just talked about. These are cell surface antigens where antibodies themselves are pathogenic so the binding may be two of conformational epitopes so potentially utilizing essays like cell-based essays or live cell-based essays like flow cytometry based essays may in our experience provides much higher specificity as well as sensitivity so potentially broader utilization of more traditionally standardized techniques and across labs is going to be is one of the important things that we should focus on. Secondly we need more prospective longitudinal studies where we follow patients over time to answer important questions like how long to treat these patients when can I stop immunotherapy what kind of biomarkers such as antibody titers or transition from zero positivity to zero negativity or persistent zero positivity can that help define the duration of treatment or the risk of relapse in some of these patients so that's another area sort of that we need to focus on and going beyond some of the retrospective studies like ourselves to study these rare conditions prospectively and along those lines we need not only biomarkers for these diagnosis which we have now with these neuropathy biomarkers but we also need biomarkers for prognosis treatment escalation treatment continuation etc and then lastly we need to move away at some stage from pan immunosuppression so what rotexamab does is destroys all B cells expressing CD20 if there is a way we can start focusing on selective depletion of the pathogenic antibodies or potentially pathogenic B cells an example is some medications which are currently in research called cell dags which can selectively deplete one particular antibody that could be the next step for clinical care or sort of more patient-centered individualized treatment for these patients with neuropathy where we know in most of the scenario cases the disease is driven by the underlying antibody which these patients have so sort of focusing moving from our current practice to more precision therapy is something that our research hopefully will will focus on as as we learn more and more about these diseases so the future lies in better assays better longitudinal monitoring better relapse reduction and more precise mechanism based therapies yeah it looks like we have a lot to learn about these in the near future which is exciting because there's there appears to be a lot of momentum with it and that's great for our patients for sure so div can you give us a last summary of what we've learned from your paper and how to apply it to our everyday clinical practices autamine oedopathy is including casper 1 IgG related diseases are even though uncommon are very important for us to kind of diagnose and suspect in our patients with the IDPC IDP they can masquerade or look very similar to patients with a IDP or CIDP they can have similar demyelating electrophysiology in many of the patients and elevated protein suggestive on laying autoimmune mechanism but they can behave differently both in terms of their acute presentation as well as in some cases long-term disability and the most important thing is they behave differently to treatments they don't respond to IVIG they're the treatment for these subset of cases with zero positive cases of autamine oedopathy ends up being neurotoxymab so the key clinical signals that we talked about are the clinical sort of findings that should make us think about these oedopathy are rapid progression presence of severe sensory ataxia sensory symptoms preceding motor deficits including sensory ataxia specifically in casper 1 cases presence of neuropathic pain disproportionate to some of the motor features especially very early on in the disease and then in terms of treatment refractedness to IVIG so these clues can help us recognize some of these patients relatively early in the disease course and allow us to start them on the right kind of therapies and prevent disability accrual from these rare but in some cases really really severe neuropathies thank you so much for your time today div and for sharing your knowledge with us i've been speaking with div yanche dube about his paper titled clinical insights into casper 1 and casper 1 contact and one complex autoimmune oedopathy thank you alexa it was a pleasure to be here this is stacy clardier podcast editor if you've enjoyed the podcast please take a few moments to subscribe rate and review the neurology podcast through apple podcast google podcast spotify or wherever you listen and remember you can always head to neurology dot org backslash podcast for our full list of past episodes where you can also search by keyword in your podcast app for any neurology specific topics you want to learn about