! This is Jose Merino, editor-in-chief of the Neurology family of journals. The Neurology podcast provides practical information to neurologists and other clinicians to help them provide better care for their patients. Thanks for listening and have a great week! Hello and welcome! This is Justin Abadamarco from the Cleveland Clinic and I'm here today with Romney Van Borst and Marjo van der Napp to discuss her article published in Neurology Consensus Based Expert Recommendation for Diagnosis and Clinical Management of Vanishing White Matter. Romney and Marjo both work for the Amsterdam University Medical Center in the Netherlands. Hello and welcome! Thank you so much! Thank you for having us! It's a pleasure! I'm so excited to talk about a disease that we don't think or know as much about and so excited to dive into this with you. Maybe we can start with talking a little bit about vanishing white matter disease. But is it who does it affect? Give us some idea of how we should be thinking about this in the clinic. It's a leukodystrophy and it's one of the more prevalent leukodystrophies and it's really a bad one. So it may present in patients at all ages but it most commonly presents in children below the age of six years. It leads to a neurological decline in death and it's caused by a defect in an enzyme EIF2B and EIF2B is a deep in biology. So it's conditional for the translation of DNA into proteins. So all proteins in the body need EIF2B in order to be produced and it's a central regulator of the cell stress response. It's a bad disease and it's deep in biology. Those are the messages. And I hear some other important things. I think these are themes we've talked about in a podcast before. It affects patients of all ages. So we can't just think about it at that neonatal or early pediatric stage. Though obviously a little more common in that age group and the other element here is something a little more unique, the stress response. That's not something we hear and talk about as often. Can you tell us a little bit about that element? The stress response is a protective response of the body to help us cope with things like fever, viral infections, starvation, oxygen deprivation. So it's a beneficial response in finishing work matter. The defect is right in the heart of the cell stress response and that makes it it's dysregulated. And I think that also explains the stress sensitivity of the patients. The patients decline when there is a stressor. And is that usually a clue to the diagnosis? Is this going to help that clinician on the front lines making this diagnosis? That's something we usually see a little later in that disease. I'm an MRI person. For me, MRI is first. But the comradial disease, you also can have this stress-provoked decline. I want to see an MRI of the brain and that helps immensely in establishing the right diagnosis. What do you see on the MRI that would help us can lead again, maybe a little more specifically to the vanishing white matter element? What's typically seen in lucidistrophages is of course the two hyper intensity of the cerebral white matter. That's also seen in vanishing white matter. So that doesn't help very much. But in vanishing white matter, the flare images show that part of the white matter is dark, indicating rarefaction, cystic decline. And that's also what lent the disease its name. You can see on flare that the white matter is vanishing. And that aspect of MRI is extremely helpful in establishing a diagnosis. And for this reason, we advocate as lucidistrophy experts that flare is part of the standard imaging protocol, also in children below the age of one, because some radiologists or many radiologists feel that flare should not be done in very young children because it's not very useful. But for the diagnosis of vanishing white matter also in children under the age of one, it's crucial. The unique feature to this disease is the cystic appearance on MRI. Flare helping us identify that signal similar to CSF. Is there anything else on MRI that would say, oh, I need to be thinking about vanishing white matter disease? Yeah, it's the way the cystic decline occurs. Like in mitochondrial disease, you also have cystic decline. And in Alexander disease, you may have cystic decline. But for instance, in mitochondrial disease, the cysts are well delineated. Whereas in vanishing white matter, it's like the white matter of the brain is melting away. And you just see tissue strands left behind, which are appearing vascular tissue strands. So for me, it looks very typical. We worked on the disease in the 90s, and we did, at that time, genetic linkage. We found the genes for vanishing white matter, and I had included something like 35 patients based on MRI findings. And we, MRI had made no mistake. MRI is really great in diagnosing vanishing white matter. Yeah, it's a helpful clue that one, we need to be thinking about genetic diseases in general. Because it's a little difficult, even just based on a cystic appearance, I heard a couple other genetic diseases that could be there, like Alexander's disease. And so making sure that we're thoughtful about encompassing that, but at least thinking about vanishing white matter disease. And so we have that clinical suspicion. Could you talk to us a little bit about how these patients will present? I know we have a wide age span. So talk to us maybe about these younger patients and maybe some older patients. Typically, we see in the younger patients that they often present with an episode of rapid decline. Then they come to the hospital, which is, for example, triggered by fevers. We also see that these patients have coordination problems, ataxia, and these were mainly symptoms in childhood. But if we look at the adult onset, we see that these patients mainly have cognitive decline or even behavioral issues. So these are actually distinct phenotypes. So some rather nonspecific symptoms, nothing that would clue us in. But there's really specific, there's stress response, which I think we're using stress in the broadest sense possible, because it sounds like medications can do it, environmental triggers. Could you talk about how that looks in clinic and when patients are presented to the hospital? As you said, certain medications or fecal infections or monahedra or even routine surgical procedures can lead to a neurological decline, very fast neurological decline, but they can also lead to coma or even premature death. And I think around 80% of these patients actually experience such an episode during their lifetime, which is quite a high number. And this also makes it quite difficult to predict the disease scores. Although, as we said, age of onset is a good predictor of disease score. So what we typically see is that the earlier the onset, the more severe the disease progression. But it's also important because of the stress sensitivity in vanish, what better that health care professionals realize what families are dealing with when they enter an emergency room, because what may look like a routine infection can actually be life threatening in the context of vanish. And perhaps, Romy, you can dwell a little bit. You did a whole study on drugs because drugs may activate the self-stress response and be dangerous for vanish. What about that? Yeah, so we indeed looked at different types of drugs that may activate the integrated stress response. And we know from some patients that they actually come out worse after anesthesia, so after surgical procedures. And we found out during other studies that typically inhalation anesthetics are particularly of concern and that these should be avoided. So in children, mostly safer for rain is used around the world. And I've seen patients decline just after anesthesia for an MRI and they came out bad. And I knew that we were going to do a trial in the vanishing matter and I knew I needed anesthesia for the MRIs. But I also knew that parents were not going to go along with me because they know that anesthesia may provoke decline. So I went to the pediatric anesthesiologist to ask what I should do. And he said, if you see that and it's most likely it's going to be safer for rain, and then I would go for probable. So I went back to my office and if you look on PubMed, for instance, you can find it. That safer for rain activates the self-stress response and that probable may inhibit the self-stress response. So that's why we also did a formal study, a preclinical study on the subject. And indeed it looks like inhalation anesthetics are the number one medications that should be avoided in vanishing matter. And I think you have a really nice table in your paper outlining the medications that we need to avoid because it's hard to memorize that. But at least knowing that this is a disease that we need to be a little bit more mindful about those inhaled anesthetics being one of them and how we navigate all the different procedures that could happen with these patients. So advocating on all nose lines. I also saw being really mindful about infections and trying to use antipyretic medications to prevent that. With these stress responses, like I'm thinking about are multiples gross as patients that can have recredestinous of symptoms that usually goes away in its own. Would you expect that same recovery in these patients that after that stress is removed that these patients usually recover over the coming days or weeks? Or is that not how these patients will go? Will they have permanent disability after these incidents? It really depends per patient. So we see patients that actually decline and lose some neurological functions and never gain those neurological functions again. But we also see patients that actually have an episode which is triggered by a very severe physical stressors and then these patients they present themselves. But after this episode they actually fully recover and for a long time they just remain stable or even asymptomatic. So it could be going both ways, so to say. So it can also lead to immediately, yeah, patients that passed away because of an episode, but it can also lead to fully recovery. And that's why it's so difficult to predict this disease. This disease is so hard on families. This is just this unpredictability. There's always this sort of damocles dangling above your head and it may fall and your child may go down today, tomorrow. It may not happen in the coming few years. But this unpredictability that the danger is there but you don't know when it will hit makes it very difficult for families. And I think acknowledging that with families is so important. I just wanted to take a step back though. So I think you could build a little bit of a story here. So vanishing white matter disease, a leukodystrophy, a devastating one, some nonspecific symptoms that can affect all age spans. Though we see it a little more common in our early in life. MRI features a little bit more unique though, not Hatho-nomonic, but the cystic structures that can form in a supertentorial white matter disease that should prompt us for genetic testing. And then this unique element due to the genetic mutation with these severe dysregulation of their stress response, some medications or infections can cause these really severe declines with permanent disability. Can we talk about the genetic piece though? Because how do we approach genetic testing in this disorder? What I will say is in patients with leukodystrophy present with rather nonspecific clinical features like spasticity or dexia. And then it's the MRI that helps you realize it's a leukodystrophy. And then in vanishing white matter, often the MRI is highly suggestive of the diagnosis and then you can start genetic analysis for confirmation. And then if you find two pathogenic variants in one of the EIF2B genes, then of course the diagnosis is confirmed. But the problem arises when you have one or two variants of known significance. And as I was explaining, there is no enzyme assay for EIF2B to show that activity is decreased. We have been working on a functional assay for EIF2B. Other labs have done that for decades and nobody has been successful in developing a reliable EIF2B assay. But this place is totally taken by MRI. So if you have variants of unknown significance, you go to the MRI and if the MRI is typical of vanishing white matter, we feel that the MRI validates pathogenicity of the variants and still the diagnosis is confirmed. And if the MRI is not compatible with vanishing white matter, then it disqualifies the variants and says that either the patient is only a carrier or the variants are not pathogenic. So I would say the diagnosis of vanishing white matter is DNA and MRI hand in hand. I think we all see the challenges of variants of unclear clinical significance, but I think interpreting tests in the context of the patient, that's what we do. And pairing with genetic colleagues is so important because these are not easy tests. I think we wish it was black and white, but it never is. So I think that's a helpful way to think about these cases. And then the most important thing, because we've talked about a lot of challenges. This disease is humbling to say the least, but it sounds like we have some real hope moving forward in the future with some clinical trials. Can we talk about what those look like and the strategies that we're employing to help these patients and their families? I must first be honest that as an audiologist, I for a very long time thought that we would be nowhere with treatment for vanishing white matter. It's a terrible disease. Patients are devastated sometimes really soon in months. The defect is deep in biology, so I was really pessimistic about that. So we looked at the cell stress response and understood that the cell stress response drives the disease in vanishing white matter. And then your whole view on the situation changes. And we realized that we could modulate different elements of the cell stress response. And then in preclinical models, we found evidence that it really changed the disease, impacted the disease. The first option was glenobens. Glenobens is an old antihypertensive drug, and it also targets the feedback loop in the cell stress response and indirectly activates EIF2B. And we found in preclinical models that it worked. And now we've just completed a trial of four years in vanishing white matter patients. Then pharmaceutical companies developed small molecules directly targeting EIF2B and activating it. And in preclinical studies, that also worked beautifully. And there are now multiple trials running on the EIF2B activators. And if you look at the cell stress response, you can even find more targets. And we tested those in preclinical models and find that actually everything you do about modulating the cell stress response has an impact on vanishing white matter. And so with actually, within a relatively short time, we came from nothing to do about this disease to, I would say, multiple options. So much hope for the future. I love that message of understanding the pathophysiology and allowing that to drive treatment. It's incredible. And we've seen that across neurological diseases, but Lugo distraves, I think it is. It's so hopeful and highlights the importance of making the diagnosis and making it correctly for our patients. Yeah, this laid back attitude that some of us have and thinking we don't need to rush because it's a very bad disease is not good anymore, because we need to treat patients as soon as we can to make sure that the damage is as limited as possible. Because in neurology, you really get back what you lost. So we are in a rush to diagnose patients. And then outside, I think your article also has some really practical approaches while the genetic testing is being employed and clinical trial enrollments going on. But there are other things that we can do. Simple things, rather simple, avoiding head trauma I saw, managing epilepsy or other comorbidities more general. I saw specifically ovarian insufficiency. Could you talk about some of those other strategies we should be thinking about if we're seeing those patients in clinic? Yes. So indeed, we talked a little bit about these stress sensitivity in vanish red matter. But I think awareness about this stress sensitivity in vanish red matter is extremely important to know for neurologists because you can avoid these physical stressors. So indeed, infections are the number one risk of an episode of rapid decline. So fever should be treated immediately with antibiotics, but also immunizations are really essential to reduce the infection risk. And we also talked a little bit about certain medications that should be avoided. And these are all for acute management of vanish red matter. But we also have some recommendations for the long term management of vanish red matter, which is more supportive and preventive focused on symptom control and risk reductions. So first, it's important that epilepsy is as treated as early as possible, as seizures are associated with worse outcomes. But secondly, we see also that a shortage of amino acids triggers the stress response, making it important for patients to maintain an adequate nutritional status. And as you said already, some female patients have ovarian insufficiency. So monitoring ovarian function and bone health are also important. And I think one of the key outcomes of this study was actually a patient management card with these recommendations in lay language so that patients can bring this card to consultations and present them in emergency settings so that also clinicians can make more rapid informed decisions. And it also supports more harmonious care when it actually matters to most. So this is also really important. I want to thank you for all of your work coming on the podcast. This is a paper that we can save and make sure we can reference in the future. And then talking more broadly about these local distribution, how we approach these white matter diseases. This is going to change a lot over the coming years. And we appreciate your leadership and discussions around it. Thank you so much for having us. It was a pleasure for us. It's also an honor because I do think that these recommendations matter much for both patients and neurologists, but sometimes finishing what matter is regarded as so rare. So why should we bother? But we have many rare disorders in the robot. And we would leave many patients and families alone. Thank you for drawing some extra attention to the subject. Yes, thank you so much for having us. Thank you. This is Stacy Clark of your podcast editor. If you've enjoyed the podcast, please take a few moments to subscribe, rate and review the neurology podcast through Apple podcasts, Google podcasts, Spotify or wherever you listen. And remember, you can always head to neurology.org, backslash podcast for our full list of past episodes, where you can also search by keyword in your podcast app for any neurology specific topics you want to learn about.