! This is Jose Merino, editor-in-chief of the Neurology family of journals. The Neurology podcast provides practical information to neurologists and other clinicians to help them provide better care for their patients. Thanks for listening and have a great week. Hello and welcome. This is Greg Cooper from the Norton Neuroscience Institute in Louisville, Kentucky. I'm speaking today with David Coglin from the University of California in San Diego about his paper in neurology, CSF Alpha Sinuclein Seed Amplification Assays and Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers in Dementia with Louis Bodies. David, welcome to the podcast. Thank you very much for having me. To begin with, I wonder if you can share just the central message in this paper. I think that there's two central messages for the paper. One is that Alpha Sinuclein Seed Amplification Testing is useful to confirm the presence of Alpha Sinuclein pathology in patients with suspected dementia with Louis Bodies. The second point is that having abnormal Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers is associated with a significantly worse cognitive progression in DLB. We can go back now to just a little more background. For many people, all of the different terms can get a little confusing. Do you mind giving us an overview of Louis Bodies Disease versus dementia with Louis Bodies Disease versus Parkinson's Disease Dementia? That's a good question. I think you're right to ask it because these terms are used somewhat variably. When I'm talking about these terms, I'm usually using DLB to describe the clinical phenotype of somebody presenting with significant cognitive impairment with visual hallucinations, Parkinsonism, REM sleep behavior disorder, cognitive fluctuations, and PDD for the dementia syndrome that comes after usually a couple years worth of motor progression in Parkinson's Disease itself. The term LBD, Louis Bodies Dementia, is often used to encompass both DLB and PDD because of the presumed underlying pathological entity that contributes to both when you look at these patients' brains who donate. We can take a look at them after autopsy under the microscope. When we talk about seed amplification assays, probably most of us are familiar with their use in prion disease, but that seems to be growing and is certainly a little bit different here. Can you explain those assays and how we should be using them right now? As you correctly pointing out that alpha-synuclein seed amplification assays, they're adaptations of the same type of technology that's used in prion disease testing, RT-Quick specifically, but essentially a biological sample gets placed in a bath wells that are full of monomers of a specific protein. And if the original sample contains a seed, a protein structure that's capable of inducing templating, it'll do that in the bath. And after repeated cycles of shaking and incubation, it allows the proteins to continue to fibrilize further until the mass of proteins becomes detectable, usually by thiophilavin fluorescence. This technique has been set up by multiple laboratories throughout the world at this point. And when they've done round robin studies, there's a very high rate of concordance between labs. It's been tested in clinically defined cohorts of people with Parkinson's disease and people with DLB and people with multiple systems atrophy, even Alzheimer's disease and other conditions too. But also very important to note that it's been tested in autopsy validated settings and is very sensitive and specific overall. And Alpha Cine Nuclein Seed Amplification Testing is currently available to be ordered in clinical practice, so we're seeing some more uptake in that space as well as research settings. And to be clear, we're talking about cerebrospinal fluid testing, correct? The preponderance of evidence that I'm talking about is really has to do with the cerebrospinal fluid platform, but you are absolutely correct that there are many efforts to try to adapt the same type of technology to other biofluids or other tissues. More specifically, a lot of effort in the skin and blood space anyway. Are these usually, at least in current practice, sent off to specialty labs or can we expect to see these in our local hospital labs? At the current time, Alpha Cine Nuclein Seed Amplification Assays are being performed in specialized laboratories. And in the clinical space, they're really being run only by one company right now called Amprion. Now, the study we're talking about today is, I guess, is or is part of the DLB Consortium Study. Say just a little bit about that, if you would. So the dementia with Lewybyte's Consortium Study is an NIH-funded prospective natural history and biomarker program that aims to enroll participants with clinically diagnosed dementia with Lewybyte's. And more recently, they've started to include participants with Parkinson's disease and cognitive impairment. And the goal is really to sequentially follow these people over time to better understand the natural history of dementia with Lewybyte's and Parkinson's disease dementia, but also to collect biosamples to assist in the development of objective biomarker testing that can help with diagnosis and tracking disease activity over time. And right now, there are nine academic tertiary care centers that contribute to the DLBC throughout the United States. Tell us about the main outcome measures that you're looking at or studying. So the DLBC has been collecting a number of different types of outcome measures related to motor, non-motor, and cognitive outcomes in DLB. The ones that have been most consistently and robustly collected include Montreal cognitive assessments, but there's other measures of cognition that are being collected. They collect data on Parkinsonism through the Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, which has multiple sub-scales that assess both non-motor and motor aspects of daily living as well as an objective scale for the Parkinsonism exam. But we're tracking other core features, including cognitive fluctuations, presence of visual hallucinations, and a subset of participants have had objective smell testing through the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test as well. In this particular report, we're really studying the co-presence of synuclein pathology and Alzheimer's disease pathology. Correct? That is correct. So describe what you found. So the first part of the study was really to examine how many of these participants who had been clinically diagnosed with DLB actually had positive synuclein SAA testing from these spinal fluid samples. And what we saw in this data set anyway was that number hovered around 70-ish percent anyway, meaning a good 30% of participants, of course, did not have synuclein seeding positivity from their spinal fluid. And that number was a little bit higher than I think that we expected. If you look at other literature with more highly curated participants, you do end up seeing somewhat higher rates of synuclein positivity. But even in this group of participants who had been assessed at tertiary care academic centers, there were people who probably don't have significant synuclein pathology because they weren't testing positive using this really well-validated spinal fluid test anyway. And the second point was looking at rates of Alzheimer's disease co-pathology, both in the synuclein positive and negative group, is that pretty similar to a lot of previous work in other autopsy cohorts, is that about half of the synuclein positive participants also had abnormal Alzheimer's disease biomarkers. So mixed pathologies or co-pathologies common in TLV. Perhaps not surprisingly, though I hadn't thought about it, you did see a difference in the progression of motor symptoms between those that were positive and negative on your assay, correct? That's correct. In terms of alpha-synuclein seeding amplification results, the participants who had positive synuclein seeding worsened much faster in terms of their motor Parkinsonism over time, whereas the participants who were synuclein negative, they're probably a pretty heterogeneous group, but their motor Parkinsonism did not change very much over the course of the study. Maybe not surprising when you saw the mixed pathology, a synuclein and AD pathology from a cognitive standpoint, I believe those progressed more rapidly. Is that correct as well? That is absolutely correct. The mixed pathology group absolutely did much worse over time in terms of their mocha score changes over time. This is very similar to literature that's out there in autopsy validated studies as well, but now we have the ability to measure both of these biomarkers in live cohorts, so it's nice to be able to see some of that literature bearing out in this setting as well. I will admit I was a little bit surprised the number of synuclein negative patients that you saw, although maybe I shouldn't have been surprised. Thoughts on what is causing those symptoms, what's causing that DLB phenotype, if you will? When we see a person in clinic, of course, we're doing history and physical exam, and when we're looking for certain types of cognitive impairment and these other core features of motor Parkinsonism, visual hallucinations, cognitive fluctuations, REM sleep behavior disorder, these are sometimes challenging anyway to interview for, and a lot of people who are older have a little bit of motor Parkinsonism anyway. In this study, a little bit over two thirds of the synuclein negative group had abnormal Alzheimer's biomarkers, so it's entirely possible that a good chunk of those folks just had regular Alzheimer's disease. Some of them did have pretty significant motor Parkinsonism, so we wonder a little bit about other causes of motor Parkinsonism, like vascular Parkinsonism or even other atypical Parkinsonian syndromes potentially. These people are more likely to come up as synuclein negative. I think that the core idea though is that there may be other substrates, other pathological things that are going on in the background that can result in a person showing up to the office who has a lot of symptoms that look like DLB anyway, but may not be related to synuclein pathology underneath. That raises some good clinical questions. One other question before I get there. You mentioned in the paper that alpha-synuclein seed amplification assay has been illustrative in examining the prevalence and effects of Lewy body pathology in cognitively normal individuals as well as in Alzheimer's disease. I'm not sure I entirely caught that. Can you expound or elaborate on that? Let's start with Alzheimer's first anyway, which opens up a whole different set of questions. But yes, the same platform has been studied in Alzheimer's disease cohorts. The numbers are usually somewhere between 20 to 40% of people with Alzheimer's disease will have mixed pathology with synuclein present measured in the same way as was done here. Those people tend to do worse over time as well in terms of their cognitive progression when compared to people who have a pure Alzheimer's biomarker profile anyway. That is interesting in by itself. When I was talking about cognitively unimpaired people, I was thinking mostly about some European studies, two papers that got published back to back, one of which focused on cognitively unimpaired people. They also showed that people who were synuclein positive but cognitively unimpaired had greater rates of cognitive decline over time. Certainly a certain percentage of them went on to be diagnosed with Parkinson's disease or GLB later on as well. I wonder if this study would argue for more widespread use of biomarker assays in patients, at least those that are showing a GLB phenotype. Am I interpreting that correctly? I think that there is an argument to be made for applying these biomarker tests more than we're doing so far. But I do think that the ordering and interpretation of them has to be done a bit thoughtfully. For example, I guess that the core messages that like with Alpha-Synuclein C-Dampalification assays, this is a test that measures synuclein misfolding, which is indicative of pretty widespread Lewy body pathology. That doesn't necessarily give you a clinical diagnosis though. For example, if you had somebody in your clinic who had cognitive impairment and your main differential diagnosis was does this person have Alzheimer's or does this person have GLB? And you sent one of these tests. If it came back negative, that would be pretty helpful because this isn't going to be GLB because they really do expect synuclein to be positive in GLB participants anyway. The underlying substrate is something else. But if it comes back positive, you can say, okay, that's what I would expect in a patient who has dementia with Lewy bodies and underlying synuclein pathology, but we also know that a good solid 30-ish percent of people with Alzheimer's pathology also have synuclein co-pathology or mixed pathology there. So a positive test doesn't necessarily give you a diagnosis anyway because you may still be dealing with either scenario. So that really raises interesting questions. I think if you had someone that presented clinically in a way that might fit with dementia with Lewy bodies or Alzheimer's disease, could you make an argument that we should check biomarkers for both? I think getting the full biomarker panel, at least with the tools that are available now would help with prognostication and to a certain degree with diagnostics. But also what you're bringing up is because a lot of these biomarkers are really qualitative, abnormal or normal that will end up with people who have abnormal profiles for both things, abnormal synuclein aggregation and also abnormal Alzheimer's disease biomarkers. And I'm not totally sure where we're going to call the dividing line for DLB with AD mixed pathology versus AD with synuclein mixed pathology. So more studies are going to be needed there to really tell if there's a difference and if so where and how can we figure that out anyway. I think there's an argument to be made. It tells you if there's pathology, but it doesn't tell you what pathology is driving the clinical phenotype. I actually love that statement. I think that's perfect anyway. When we've looked at synuclein amplification positivity and other cohorts of things like PSP, for example, the literature would suggest that there is a certain number of people who have what looks like PSP who are synuclein positive. And it's the same type of idea is that some of those patients are misdiagnosed and synuclein is driving the presentation, but some of them do have underlying PSP pathology and that's the main driver of what's going on. And they happen to have a little bit of synuclein co pathology or mixed pathology that is able to be picked up with this test. So it argues for the continued development of testing for other things that are majorly clinically significant. It gets to a difficult problem for us really in the Alzheimer's field when we think about anti-amyloid therapies. We start to pretend that people have pure Alzheimer's disease when in fact very often it's mixed pathologies. And then we're left with trying to sort out what is the driving pathology that then in turn would help dictate our treatment, I believe. But that may be a future question to answer. No, but it's a very important one. This debate has been had and continues to be ongoing in the dementia with Lewy bodies and even Parkinson's disease space as what is the role, is there a role for anti-amyloid therapies in Lewy body disease where there is AD copathology? And the answer is we don't know yet. And hopefully there will be clinical trials that get started fairly shortly to help answer that question. You're right, it's a complicated one because we're not totally sure how these processes may interact and how they may change with the introduction of anti-amyloid therapies also. One more question. What do you think is the appropriate place for biomarkers within clinical practice for the neurologist? It's a good question and it's an evolving field for sure and likely to change as more literature gets published. I think that it's very appropriate to use these biomarkers to confirm the presence of synuclein pathology in a clinically suspected syndrome. But I do think that the foundation of our judgment for ordering and interpretation of results still has to be the history and physical and what we think is going on with the patient. And because alpha-synuclein C-dampification assays are so sensitive for synuclein pathology, especially at the limbic and neocortical stage of disease, and also because they're just high rates of mixed pathology and a lot of neurodegenerative diseases, that we need to interpret these results judiciously and always in the context of the clinical scenario that we are faced with when we're working with patients in clinic. I think that's really well said and good advice. Thank you, David, for joining us on the podcast. Again, it's been our pleasure to hear from David Coughlin about his paper in Neurology, CSF Alpha Synuclein C-dampification assays and Alzheimer's disease biomarkers in dementia with Lewy Bottice. This is Stacey Clark to your podcast editor. If you've enjoyed the podcast, please take a few moments to subscribe, rate and review the Neurology podcast through Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen. And remember, you can always head to Neurology.org, backslash podcast for our full list of past episodes, or you can also search by keyword on your podcast app for any Neurology-specific topics you want to learn about.