 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School. We're talking about her exciting work on cutting-edge genetic testing for infantile epilepsies. So, Alyssa, welcome to the podcast. Hi, Holly. Thank you so much. I really appreciate the invitation to be here and talk about our work today. Of course. Now, in your study, to put it very simply, you looked at patients with epilepsy onset in the first year of life who had already had some form of genetic testing, and you reanalyze that later. What is so important about this work you're doing? The most important takeaway is that for individuals, in our case, we looked at infants with unexplained epilepsy. Even if they have had some form of genetic testing that has been negative or non-diagnostic, that doesn't mean that they don't have an underlined genetic cause that explains their epilepsy, and that we learn so much more information over time, both as we improve on the scientific side with understanding different changes in our DNA that cause disease and on the clinical side, as patients' phenotypes evolve, that it's important to keep in mind that new analysis and genetic testing in the future can still identify a genetic cause for patients. And what did you find when you were reanalyzing specifically these patients in your cohort? So, this is a study that has been ongoing for about four years now, and it's across four international sites in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Australia. And our goal has really been to try and enroll every infant under 12 months old who presents with unexplained seizures to one of our sites, and then perform a genetic test called rapid genome sequencing, which is the most comprehensive clinical genetic testing that's currently available. We have a pretty good diagnostic yield from that clinical rapid genome sequencing, around 43 or 44% diagnostic yield. So, for every 100 infants that we test, about 43 of them receive a genetic diagnosis at this point within a few days to weeks. But that still means that the majority of these infants who we presume based on having imaging and findings that don't show evidence of an acquired cause, we presume they still have an underlying genetic cause. And so, we took the genome sequencing data from those infants who were negative or non-diagnostic on the initial genome sequencing, and then we analyzed it in a research setting about a year after the initial genome sequencing. And what we found was that for about 5% of those infants, we were able to identify genetic diagnoses, either because we were able to look at variant types that are a little bit more complicated, and perhaps were difficult for the clinical labs to identify, or because we had new scientific or clinical information about the patients, or about a particular disease gene association and epilepsy that allowed us to make those diagnoses. And importantly, all 5% of those diagnoses, which was nine infants in our study out of 176 that we analyzed, there were clinical impacts of getting that new genetic diagnosis for the infants and their families. So, all the patients had short read genome sequencing done initially. Now, is that something that is widely available everywhere and is being clinically done for infants with seizures? There are a couple of different genetic testing options for infants, I would say, any individual with unexplained seizures. Short read genome sequencing is currently the broadest or most comprehensive clinical genetic testing option. And essentially, what it means is the genome sequencing part is referring to sequencing every base pair in the human genome. And the short read part is referring to the fact that the sequencing is done in short segments. So, you're sequencing generally a couple hundred base pairs of DNA at a time, and then you're putting it all together for the analysis. A lot of folks might have heard of exome sequencing. This is a similar form of sequencing, but instead of sequencing every base pair in the human genome, we're only sequencing the exonic regions that code for proteins. And this accounts for about one to two percent of the human genome. Most of our knowledge right now about changes in our DNA or variants that are associated with epilepsy are in those exonic regions. And so, exome sequencing will often capture most of these genetic diagnoses. But there have been several studies both from our group and others that have showed that there's an additional five to ten percent yield from doing genome over exome sequencing, because it's a little bit broader and covers that other 98 percent of the genome that we continue to learn more information about. Right now, I would say exome sequencing, particularly for early onset epilepsy. So, in the infantile period or in the first few years of life, has a pretty good coverage actually by payers in the United States, insurance companies or institutionally, depending on the patient context. And what we're seeing locally at Boston Children's Hospital is that we're able to get exome sequencing covered for almost all of these patients with either public or private insurance. Genome sequencing is a little bit newer in terms of being a clinically available test. And so, we don't have as much coverage for genome sequencing right now, but I would say particularly for infants who are critically ill, whether in an intensive care unit, or there's a growing number of payers who now are offering coverage for it, particularly if the infant had limited or negative testing beforehand. So, just to make sure I understand then, this short-read genome sequencing that was done as the initial test in these patients is actually more in-depth than even exome sequencing. And it sounds like it was actually returning quickly. It returned in a couple of weeks rather than a couple of months, as is usually the case. So, I just want to clarify that is something that is clinically available to all hospitals. We're seeing infantile epilepsy is where we can now get this short-read genome sequencing done. So, you're correct that the genome sequencing is looking even more depth than the exome sequencing. Both exome and genome sequencing can be offered either on a rapid or a non-rapid or routine basis. And it depends on the context what will be approved. I would say that in most large academic centers in the United States, if an infant with epilepsy is critically ill in an intensive care setting, you're able to access one of those tests, either rapid exome or rapid genome sequencing for infants who present to a neurology floor, whether not necessarily in an intensive care unit or if they're presenting to an outpatient clinic. It's generally hard to get the rapid testing, but the routine testing in many places is doable, at least for exome sequencing. And there's a growing ability to get genome sequencing, depending on the kind of sequencing vendor that's used. The routine exome or genome sequencing can take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months to return. One thing too that we hope to do with a lot of our research studies on genetic testing in epilepsy is that we're hoping that the research findings will actually provide evidence to payers to help expand coverage for exome and particularly genome sequencing. And we have seen that, I will say, in the neonatology space in terms of expansion of inpatient coverage for these rapid tests more broadly. And we're hoping that some of these more disease-specific papers, in this case looking at infantile epilepsy, can help expand coverage for these populations, as well as older populations of children and even adults with epilepsy, by showing that there's a high diagnostic yield, but that there's also high clinical utility or usefulness from having these genetic testing results in a relatively timely manner. Now, to bring it back to the clinical scenario and back to your research, in your study, you were using research methods at this point to reanalyze the genome and find some new information. However, it is also known in clinical practice that if we had done genetic testing, however many years ago, it is useful in a lot of cases to have it reanalyzed. Putting it into a clinical picture now with your new research, if you're seeing a pediatric patient in clinic who had a history of infantile epilepsy, but maybe now they're eight years old, they had that genetic testing in the past, it was unrevealing, when and how should we be retesting our pediatric patients when we're seeing them in clinic? So if you see a patient in clinic who initially developed epilepsy as an infant that maybe had some genetic testing and now doesn't have a diagnosis, I think there are a couple of questions to ask to try to figure out what is the best next step forward. First, what genetic testing did they previously have and when did they have that testing? And then second, what is their current clinical presentation and how has that evolved over time since their initial presentation as an infant? Traditionally, the initial testing sent for individuals with epilepsy has been an epilepsy gene panel. So these panels will often look at a few dozen to maybe a few hundred genes that have been associated with epilepsy. And then particularly if the patients maybe have some syndromic or dysmorphic features, there might also be a chromosomal microarray that's sent. And that's looking for bigger changes in pieces of chromosomes. If that's the case that their prior testing was fairly limited in scope to a gene panel or a chromosomal microarray, then regardless of how their presentation has evolved, should ideally try to get a broader genomic sequencing test at this point like exomer genome sequencing, both because that looks over a larger region of the genome, at least at all of the genes or at the entire genome, and because we just know so much more every year about genes that are associated with epilepsy, and there's a relatively high chance that you'll identify an underlying genetic cause. On the other hand, if this is a patient who previously has had either exome or genome sequencing, if they've previously had exome sequencing, you can either consider trying to get genome sequencing, which is a little bit more comprehensive, that is going to depend essentially on whatever insurance the patient has and if their insurance will approve in a lot of cases that may not currently be possible, although we hope there'll be expanded coverage in the future. And so in those cases, we'd recommend trying to do a clinical reanalysis of the exome data. Depending on the sequencing vendor where the exome sequencing was originally performed, a lot of vendors will even offer an initial one free reanalysis that can be clinically done with an updated report. And I'd say if genome sequencing was performed as the initial test, there currently isn't anything really more comprehensive than that available. And so then we'd recommend trying to see if you can get a reanalysis of that genome sequencing. Generally, particularly if we're doing a reanalysis in the clinical setting, it often makes sense to wait about a year or so or more before trying to do that reanalysis from the initial sequencing test. And this is for two reasons. One is that it's really helpful if there are any new clinical features or changes in the patient's course that the clinician who really knows the patient's the best can provide to the sequencing lab, they're able to take that information and it helps them with their reanalysis and potentially identifying new genetic causes. And then the second reason why time can be helpful between the initial genetic test and the reanalysis is that we just learn a lot more about both the genes that may be associated with epilepsy, as well as specific variants or changes in DNA in those genes that are associated with epilepsy. And then the last thing I'll add is that in a lot of cases, all of this takes time and resources and so you might not be able to send reanalysis on every patient that you're seeing who's previously had exome or genome sequencing. And we'd suggest in those cases prioritizing those patients with unexplained epilepsy who have severe phenotype, so a developmental and epileptic encephalopathy, or who evolved to have global developmental delay and intellectual disability, or if there has been a significant evolution of symptoms. For example, they're now having regression or having a nuanced movement disorder and having new more severe symptoms that could help pinpoint an underlying cause. When you're saying reanalysis, you mean they can reanalyze from the sample they've already have and you don't need to send a new sample and you just ask for a reanalysis? Yes, it is a completely non-invasive genetic testing method. And so when the lab or in our setting, the research team is performing reanalysis, we don't actually generate any new data. We go back to that genomic sequencing data that was generated from the initial sample that the patient sent in, and then we apply updated analysis pipelines, as well as taking any updated information from the scientific literature and from the patient's clinical presentation to help us look at and analyze the data again and see if anything different comes out. Are there also laboratories that are sending updates without you asking for a reanalysis? If, for example, if the patient had a variant of uncertain significance and then it becomes significant, do they automatically notify us or do we have to ask for a reanalysis? One of the hard parts right now is that reanalysis is not a fully automated process. And so it takes resources in the form of just human time and effort to do this reanalysis. And so it is not consistent at all right now that CLIA approved or clinical labs are able to do this on an automatic basis. Sometimes that will be the case, but it is not something that you can assume will happen. And in a lot of cases have to coactively reach out to get a variant reclassified either from, like you mentioned, a variant of uncertain significance to one that is pathogenic or likely pathogenic. But in some cases, also the opposite way, which can also provide some relief to the family if there was a variant of uncertain significance that now there's new evidence saying we actually don't think it's disease causing and it's going to be benign or likely benign. I hope in the future that as more papers come out showing the usefulness of reanalysis and as we're able to use AI and other features to help make this more automated, that it will become something that clinical labs are feasibly able to do just on a routine basis. Right now, understandably, it just still takes resources and effort on their part as well. And so it's difficult to do it for everyone automatically. And bringing that back to what you've done in your research, where you found these new diagnoses for the patients in the cohort and you mentioned that they were clinically relevant. Do you want to share some of the ways in which that was actually clinically important for these patients? Because that's really powerful to hear about the ways that it can really change and make an impact. One of the most common ways that we see an immediate impact is informing prognosis for these infants and their families. When I see these families clinically, which is generally in the neonatal intensive care unit, they really want to know why is my infant having seizures? And then what does the future look like? What does this mean for us? And that there is some degree of prognostic information that you can give just by a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy, but that if you have that precise genetic diagnosis, it can often provide a lot more information, particularly if it's a disorder where there's natural history studies or there's at least some literature on what other patients across a range of ages with that disorder have experienced. And so for eight out of nine of those infants, that was the case where we were able to provide some more specific information to their families about what the future might look like, what symptoms might develop, what they should look out for. And in a lot of cases, that also really helps with, for example, optimizing early intervention services in the United States and things like that to optimize their neurodevelopment. In a subset of cases, it can inform treatment or enrolling in clinical trials that have to do with precision therapies for a specific genetic condition, which we saw in a couple of cases. It often can have an impact on workup that's associated with an underlying genetic condition. So in about half of our cases, it either led to new workup in terms of referrals to sub specialists with lab testing and imaging studies, or importantly, you can send them to allow you to avoid unnecessary workup. For example, an infant is having to have a sedated MRI or undergoing a lumbar puncture is a big thing for those infants and their families. And so being able to avoid something like that can be really meaningful. In our population, we also will sometimes see that getting a genetic diagnosis can help inform goals of care for families, particularly if they're in an intensive care environment. And then in some cases, we have surprises where it actually makes a genetic diagnosis for a parent as well that wasn't necessarily suspected or known, and then can have direct clinical implications for the parent. I'll give one example. One of our participants was a male infant who initially presented with infantile spasms. He had brain imaging abnormalities. He had microcephaly and some evidence of aftrophy and delayed myelination and had global developmental delay, hypotonia, dystonia, and his initial genome sequencing was negative or non-diagnostic. In the research setting, we looked for a type of variant called a repeat expansion, a common example of a disorder associated with repeat expansions is fragile X syndrome. And we found a repeat expansion in a gene called ATXN2, which is associated with Spinosaur Bellary Ataxia type 2. It normally manifests in adults, but there have been a couple of reports that if there's a very high number of repeats, it can actually manifest in the infantile period with seizures. And by testing the parents, we were also able to diagnose one of the parents with Spinosaur Bellary Ataxia type 2 as well. And for this particular family, in addition to what we call ending the genetic diagnostic odyssey and providing an answer, it explains specific symptoms that the infant was having. They were able to avoid or repeat sedated brain MRI and informed ongoing goals of care. And then they also are actively now involved in clinical trials related to precision antisense oligonucleotide therapy development for this condition. And of course had implications for the parent who is diagnosed as well. That is really powerful. Thank you for sharing those examples. Before we go, was there anything else that you wish neurologists, especially adult neurologists, like myself knew about genetic testing in infantile epilepsy? Even for adult neurologists, really for anyone taking care of individuals with unexplained epilepsy, to really keep in mind that our hope is that genetic testing can become a standard part of the diagnostic workup. Once you've ruled out an acquired cause of epilepsy, and that across the age range, having genetic testing and making a genetic diagnosis can have implications for both clinical care, but also just sort of psychosocial impacts on the individuals and their families. So this is the idea of clinical utility where it impacts clinical care, but then also the personal utility that it can have on the patients and their caregivers. I also think it's important that although genetic testing can be complicated, and that it often can be ideal to be able to work with genetic counselors or clinical genetic specialists, families are generally really enthusiastic about getting this testing for their children. Anecdotally, we've had very few instances where families have not wanted to pursue this testing, and critically, as we see more and more precision therapies emerging in the coming years, the first step to being able to get to that is having a precision diagnosis or a genetic diagnosis. And so unless we try to do genetic testing as part of this diagnostic workup and advocate for payers to cover this testing, we're not going to be able to bridge to those precision therapies, which we all hope will have a huge improvement on outcomes in the coming years. What are the novel methods that your research is using to try to do this reanalysis that we don't currently have available? In our research, we used some methods that are currently clinically available and some that aren't, but that we hope that our paper and others help convince clinical labs to be able to incorporate into their clinical testing. One of the things that we did was that we performed analysis using advanced analysis pipelines that aren't currently used in clinical labs. For example, we were able to look for more complex or very tiny structural variants where pieces of chromosomes are moved around in different ways. We were able to look for repeat expansions where parts of the DNA are unstable, and you'll have expansions that can have damaging impacts on proteins. We were able to look for mosaic variants, which are variants that are present in only a subset of cells and can be more difficult to capture with clinical pipelines. I think over the coming years, all of these will get integrated into clinical testing, but it's variable with the regulations that clinical labs are under. They have to make sure that things are fully set and ready to go before they're part of a clinically accredited test. And so we have a little bit more ability and research to be on the cutting edge and hopefully demonstrate findings that help them get implemented into the clinical testing practice. We also were able to use complementary methods. So in several cases, for example, we used RNA sequencing and analysis to help provide further evidence for variants that we found by looking at the DNA sequencing and using that RNA sequencing evidence was what allowed us to either classify a variant that was of uncertain significance into one that was pathogenic or vice versa. Alissa, thank you so much for doing this exciting work and sharing with us today. Thank you so much, Holly. I love to being here today. And I also want to thank all of the co-authors who I worked with on this work across our four international sites, as well as the infants and their families who generously allowed us to use their data and participate in this research. For more details, you can find the full article, which is available in the March 10th issue of neurology that's titled Diagnostic Yield of Comprehensive Reanalysis after Non-Diagnostic Short Regenome Sequencing in Infants with Unexplained Epilepsy, where you can find it online at Neurology.org. This is Stacey Clark, your podcast editor. If you've enjoyed the podcast, please take a few moments to subscribe, rate, and review the Neurology podcast through Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen. And remember, you can always head to Neurology.org or our full list of past episodes, where you can also search by keyword on your podcast app for any neurology specific topics you want to learn about.