 and alfalfa. This is Jose Merino, Editor-in-Chief of the Neurology Family of Journos. The Neurology Podcast provides practical information to neurologists and other clinicians to help them provide better care for their patients. Thanks for listening and have a great week. Hi, this is Tisha Montief of the Neurology Podcast. I'm here with Andrew Hershey. Professor of Pediatrics and Director of the Division of Neurology at Cincinnati Children's and the Children's Headache Center. We're here talking about his new paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Feminacemap in Children and Adolescents with Epistotic Migraine. Thank you for inviting me, Tisha. Of course, we're going to have you on here. Congratulations on the space trial. It was quite exciting to have something that's been used in adults for several years to finally be available to children and adolescents. So before we talk about the details of Feminacemap, why don't we talk about the current evidence base for treatment of migraine in pediatric age groups and why the study was so important? One thing just as we think about it, migraines are disease across the ages. So often times we expect that things that should work in adults and improve and to be effective in adults in placebo-controlled studies should work in kids. That's been a challenge. Many of the medications that have been approved for adults have been tested in children and adolescents and not shown to be effective. And a large part of that is not due to the effectiveness of the drug, but the fact that the placebo catches up to the medication itself. And there's a lot of theories of why that might be one of the highest ones I have is the expectation response that children and adolescents who obviously on the internet all the time, they know about these drugs, they've seen ads for the drugs, and so they expect it to be work. And that I think drives up a placebo response. So we treat it, see the effectiveness matching the adults, but the placebo exceeding it. Interestingly, in the adults world, we're now seeing the placebo rate climb for them also. So there may be something more complicated going on than placebo itself in terms of expectation or response. That makes a lot of sense. So with all that in mind, how difficult has it been to prescribe patients, CGRP inhibitors? So both the CGRP monoclonal antibodies and the G-Pan as approved for adults for both prevention and in some cases, acute use in the G-Pan have been shown to be effective. But when we try to prescribe them for underage 18, oftentimes we run into roadblocks with significant requirements for pre-authorization from the insurance providers or Medicare and Medicaid. Sometimes the kids that are a little bit older, we can get in there. But as the kids get to a younger age, it becomes more and more difficult, meaning that these children and adolescents are being excluded from receiving possibly effective treatment that can not only improve their education and their life experience at the time they're suffering from severe headaches, but potentially also affect them for the lifetime. So getting opportunities and more tools in our toolbox to help these children and adolescents from suffering may actually help prevent adults from suffering. So it has become a challenge. Fortunately, getting approval opens up that door, but that doesn't always guarantee success. So what have been the biggest changes to management of migraine in pediatric age groups and children and adolescents over the past five years? Going back a little bit more than five years to the CHAMP study, which was also in the New England Journal of Medicine, we were able to show that amatriclein to pyromate, and that was my role, both effective in children and adolescents, but at an equal level of placebo. So I don't like to say there was this. Nestle failed to show efficacy, but it failed to show separation from placebo. So that threw the world a little bit into a turmoil. It settled out fairly quickly because we do have to try to do something for children and adolescents, and different approaches have evolved. I can say the approach we've developed since day children's is really, I think, much more patient-centered in that we give them the choice to choose how they want to treat their headaches, and many of them still use the medications in the CHAMP study. They have a trypocline or the topyramate, whereas some choose other treatments, whether it's healthy lifestyle management. It can also include things such as vitamin component or sometimes just waiting. In addition, during that time period, devices have also been shown to have efficacy in open label studies, but did lead to approval for use of devices down to age eight, which has helped a significant number of children and adolescents, especially in the school setting. And then finally, with the space study, as the CGRP monoclonal antibodies in G-PAMP being studied, and the studies are ongoing now across the board, for the first time we can show efficacy of the monoclonal antibodies, the fermisopam compared to placebo in those children and adolescents having less than 15 headache days per month. Can you tell us now about the space trial? Sure. The space trial has been ongoing for probably five years. It finally was completed, and we were able to show that fermisopam, CGRP monoclonal antibody, was more effective in our primary and secondary outcomes compared to placebo. So this resulted in a reduction of days per month with headaches consistent with migraine, as well as A-50% or greater reduction in the number of days per month. So both of these showed separation, and which really is a key component that shows that these medicines do work. A few other interesting factors when we did compare them to adult studies, the response rate was essentially the same for fermisopam, where there was children, adolescents, or adults. And similarly, there were very few side effects across the board. The most significant one was a little bit of erythema at the site of injection. How long were patients followed for? So for the reported study, it was a four-week baseline followed by a 12-week treatment phase. So for a total of about four months or 16 weeks, there is a follow-up study, too, that continues to be ongoing, which is the safety study that goes on for a year. But from the results that was recently reported, it was just for the double blinded placebo control part of the study. Migraine is migraine, as you say, across the ages or lifespan. But we do sometimes get concerned about the theoretical possibility of CGRP inhibition in children. Is there any potential concerns that you may have had? So one of the biggest concerns we had going on, especially in both children, but also mothers that happened to get pregnant while on the CGRP-bounded recliner body, is that it can affect bone development and bone growth. So that was one of the things that was being watched out for, and fortunately none of that was seen. But what we did see, that it was extremely well-tolerated in these children and adolescents, which was nice to see. So nothing we really expected as far as adverse events exceeded the placebo rate really across the board. Great. And so how do you see Feminazumab or CGRP monoclonal antibodies fitting into the treatment paradigm? Right now, part of the restrictions we have, and we've run into actually gotten, say, slightly worse than better, is that because this study only looked at that artificial demarcation we had at 15 headache days per month, some insurance companies will only approve it if the frequency has been established at less than 15 headache days per month. And so it's actually resulted in exclusion of more kids that are the most difficult to treat the, or we label the chronic migraine kids or the kids more than 15 headache days per month. So that's one of the negative impacts that it's had on treating children and adolescents. From a positive factor though, having any additional tools are important. I can say that when we introduced this to kids, many of them still have a bit of needlephobia and would prefer not to give themselves a shot. So most of them do choose an oral medication to start. So even though we had a recent editorial in headache recommending that the CGRP monoclonal antibodies considered one of the first line medications along with the oral therapies, it's still, by the patient's choice, tends to be more on the second or third tier, both from a pre-approval process, because then many of these are still required pre-approval as well as a needlephobia process. That being said, once they do start using the CGRP monoclonal antibodies, we've had quite a few kids that have had a significant amount of success in using these medications. So I do really think in the current as well as the future standard, this will be a successful tool for a portion of the children and adolescents we see. I think you can argue, at least for most people with migraine, that if you have chronic migraine, you've had migraine without aura, migraine with aura at some point, right? Yeah, I think to get to the greater than 15, you have to go through 0 and 14 to do that. A little bit of a soapbox issue. Wish as a field, we would eliminate that separation and say that really anybody that needs prevention, which one could argue more than one day a week, you should consider prevention, should be allowed to use it. Areas or two strata that separate at 15 where you only have approval for one of those two areas, whether it's for the chronic and not the episodic or for the episodic and not chronic is doing a disservice to our patients. But we will see the results of a chronic migraine trial, correct? Yes, it's I can't tell you anything about it yet because it's still under analysis, but it has been pleated enrollment and the data has been completed and collected. So hopefully we will get results of that within this year. So what else is on the horizon for pediatric migraine? So the other three CGRP monoclonal antibodies all have ongoing studies. They are also getting close to completion, although the IV formulation is still open. If there are people that are interested in rolling, there's many sites that are open for that to enroll. In addition to that, the G-pants, the CGRP small molecule antagonist are also actively being studied in children and adolescents, both for their acute efficacy as well as their prevention efficacy. And as new ones are also being looked at in adults, the hope and expectation is that this will also be included in children and adolescents. Even further down the line, there's new neuropeptide and neuropeptide monoclonals, like the PCAP, PCAP, and VIP that are being looked at. In some of the discussions I've heard with these companies, they are actually trying to lobby that this study is done across all the ages so as to avoid some of that expectation response that we may have in children and adolescents knowing the adult results before the pediatrics and study starts. So I think there's new tools that not only for children and adolescents that are here, but ones that are coming from adults and future ones to come from adults that we could look at potentially further help enhance the improvement in the lives of these children and adolescents and adults and even older adults to suffer less from having intermittent headaches or recurrent headaches due to migraine. This is great. Thank you for coming on our podcast from the first presentation of the space trial at the American Academy of Neurology to now the final paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Congratulations to you and your team. Thank you. And thank you again for inviting me. And thank you for listening to the Neurology podcast. Please check out the paper provided in the link. For our full list of past episodes, or you can also search by keyword in your podcast app for any neurology specific topics you want to know about.