 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx authors to meet the person behind the paper and share the stories behind the studies. Today, I'm joined by Dr. Tatiana Grish. Dr. Grish is a neurohospitalist and vascular neurologist at Maine Health, Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine. She earned her medical degree at Paris-Staycarte University in Paris, completed her neurology residency at Boston University Medical Center, where she served as chief resident, and then went on to a vascular neurology fellowship at Mass General Brigham. Her academic interests include stroke in the young and the neurohumanities, with a particular focus on integrating clinical neurology and the arts. Tatiana is the lead author of an incredible research study published in Neurology Education entitled The Mene Project Museum Art in Neurology Education Training. Welcome, Tatiana. Thanks so much, Galina. So let's start with a really big picture and hook our audience. If an educator takes one thing away from your study, what is it that you'd want them to think about doing differently in their teaching or training programs? Yeah, so we talk a lot in neurology residency training about things like teamwork, reflective practice, well-being, and recognizing bias, and these are all part of the ACE-GME milestones, but they can be surprisingly hard to teach because they're so abstract. And what the study shows is that arts and humanities give us a very tangible way to work on these skills. And it's not about replacing traditional clinical training at all. It's really more about complimenting it and enriching it and really creating a space to slow down and reflect altogether, while also having a meaningful clinical impact. I really love that, that it's not an add-on. It's really part and core to the neurological training that we're trying to do. So let's go back to the beginning, Tatiana. I'm so curious how you got interested in this intersection of art and neurology education, and what sparked this idea for the Mene Project? I think it really started, you know, during medical school and residency, you noticed how much of our training focuses on the what-off neurology, what the lesion is, what the imaging shows, what the diagnosis is. And actually caring for people with neurological illness is, you know, asks something a bit different of us. It requires really close observation, close observation, listening, you know, beyond the surface and really being able to sit with the uncertainty with, like, patience and compassion. And I think that's where my interest in the neurohumanities came in. And during residency, I started learning more about how visual arts, training and humanities were improving skills like observational skills, communication skills and empathy. And there were a lot of studies showing the benefits of this training or these programs in medical students, but also like other specialties, so like dermatology and radiology. But there weren't that much or there wasn't much looking at neurology specifically. So that gap is really what sparked the idea of creating the project like Mene. So interesting. Did you have a background in art yourself or was it reading about the use of art in these studies that first got you interested? I, so I kind of grew up, you know, going to like art school like on the weekends and I did a lot of, you know, art for like I studied like oil painting, watercolor, water, so I like kind of was experimenting at a young age with all these mediums. And then of course, during like medical school and residency, I had less time to kind of explore that area. But I think the Mene project was the perfect way to find a way to integrate that like interest in the arts with something that's relevant. It was my clinical training in neurology. It's so interesting that you cite some of the prior work in radiology, dermatology, some of the areas that we consider visual based specialties. But I do think neurology has some in common as well with neuroimaging and, you know, with our clinical exam. So I wonder if for listeners who haven't read your paper yet, if you can kind of briefly walk us through what the Mene project looked like. So what was it that you got residence to actually do during the museum sessions? And how did you set it up? Yeah, so the Mene project. So Mene is actually short for museum art in neurology education training. And it's a collaboration between the neurology residency program at Boston University and the curators at the Harvard Art Museums. And so over the past couple of years, our residents came to the museum for a series of these like custom designed art observation sessions. And each session we focused on a different theme. So we had a theme like power, ambiguity, improvisation, and the museum educators really carefully designed these prompts to help residents really look closely at the artworks and kind of slow down. And then residents were also encouraged to reflect on how these themes showed up not only in their professional lives, but also in their personal lives, and to compare their own perspectives with what was offered by the artwork and by their peers. We, you know, we wanted to also deepen their experience. And so we also created these like hands on activities at times, which kind of gave the residents other ways to engage with the material and reflect on what they were seeing and what they were discussing. I want to follow up on that hands on piece. But before we get there, I'm curious about what it was like to work with museum educators, your project is such a wonderful example of inter professional education, and really the multi disciplinary work that goes into our space education. So tell us about how you managed to set that up. And what was that like? Yeah, so working with museum educators was incredibly rewarding. They're experts at facilitating these conversations in a way that feels really open, without any hierarchy. And it really changed how residents were engaging with one another. I think, you know, the way I kind of happened was I just like reached out to the Harvard Art Museum, and I had reached out to a particular person who had been involved in other kind of programs with and was aware of like medical trainees and kind of their needs. And so this wasn't someone who was a stranger to the hospital and to like residency and what we expect from like the program. But yeah. And they were very, very, you know, interested in the idea of collaborating. No, it sounds like it was a wonderful match made in arts, neural, neural education heaven. So you chose the objectives you mentioned, close observation, tolerance for ambiguity, as well as power dynamics bias. So I'm curious how you chose those objectives and also how you chose to evaluate the program and kind of choose what outcomes you would look to see if you were able to kind of move the needle on some of those things. Yeah, so I'll start with how did we decide on evaluating outcomes. So we looked at it kind of like from different angles. On one hand, we really wanted to evaluate outcomes using an objective measure. So we assessed residents observational skills at two time points, the first being right before participating in the Manila project. And then at the end of the academic year after they had the chance to attend multiple museum sessions. And so we use this like objective scoring tool and looked at their performance, looking and observing clinical imagery. So like MRIs, videos of neurological exams, so like for example, at Parksonian Gate, but also we evaluated how they were looking at art imagery. So that was the quantitative way to evaluate the residents. But then on the other hand, we also conducted a qualitative analysis, and we really analyzed residents' written observational responses in more depth. And what stood out was this like clear shift in how residents were describing what they were seeing. After the museum sessions, they started to incorporate more precise and structured like visual language. They were using terms like symmetry and shape and size and contrast. And they weren't just applying that language when they were looking at artwork, they were also kind of using that same language in clinical imagery as well. And so that really suggested a real transfer of skills from a museum setting to your clinical practice. That's wonderful. I mean, your key finding was that primary outcome was this increase, significant increase in the observational skills, not just for clinical images like MRIs and videos, but for the art imagery. And it's so interesting because I think of, you know, Kirkpatrick's level of program evaluation, and we get not just one, they liked it and they enjoy the museum, but really getting at that level to outcome of a change and their skill set, their approach, and maybe even not quite reaching level three would change behavior, but at least kind of foreshadowing that with the ability to interpret clinical images differently as well. Yeah, absolutely. And I think the most important implication in that is that observational skills weren't just like domain specific, they're transferable and, you know, training residents to look carefully and describing what they were seeing in the context of art was actually a way for them strengthen how they were observing and interpreting, you know, physical exam findings and MRIs and CT scans. And the museum just became this like training ground where residents were really practicing careful observation. And I'd love to hear from the residents what it was like to, you know, come back to the clinic because there's so many times we're rounding and before we even say anything, we kind of stand back and make an observation or we'll be walking the patient back to the exam room and, you know, assessing their gait. So those skills, as you said, are quite important, quite transferable. Yeah, absolutely. Another big part of your focus was on tolerance for ambiguity. To me, one of the most striking findings was that 100% of the residents who participated in your program reported feeling more comfortable with ambiguity in clinical settings. So I'm curious, how did you manage to accomplish that? And, you know, why do you think art is such a powerful way or engaging with artists are powerful way to help trainees grapple with uncertainty and ambiguity? You know, our uncertainty and ambiguity is like such a fascinating topic to me. And I think art is so powerful because it doesn't demand this cognitive closure. It really allows for multiple interpretations and possibilities. And it really resets this need for a definitive answer. There's almost something really timeless about being surrounded with art. You know, you're looking at a painting and there's this idea that, you know, art gives people permission to kind of slow down, you know, to be fully, fully present and to focus on just one single thing. And the museum itself is, you know, the environment matters a lot too. I think it's just so different from being in a hospital. It's again, it's informal. The hierarchy is not present. There's no pressure to, you know, impress in attending or, you know, there's no sense that you need to perform. No pagers, you know, going off. It's really a space where you can have these like deep reflective conversations. And I feel like that's what we noticed is they were happening so naturally and trainees were practicing, sitting with all these like emotions of like uncertainty and ambiguity in a way that really felt safe to them. That's so wonderful. So I shared what was striking to me. But I'm curious, was there anything in your results that was striking or surprising to you? You know, can I agree with you? I feel like really the magnitude of the change and the residents' comfort with ambiguity was, you know, set out right away. But I think beyond the numbers, what really stayed with me was more the conversations themselves, you know, being present in those sessions and watching the discussions unfold in front of the artworks was honestly mesmerizing. I know it was really fascinating like seeing the depth of reflection and sometimes emotional responses that people were having and the way people built on each other's observations and tried to make meaning together around artworks that were completely new to them. So I think for me it really reinforced the idea that residents are really hungry for spaces where they can again, just like slow down, reflect, think out loud without having that need to worry about being right or wrong and kind of seeing that openness and curiosity emerge so naturally was really, really, really powerful. I love how you commented on both what happened intrapersonally for them and potentially intrapersonally as well as they worked and got to learn and meet one another in a different way. I'm curious, did what happened at the museum stay at the museum or did it come back to practice in some way? What was it like for the residents back in training and has a program continued at Boston University since you left? It has, yes. The program was really well received. I think everyone really, really enjoyed these sessions and is now, the program is now formally integrated in the neurology residency curriculum at BU. It's currently being led by Dr. Priyanan who is an amazing physician. She's one of my mentors and is the program director of the adult neurology residency program there. So, I mean, seeing the project continue to grow after I left has been just really, like, so meaningful. What you did is so incredible and I'm sure that when others hear about it, they'll be eager to implement something similar in their setting. So, I'm curious if you could share with us, are there any particular challenges or obstacles that you had to overcome when designing and implementing the program or any advice that you'd have for someone else who was thinking of implementing this in their program? Yeah. So, I think logistics were probably the biggest challenge. You know, thankfully at BMC, residents did have a four-hour protected didactic walk that happened on Tuesday afternoons and that helped a lot in terms of organizing these sessions. But we still had to think carefully about, like, practical things. We had to make sure people were leaving on time, that they had time to eat lunch, leave the hospital, get to the museum, which was, like, you know, 15-minute, like, rides, like, car ride, and then return in time for their clinical responsibilities four hours later. So, I think the logical aspect was, I think, the most challenging when creating a project like Mene, but then buy-in was also very crucial. When I first, I remember when I first presented the idea to, like, the residency leadership, I was so fortunate to have their full support and I think that really made all the difference. You know, I'm also very grateful to the attendings and the nurse practitioners who were covering the inpatient pagers during that time. You know, I think they really, truly respected the idea that protected educational time, regardless of what didactics may have looked like. Like, we were in a museum, like, outside the hospital and they were still covering our pagers. So, I think one of the biggest lessons for me was just how important institutional support is when you're trying to find ways to innovate in neurology education. That's such a great point, is that you were able to really sell it as an integral part of the educational curriculum, not an add-on, and therefore made perfect sense that it would be delivered at the time of the protected educational curriculum. I'm actually curious, Tajada, looking back, at what point did you consider making this education scholarship? So, you sort of transitioned it not from just implementing it, but really thinking about doing a pre-test, thinking about a post-test, thinking about evaluation. Was that something that you thought about at an advanced some point in the middle, and what advice do you have for others to do a successful project like you did? So, interestingly, I thought when I first had the idea of the Mane Project, I knew that I wanted something concrete, something objective to measure. And because I, if I wanted this to happen and kind of continue growing in a program, I feel like I needed some data to prove that, hey, this works, and this is not just a waste of time, that this is something that we can actually use for neurology education, but it's different. And so, actually, as soon as I started kind of organizing and collaborating with the museum educators, and you're right away that we had to have, you know, we created an IRB, we started looking at like, how should we measure the outcome measurements, and kind of started creating that like kind of research project really early on. So, I think my advice is like really organizing things like early on, but for any time you want to start any project, I think having like clear objectives about what your project, what your project is, and can be truly helpful and also kind of guide the way you want your program to go. That makes sense. No, I think that's really practical advice that in some ways, you've got to bring the data to make sure that it's sustainable to show that it's actually looking at outcomes that the program directors are going to be interested in. And it sounds like you had a great circle of that inner support. However, that inner support also has to justify it to those outer circles. And so, I think you've really shown us a great example of the type of data that can be meaningful and really persuasive. So, for educators listening, who are certainly inspired by thinking, maybe this is amazing, but I'm not sure I have access to a major museum or to an art educator like you did. What would you say to them? You know, I think I would say that while working with a major museum and trained art educators is incredibly valuable. You know, there's no denying that. It's also really not the only way to engage meaningfully with the arts, not every program has access to a major museum. And that's okay. And that certainly should not be a barrier. I think there's a lot of local resources that can be used. You know, you have your local library, there's a community art center. Sometimes you can even use, you know, publicly available images, you know, on the internet. They can serve as a great starting point. I think I'd like to add that like virtual platforms like Zoom are opening up new possibilities. They make it much easier to collaborate with arts educators and, you know, sometimes invite experts from anywhere, even if they're not local. And I think that kind of remote partnership can allow these experiences to be much more accessible. I love that. That's such great advice for how you can expand it and think about new ways of interacting with art. Yeah, I love how you say these are not obstacles. These are just curves in the road that give you a different direction. So what about you? What's next for you in terms of either future directions for this work or other projects that you're working on? So I, you know, I'm hoping to continue to explore neuro humanities and thinking carefully about how the arts and humanities can be meaningfully integrated into neurology training and just neurology education. Regarding this work, I think there were several exciting directions for this work. For example, I, you know, you kind of mentioned it, but it's really, it would be really nice to look at long-term impact and see how these skills around observation and reflection and comfort with ambiguity will persist over time and how especially like, how do they specifically translate into clinical practice? I think that would be like a great study. I would love to see this project expanded to other learner groups, for example, making it even more interdisciplinary, including our advanced practice, practice providers and nurses and, you know, even creating spaces like this for attendings, I think can be really helpful. Feelings surrounding uncertainty and ambiguity certainly doesn't stop once training ends. And I think, you know, attendees can also benefit from a space like this. Well, when you create that program to Tiana, sign me up because I'm already there. Okay, so I just wanted to wrap up as we head to the end with some major takeaways from your paper that I think every neurologist and educator should know and remember. And the first is that engaging in arts and humanities can have real clinical impact. Arts-based education significantly improved neurology residents' observational skills, not only for artwork, but as you said, for clinical imaging and neurological findings. The second is that engaging with visual art fosters empathy and increases tolerance for ambiguity. These skills are essential and not often formally taught in neurology training. So this offers a really innovative way for us to do that. And finally, the humanities offer something critical, but rare in residents' education. You said it best, which is just this protected space to slow down, to reflect, to reconnect with yourself and others, and with the very human experience that's at the core of excellent neurological care. Tiana, anything else that you'd add or any final words? You know, I think at the end of the day, caring for patients with the neurological diseases, I think just requires both. It requires humanity, but also scientific rigor and science helps us understand the illness, its mechanisms, how to treat it. But I think it's really the human side of medicine that really helps us understand the person living with that disease and projects like Menai Project really exist at that intersection. Thank you so much to Tiana for joining us today. And if you'd like to learn more, you can find Dr. Gray's paper, The Menai Project Museum Art in Neurology Education Training on the Neurology Education website. I'm Glena Gaikman, and that's a wrap for today's Meet the Author series. Thank you. Thank you.