 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx in Esquego by Emma. I'm an epilepsy specialist at Brigham and Women's, Mass General Brigham in Boston, and I'm joined today by my colleague, Dr. Maria Cristinanto Rotan, from Yale Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. All right, hi, I'm so excited to be here with you. So today we'll be discussing the recently published study in Urology, titled Risk of Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes associated with anti-seizure medications and their indications. It is a systematic review and meta-analysis. As a clinician scientist focusing my efforts on pregnant women with epilepsy, I was excited to learn more about this topic, but before we dive in, in someone who recently established a women's epilepsy clinic at Yale University, which resources do you rely on to keep yourself and your patients informed when it comes, when the discussion comes to pregnancy outcomes in epilepsy? So the large body of knowledge that we have available come from registries which track major congenital malformations in women taking anti-seizure medications, along other outcomes, such as the North American Anti-Apileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry, the European Registry of Anti-Apileptic Drugs in Pregnancy, as well as a few other registries, the ones in UK and Ireland, the Australian one and the Kerala Registry from India. Additionally, publications from MONID and the NAMES study groups that review neurodevelopmental outcomes provide such important information that we rely on for counseling. And for more nuanced things, not found in published studies, which is a lot in this realm, I rely on colleagues such as our consortium of experts called ECAM, where we, which is a group of women, providers with clinical and research interests in care for women with epilepsy. And finally, as always, any new publication regarding pregnancy and epilepsy outcomes are reviewed, such as this one article. Yes, this paper is a commendable effort from our Australian colleagues, senior authors, Dr. Anthony Baker and Dr. Baruka, together with our team. It is likely the largest and most comprehensive synthesis to date. And it attempts to clarify maternal obstetric as well as neonatal outcomes in pregnancies exposed to anti-seizure medications. Right, Emma. So this study, their group performed a systematic review and a meta-analysis, which included 75 studies and nearly 17 million pregnancies or live births in the analysis. The investigators searched multiple databases for studies comparing pregnant women exposed to anti-seizure medications for any indication with untreated pregnant women and focused as you said on obstetric and fetal or neonatal complications. Yeah, you know, this is particularly interesting because as you noted, large registries and prospective cohorts have clarified the risk of major vaginal formation and neurodevelopmental problems in children. And we know a little bit about obstetric outcomes, but we know far less. And we understand less how seizures and anti-seizure medications affect maternal outcomes but also neonatal outcomes. For our audience, could you summarize their key findings? Yeah, so the authors of this study found that compared with pregnancies and unaffected women, those exposed to anti-seizure medications had increased odds of several different obstetric and fetal or neonatal outcomes. More specifically, they found increased odds of preterm birth, cesarean section, gestational diabetes, induction of labor, preeclampsia, spontaneous miscarriages and spontaneous fetal loss. Yeah, well, this meta-analysis told pregnancy exposed to different anti-seizure medication for various indications to achieve sufficient numbers. I actually appreciate that it was not limited to epilepsy alone in conditions such as had a psychiatric disorder, Spain. It provides an opportunity to begin separating the effects of medications themselves versus the effect of the disease. Yeah, as much as they wanted to include other indications, however, it's important to note that about 91% of the studies that were included in the analysis were women with epilepsy, with only a small percentage about seven studies that assessed other indications. But for the epilepsy cohort, which as I mentioned is the biggest sort of group or a population in this analysis, the article finds that some adverse outcomes, particularly preterm birth, cesarean section, gestational diabetes and preeclampsia may be related to the underlying indication. They did this by, in their analysis, they tried to do a direct comparison among three different groups. One was pregnancies exposed to anti-seizure medications. The other group was unexposed pregnancies with the same conditions requiring anti-seizure medications or untreated group. And third is the pregnancies in unaffected women without these conditions. Yeah, as I said, I do appreciate the effort to tease apart medication effects from underlying disease effect. But it raises the question of who exactly are these untreated cohorts. For example, in epilepsy, we may not have, it may include both women with resolved epilepsy, those who discontinued medications out of concern for fetal safety. And the outcomes in these two different patient populations are likely gonna be very different. And then, notably, the balance of these two groups in the studies included are gonna be very different. So how can we interpret then the effect of the disease versus the effect of the medication? Yeah, I think, as you mentioned, the group, particularly of the untreated, those with the indication, but not on anti-seizure medications, there's a lot of questions of which patients are included in that. In the study, though, to help further tease out medication and disease effect, they tried to do another sub-analysis where they confirmed, where they looked at anti-seizure medication effect. Particularly, what they had found was that odds of spontaneous miscarriage, spontaneous fetal loss, elective C-sections and lower apcarse scores and admissions to the NICU were higher in the anti-seizure medication exposed group compared to the unexposed pregnancies in women with the same indication. And they raised the possibility with these findings that maybe exposure to anti-seizure medications might be associated with additional risks outside of the actual underlying condition or indication for the anti-seizure medications itself. Yeah, and they did have a number of studies, a small number, though, that investigated differences in the risk between different anti-seizure medication monotherapies. And confirms what we knew that pyramids and misamides are associated with the risk for small, for gestational ageing infants, and perhaps other of our medications too, but these again seem to be more consistent in many studies that we read. And I think regardless of the individual anti-seizure medication monotherapy outcomes, this is once more a reminder that we really need to personalize care and bring it to just specific counseling. To our patients maybe on different medications, different combinations. Yeah, and I think one of the key things is our patient population, right? There's so many unknowns in this, in these group of patients that we take care of, because the study focuses on pregnant women. One of the big limitations, especially in a meta-analysis like this, is that most studies as expected will be observational studies, just because of the nature of our patient population. Knowing that this really limits sort of, it's difficult to account for a lot of confounding factors. Epilepsy on its own is such a heterogeneous disease, there's different ideologies, disease severity in our patient population can often be determined by seizure frequency or anti-seizure medication side effects, which really a study like this couldn't really account for. For sure, yeah, and it's even more nuanced, right? Because it may be that the disease and it's severity are important, medications are important, but also other factors influence the outcomes. And for example, talking about maternal outcomes and the high rate of C-section, from the moment study, we learned that actually in tertiary centers, the rate of C-section in pregnant women with epilepsy is similar to that in the general population. Yeah, I think you raise a really good point, which one of the key things too, is that most of the studies that are included in this study or analysis, there's not a lot of data that included low and middle income countries where exposure patterns may differ, subspecialty and obstetric care may differ. So I think there's a lot of factors there that, again, it doesn't really take into consideration or the study design itself can't allow for in terms of its analysis. Yeah, this study does compile a lot of studies, some very old, perhaps with more medications from the first generation of antiseasure medication group that we know have higher risks and perhaps those dependent risks. And this would not allow us to disapart those risks. The authors did do an effort to look at the data before 2009 and after 2009 when AN guidelines were released, but they had too few studies after 2009. And we know that so much of our practice has changed in the past couple of decades and so much information came out about how we should manage with epilepsy during pregnancy that keeping an eye on the more recent outcomes is gonna be very important in the future. Yeah, definitely. I think for all its limitations of things that we had discussed, I think one of the big impacts or the things that I took away from this study is that it really supports our existing data or that we know about higher obstetrical or fetal and neonatal risks in pregnancy for women with epilepsy on antiseasure medications. And I think it really emphasizes what we do in our practice where we follow these patients very closely throughout their pregnancy and make sure that these patients that we limit these potential adverse outcomes. Excellent. And I think we touched upon most important issues in this paper for our audience. Let's discuss the clinical implication a little more. As you said, this study reinforces some of the practices that we already employ in our clinics. And the most important one is that counseling is key. Epilepsy is so heterogeneous. We have so many medications. The knowledge is a little variable in terms of the medications related risks and also severity related risks. But we do need to inform patients beyond the risks of malformations and neurodevelopmental outcomes. I agree. I think moreover it highlighted that medication choice is important. Some antiseasure medications pose higher risks compared to others. As we know about older generation antiseasure medications and monotherapy is preferred to polytherapy when possible. That being said, caution must be made when attempting medication changes during pregnancy to prevent convulsions or risks of convulsions as this can have detrimental effects and can actually sort of even be one of the things that contribute to maternal and fetal or neonatal outcomes. This point was recently highlighted in the most recent practice guidelines published in 2004 which was a collaboration between AAN, AES and the Society of MFM which is also published in the Neurology Journal. For sure. And as we were talking based on the patient's epilepsy and response to medications, it's such a personalized equation and sometimes we are limited in what we can do but we can stay informed and attempt to do our best. And I think it's really important to stay in touch with our OBGYN colleagues. I think collaboration is key for these patients. And I mentioned this before but C-section rate for example is much lower in tertiary centers and we know that in these centers we have dedicated colleagues who take care of these patients and great communication in between neurology and OBGYN and that may get a little more fragmented when a woman gets scared in different places. Yeah, I agree. And I think this study sort of looking at how the disease itself or epilepsy itself can have a contribution to fetal and maternal outcomes also really highlights the role of neurologists and epileptologists and care for pregnant women, right? Our understanding of their underlying etiology, seizure types, seizure frequency, all of the anti-seizure medications and its combinations, these are all important information that we really need to bring in collaboration with OBM and MFM in managing these patients. So Emma, what should clinician scientists focus on next in terms of clinical and research priorities, do you think? I think there's so much more that we need to know and so much more that our patients want to know. I do think that for this patient population, prospective observation of study is the best setup. And monit, maternal outcomes of neurodevelopmental effects of anti-epileptic drugs. We know that set up the foundation at least here in the US. It's changed clinical practice, but there is so much left to be able to understand more beyond the effects of levitaracetamol, the motrogen, two medications that they study, really details. I completely agree. I think one of the frustrating things is the absence of information and data that we can bring regarding newer generation anti-seizure medications. As you know, in our practice, we use these more and more frequently, including in women with epilepsy of childbearing potential. So I think gearing some of these studies towards these newer generation anti-seizure medications should really be prioritized as well. For sure. And we were talking earlier about how these medications are prescribed for other indications. And this paper actually points out that within the cohort of patients prescribed anti-seizure medication, only about 50% are prescribed anti-seizure medications for epilepsy. So really looking at the outcomes in pregnancies is opposed to a SM for other indications comparing it with the epilepsy patients may perhaps offer more insight. I agree. I think if I were to have a wish list for a clinician scientist, I think one of the things that we should consider are maybe even animal studies that can help us understand from a mechanistic standpoint whether or not these anti-seizure medications have the potential for fetal and maternal risks in that way. So regardless of the indication or the underlying disease process. For sure. And then genetic risk factors are also so important. And perhaps understand that there's so much more to explore on this topic. And hopefully papers like this will encourage all of us to think more about what we can do in clinic and in research to improve the care of these patients. Yeah, so Emma, overall what are a few key things? Do we think our audience wants to take away from our review of this article and discussion of the topic? So this study once again highlights the increased maternal and neonatal risks for pregnancies exposed to anti-seizure medications. It also raises the question whether these risks may be due to the underlying disease itself, but definitely anti-seizure medication may add to that incremental risk. And there may be drug specific signals, but I don't think we are at the point where to really understand what those drug specific signals are. And it's hard because we know that many patients are on polytherapy and not mentioned in this study. We know that polytherapy consistently increases the odds of some adverse outcomes such as small for gestational age. Yeah, I think knowing what we know right now and knowing the things that we don't know, I think this paper also just underscores what you've taught me and what we currently practice. Counseling and shared decision-making is key. As epileptologists or neurologists, I think we always need to balance maternal seizure control with maternal and fetal risks, which includes everything that we had discussed in this paper. That's true, Nina. This helps support our practice of collaborating with OBGYNs, maternal fetal medicine specialists, to ensure close follow-ups throughout pregnancy. These are high-risk individuals. And together, individualizing, personalizing decision-making regarding delivery mode for each patient. Yeah, I think I keep saying it, but epilepsy is a disease that affects people of all ages. And for women of child-bearing age trying to conceive or women with epilepsy who are pregnant, I think studies like these really help us make management decisions, provide insightful information for counseling and to help patients have the best outcomes, which is always our goal. Thank you for your insight, Nina. We'd like to wrap up by thanking you all once again for joining us for this episode of the Neurology Video Journal Club. Together, we had the pleasure of discussing the article, the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes associated with the anti-seizure medications and their indications, a systematic review and meta-analysis published in the Neurology Journal. It was great to be here with you, Emma, and to our audience. We hope this conversation sparked new insights, some curiosity, and hope you come back and join the Journal Club for future conversations.