 Do you get that nervous, shaky feeling right before a competition? Do you get that nervous, shaky feeling right before a competition? The competition's about to start, and now your mind's racing, and your stomach's nods, and, well, your confidence, well, that's disappearing. If yes, listen up. You are not alone. It's more common than you might think, and in this video, I'll walk you through a simple three-step routine that's going to help you feel calm, it's going to help you feel confident, and locked in before your competition. And by the way, if we haven't met, I'm Dr. Haley Perlis. I'm a performance psychology expert specializing in applying sport-specific techniques to help athletes optimize their mental game, perform, and compete their best. The first step is to acknowledge the fact that you're nervous and tell yourself it's okay. Nerves mean you care. It means you're excited about something. You also probably have some expectation, and that expectation comes from a place of confidence. So it means that you believe in your ability to make something happen. So accept that you're nervous and tell yourself it's okay. In fact, it means you care, and it means that somewhere you actually believe that you can make something happen. The second step is we need to use the energy that we've got going on in our body. Now, if you're feeling that shakiness, if you've got a tight stomach, an upset stomach, if you've got sweaty palms, that's energy. But if you're stuck here, you can't use that energy. So what I recommend is a technique called progressive muscular relaxation. Do it with me. Take your hands, and we'll just use our hands for an example. But take your hands, make fists, and I want you to squeeze it really tight. So I want you to stress your body for 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and now intentionally let your body go. Let your body relax. If you do that three times, what you're going to do is feel some tingling in your upper body. And that tingling is blood flowing through your body. Oxygen is carried in that blood, and that oxygen is energy. So the second step is to tense your muscles, any part of your body, even if it's your whole body, and then go ahead and relax. Do that a few times, feel that energy, and let that energy now work for you. And the third simple routine is I want you to identify at least one, no more than three, but at least one strength, technical, tactical, strategic that you own. It might be your hand-eye coordination. It might be your agility. It might be your speed. It might be your follow through, your ability to spot the landing. I don't know what your sport is, so I'm just making up some examples. But choose a fundamental skill that you own, that you're not necessarily looking to develop. You already have it to a really high degree. And then your routine is to go and execute that skill. Go show it off. Professional athletes don't run out onto their sporting field looking for all the ways that they can improve. They run out onto their sporting arena ready to highlight, show off, showcase their strengths. And that's what I want you to do as well. Step number one, accept the fact that you're nervous and tell yourself it's okay because it is okay. It means you care and it means you believe. Step number two, tense your body and then relax your body. Do that a few times and let that energy work for you. Step number three, choose at least one, but no more than three, one strength that you're going to own for this performance. And then you go out there and you focus on that. You highlight that. You show off your strengths. And let's just see what will happen. If you like this video and you don't want to miss any more mental toughness moments, be sure to subscribe. And if you have any questions, go ahead and put them down in the comment section. And I'll help you out to the best of my ability. Until next time, have a wonderful rest of your day. Bye. Bye.