 The stressovastin, circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, The circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, circumstantres, But he didn't crack. He trained harder, focused smarter, deeper, and trusted the process. Today, we're going to talk about his mental strength. And I'm going to touch on three specific tools that Harry Kane uses and that we can use too. Harry Kane talks about his meticulous preparation as the cornerstone of his mental resilience. He watches video and it analyzes not only his performance, but also his opponent's performance, because then he knows that he can adapt and improve. And it all contributes to his understanding of the game, to understand the understanding of his opponents, understanding of his areas of improvement. And doubt is the precursor to fear. So if you have confidence through all this analysis, well, you're doing your best to reduce as much fear as you can. Kane also acknowledges the pressure of high stake matches. Yes, he gets nervous like we all do, but he looks at it as a sign of commitment. It's not the physiological energy that's bad. It's the story that we tell ourselves about that energy that can be bad. Harry Kane knows that that energy can be good energy. For him, he uses it as a sign of commitment. You can use it as a sign of motivation. You can use it as a sign of that you want something, that maybe you believe you can get something. So maybe it's a sign of confidence. Those butterflies are not going anywhere and we don't want to, but it's nervousness. And that nervousness can be good energy. If we let it. Kane also talks about a forward looking mindset. He's focused on improvement rather than past achievements. And this helps him to stay grounded and use each experience as a stepping stone for growth. Now, past, past masteries, past achievements is a great way for us to build confidence. We look at what we've done in the past and we say, well, if we've done it before, then we can do it again and better. But if we're only focusing on our past achievements, that can also be a distractor and it doesn't always propel us to be motivated for the present and what's next. So if we follow Harry Kane and we stay focused on forward thinking and we use our past accomplishments just to show us what we can do, but then redirect our focus right in the moment and what we need to do now to achieve our next goal. Well, now we got a boost of energy from the past, a boost of confidence from the past, but our mind is not going to get stuck back there. Our mind is going to be right here, forward thinking for our next intentions, for our next performances, for our next goals. In a world obsessed with instant results, Harry Kane proves that belief, patience, and mental strength still win in the end.