 and pixabab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab pixab to help athletes optimize their mental game and perform at their best. I would say visualization is most popular for imagining the final moment when all things go your way, right? Whether you're visualizing your best performance, the perfect performance, the outcome, the results, winning, whatever winning means for you. But visualization, and I'm actually going to call it imagery from now on, is actually so much more useful than just imaging the outcome. And if you're injured, there are many ways for you to use imagery to again, speed up your recovery. There's something called healing imagery, and there are two ways to do this. One is that you can find the injured spot. So let's say you have, just because you can see my shoulder, let's say you have a shoulder injury, and you've got some scar tissue going on, and there's some inflammation that you'd like to be reduced. So what you can do is one of two things. You can either assign it some type of character. So forgive me Mucinex, but I like the Mucinex commercial. I call it the booger dude. And if he's unpacking and getting ready to find its home in my shoulder, and it represents scar tissue and inflammation, I'm going to close my eyes. It's easier that way. I'm going to close my eyes, and I'm going to image that booger dude, that Mucinex guy, packing up, getting out of my shoulder. Move on out. You are not welcome here. It works. It's healing imagery. Or you could do color healing imagery. Let's say that shoulder inflamed scar tissue. So maybe you're going to assign it, I don't know, a color red or brown. And that's not a healing color for you. And so what you do is you close it, and you close your eyes, and you see or you image that spot being brown or red. And then for me, healing color is green. So I would bring in a color of green to flush out the red and flush out the brown. Healing imagery. You could also go ahead and print out a stencil of your anatomy. So you can print out the shoulder for sticking with the shoulder injury. And then I would just take a green, just for me, that's my color. You can choose whatever color you want. And I start shading in that, you know, that shoulder in green and using my mental imagery. What that does is creates more calmness in your body. And calm allows oxygen. It allows energy. It allows blood flow as opposed to, you know, crazy muscle tension and anxiety. And that allows the process of recovery. Second thing you can do in your imagery is, for example, if you're working on your range of motion and it's tight. Well, just as you would use imagery to improve a skill in sport, use imagery to improve your range of motion in your injury rehabilitation. See, feel that range of motion increase. So it may not be physically doing it yet, but you go, you let yourself go to the extent that it, that the physical body can, and then you use your imagery to go just a little bit more. It doesn't have to be perfect, but just a little bit more that allows you to heal faster, perhaps using imagery. If you like this video, I have a masterclass that's titled the injury mindset, and it goes into much more detail using other techniques. In addition to imagery in the description section in this video, you'll see where to go to find that masterclass. And last but not least, I know that you are not on the playing field right now. So to keep your spirits lifted, to keep your motivation, to keep your focus, to keep your perseverance, in addition to the healing imagery that I just shared with you, go out there and imagine yourself getting back onto that field, what it's going to feel like to be back with your team, what it's going to feel like for your body to be recovered, what it's going to feel like to get back into your sport goals now that you've worked through all of your injury rehabilitation goals. So those three imagery, um, uh, exercises, one is assign it a character, your scar tissue, your swelling, um, whatever it is that's, that's in there, assign it a character. You are not your injury. That character is the injury and you start telling it to pack up and get out of your body or to calm your, your emotions and to create some energy flow, start bringing in some colors that are healing, either use imagery to assign that body part, a color, or grab a stencil of that, of that body anatomy and start literally coloring in the healing. In addition to that, make sure that you're using imagery to increase your range of motion. Make sure you're using imagery to increase that strength. So your physical body will take you so far and then use imagery to go just a little bit more, tell your body with your mind that you want it to improve. And then third, but not last, make sure that you're using imagery to stay motivated, stay on task, and get excited about your return to your sport. Use imagery to accomplish your rehabilitation goals and use imagery to help you to be excited and look forward to the opportunity that you get to get back into your sport until next time. Have a wonderful rest of your day. And thanks for watching.