 in anibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibliblibl I want to win. And, you know, I want to, I want to, you know, get, he goes, revenge may be part of it, but it is not his leading force. He says, I'm not a revengeful player. I show up and I play my own game and I respect all these players. And he, I think he definitely directed his focus towards Roger and Roger respects me. And I think it's great. And I want to share with you this concept of coopetition because Nadal was really talking about this and the story would go like this. Thank you for showing up today. Opponent. I hope you do your best opponent today because knowing that you're going to do your best is going to motivate me to do my very best and beat you. And Nadal even talked about this lovely respect that he has for Roger. And you're at a high performance. Even if you're not, whatever level you're at, look at your competition, whether it's, you know, someone that you're playing against, or maybe it's even a teammate. Thank them for showing up. Ask them to do their best and use that to motivate you to do your very best and then see what happens. Concept number two, emotional control. We can be both happy and sad in the same moment. Now, I believe that one is always in the driver's seat. So even though you might be happy and sad at any given time, you're reacting because of your sadness, you're reacting because of your happiness. So you've got to choose there. And that's with, that's really about emotional intelligence. But he was really focused on the fact that yes, I can be happy and I'm not forgetting what's going on in the world. The other thing was also about staying in the now, staying in the present moment. He's like, you know, I only think about what I have to think about, especially in today's world. There is so much uncertainty. There is so much quick and immediate change. So why waste any energy? Why waste any brainwaves on what we can't control in the future and focus on what you can, the decisions you have to be making in this moment for this moment. The other thing that I want to talk about is that he accepted the fact that he had doubt. He owned his doubt. Yeah, it was doubtful. And he's like, and that's good. You should never show up thinking that it's going to be easy. A doubt is a little bit of, is good. But then I wanted to add, because he talked about also being positive. Doubt is okay when it's balanced out with positivity. When you come having your doubt, but knowing you did the prep and knowing you're going to highlight your strengths and knowing you're going to own your strengths when you get onto the court, whatever that court or playing field is for you. He then also, after the win, he owned his success. He actually applauded himself. It's almost like he patted himself on the back for a job well done. When we've worked hard, when we've done all the prep, when we have all the support and we get the job done, take a moment to just breathe that in and own it. Because only then can you take on the next challenge. A lot, but I want to bring it back. Co-opetition. Thank your opponents. Thank your competitors, whether they are your teammates or whether they are your, you know, your opponents. Thank everyone for showing up and ask everyone to do their best so that you can do your very best and beat them. Number two, it's okay to have all different types of emotions, but at any given time, one emotion is in the driver's seat. So choose wisely. Number three, think about only what you need to be thinking about for this moment. Make the decisions that need to be decided upon now. Don't worry about the future that will come. Four, it's okay to have doubt. Accept that it's normal and it's probably healthy, but balance that doubt with the positivity of your strengths. Know that you've done the work. Know that you've got some strengths to bring to the table. And then when you do do a good job, take a moment and breathe that in and pat yourself on the back.