 satisfieslulululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululu And, um, I actually have not, I've done this hike numerous times, but not actually this length. So it's the farthest distance I have. And I know that. And so I've got this outcome goal. So this is how I'm going to use the outcome goal to my advantage. And I share this because maybe something that helps you too. I'm going to momentarily throughout this hike, I've already done it once, um, visualize myself at the top, visualize myself accomplishing this goal that I've never achieved before. And I'm going to use it to inspire. I'm going to use it to motivate. And then I'm going to tune out of the outcome goal and bring it back into my right, left, right, left. Um, I'm going to get my head where my feet are. I'm going to bring the focus back to the present. And that may be just really focusing on my affirmation, my life mantra, right, left, right, left. I may set intermediate goals, walk a hundred steps or, you know, pick a destination point that I can see and walk to that point. But the point is, I'm not going to live in the outcome goal. I'm not going to live in that space because sometimes when you live in it too long, it's no longer motivating. It's no longer inspiring. It's when will it ever happen? How much more do I have to get there? Will I get there? So distraction comes in, anxiety can come in. And also I'm not in the present moment propelling myself in the moment with my daily, uh, with my moment to moment action. So it's distracting. So use your outcome goals for motivation. That's what they're there for, for inspiration, for motivation, experience yourself there, visualize it, you know, feel it, see it, and then bring it back to your feet to get your head where your feet are and find an intentional cue. That's going to help you be in the moment. That is the best advice because outcome goals are fabulous, but they also suck when they distract us. They also suck when they interfere, when they create more anxiety. That's not what they're meant to do. They're meant to motivate. So let's use it for motivation and how at times you choose, but at times you live into that outcome goal, and then you bring your head back to where your feet are. Hope you like this video. If you do like this video, it would be so great for you to subscribe because that means I'm doing a good job. If you have any questions or comments, you want me to create a video for you, just holler, just put them in the comment section and, uh, I will respond. And thanks for watching and until next time, have a wonderful rest of your day.