 Theyまままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままままま video I'm going to break down five powerful truths from both the Indy 500 and NASCAR races. It's not just about what happened on the track, but what it means off the track for you, for me, for anyone chasing performance under pressure. You'll learn how to make the most of what you've got, how to count on your team and your backup plan, how to embrace the risks that come with real growth, how to ride the highs without crashing in the lows. And there are more ways of winning than just finishing in first place. And if we haven't met yet, I'm Dr. Haley Perlis. I'm a sport and performance psychology expert specializing in applying sport specific techniques to optimize your mindset in sport, in business, and in health. Let's get into it. Lesson number one is making the most with what you've got. Alex Palo's win at the 2025 Indianapolis 500 marked a historic milestone as he became the first Spanish driver to claim victory in this prestigious race. Alex did not have the fastest car and he had to deal with some tire wear and had fuel constraints for the last part of the race. But the ability to work with the factors he faced, making the most of the things he could not change and making the most of the things he could control earned him the win. You see, it's about composure and strategic focus. In all of our situations, there are uncontrollable factors and certainly things we wish were different. Well, we can dwell on them or we can strategically figure out how to make the most with what we have. It's not about throwing your arms up and saying it is what it is. It's accepting your situation with courage, with steadfastness, and committing to the plan you create in the reality of the moment. Lesson number two is to count on your team and your backup plan. In NASCAR, the success of Ross Chastain's team, who worked tirelessly all night to prepare for the backup car, highlights how teamwork and the proper preparation of a plan B are crucial in overcoming obstacles and achieving goals. You see, a crash in practice necessitated a backup car and then Ross Chastain's raced a remarkable journey from starting last 40th car to winning the Coca-Cola 600. I say this often, it's not about being perfect, it's about being resilient. The best athletes are not the perfect athletes. They are the ones that best recover. And sometimes recovery, well, it requires us and our teams to follow through on a plan B. There is an argument that having a plan B can distract from plan A, but only if you let it. If you have your ideal situation and make accommodations in case things don't go as planned, which often happens, you'll have a level of comfort, trust, and belief. And I believe Ross Chastain had that. And that allowed him to stay determined, present, and persistent. Lesson number three is to embrace the risks that come with real growth. Combining NASCAR and the Indy 500, Kyle Larson's attempt at the double to compete in both the Indy 500 and the Coca-Cola 600 ended in crashes in both races. Now he also tried last year in 2024, but the Indy 500 race delays didn't allow him to get to NASCAR on time. But despite the outcomes, his ambition to tackle such a formidable challenge serves as a testament to the human spirit's drive to push boundaries. And with some practice, some determination, some engagement, some strategy planning, go out there and see what you can do. And you may not succeed like Kyle Larson. You may not succeed that in and of itself without, without even the success, whether you have the success or not, is going to help you to grow. Lesson number four is knowing how to ride the highs without crashing in the lows. Sometimes you dominate the day until you don't just ask William Byron. He held nearly 300 laps in the Coca-Cola 600. He won the first three stages and looked unstoppable. Then with just a handful of laps to go, the wind slipped away. That's the gut punch. But we also must remember that the day before in the Xfinity race, Byron was in it. He got a penalty that put him in last place and he was able to race back up to win that race. So the true roller coaster existed in those two days. And that's not just in sport, that's in life. The journey is full of highs and lows. Our journey is. And what matters most is how we manage them. Celebrate the wins, feel the sting of your losses, and then reset, regroup, and rise. No single moment defines you. It's all how you respond to them. The resilience, the emotional discipline, the forward momentum. That's what shapes your true success. That's how you win at life. Lesson number five is there's more than one way to win. You know what else this weekend reminded me of? Yes, crossing the finish line, being in first place is amazing. But it's not the only kind of victory. In the Indy 500, Robert Schmortzmann didn't finish the Indy 500. In fact, his race ended in a terrifying pit lane crash that took out his crew. Everyone's okay. But he still walked away with something powerful, the rookie of the year award. A historic pole position for him and his rookie team, and the respect of the elite motorsports world. Winning can look like growth, like resilience, like courage under fire, like showing up even when things fall apart. So if you've been measuring success by the social podiums alone, it's time to rewrite the scoreboard. What is your personal podium? Where are you already? Where have you already achieved wins? Don't let those go unnoticed. Make sure you mark them down. Make sure you high five, make sure you pat yourself on the back. And even though you set out to have other wins, and maybe it is to be first, please don't underestimate all the other wins you have. They are as important, if not more important in the long run. And if you do have the intention to be first place, these other wins will only help you get that win as well. And if you like the idea of finding your personal podium, my latest book is titled Personal Podium, and you can find a link to it in the descriptions in this video. Until next time, have a wonderful rest of your day. For most excited excited excited excited excited excited excited excited excited excited excited