 beremos.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos.com.beremos. over anything. It's just being ready for your moment. In game one of the NBA playoffs against Orlando Magic, Peyton, well, he didn't start out at the very beginning of the game. But then when he was put onto the court, well, in the first three minutes, he scored 11 points and he finished off with 19 points and three assists. And you heard what he says. He has learned to no longer be frustrated because I'll tell you what that does. If you're sitting on the sidelines in whatever you are doing, but if you're sitting on the sidelines being frustrated that no one's focusing on you, being angry that someone's, you know, doing you a disservice, being worried if you'll ever get out there and be able to play, well, all of that is distraction and none of it is getting your body ready to go out there and perform when you are given the shot. So instead, we have to remember what luck really is. And it's not my quote, but it's a quote that I like. Luck is what happens when opportunity meets preparation. And if you're again, sitting on the sidelines, being frustrated and being angry and being worried, well, you're not necessarily, I don't think, maximizing your preparation. But if you're on the sidelines, like Peyton Pritchard has learned to do, making sure that he's ready physically, emotionally, mentally, and then you get called, well, now you can highlight your strengths. Now you can make the most of your opportunity. And now you can be the luckiest person. Well, in your moment of performance, it's working for Peyton. Let's see if it can work for you. Think about the times when you've wasted time, wasted energy, being frustrated and angry and worried. And maybe those are your moments to visualize. Maybe those are your moments to stay into the game and really be a good team player, giving constructive feedback or just enthusiastic praise. Maybe it's your time to make sure that you're physically, your body's fluid and ready to go if you're doing a physical performance. And then when it's time, when it's your time, well, you can do what an athlete of mine has created. And this athlete actually wrote, created an affirmation for himself and wrote it on his equipment. My time is my time. So then be ready. And then when you're given time, make the most of your time. Just like that athlete that I was working with, my time is my time. Peyton Pritchard has obviously utilized that for himself and he's going out there and well, he's a front runner for an NBA award. What can you do with this mindset growth?