 In my 20-plus years as a sports psychology coach, I've seen athletes train hard, feel ready and confident, but when the pressure hits them, when the time comes, they freeze. They perform way below their potential. They perform below how they do in practice. But what you need to realize is there is a reason why it keeps happening. And once you understand it, you will decrease the probability of it happening to you. So in this video, I'll break down why it's really happening to you. And what you can do to stay calm and what you can do to stay calm and what you can do to stay calm and play like yourself, even in biggest moments. And by the way, if we haven't met, my name is Dr. Haley Perlis. I'm a sports psychology coach and I specialize in applying sports specific techniques to help athletes and high achievers in all life optimize their mental game so that they can perform at their best. Performing below your capability, some people would call it completely choking. It's an interesting concept. And this is what really happens. So you'll have a moment of distraction. Now that distraction may be something that you're anxious about. A fear, a frustration, a worry, a concern, an anger, just a what if. Or you don't really know what the story is you're telling yourself. You can't really identify the thought, the story, but you know that you get distracted. Your focus is certainly not on strategy. It's not in the present moment. Maybe you get caught thinking about something in the past. Maybe you get caught thinking about something in the future. Maybe you get caught thinking about something that is totally irrelevant. What's happening is, is that there's a lot of energy going through your body. And if we can't control our minds in that moment, and if we can't control our emotions in that moment, it's almost like we get cut off at the neck. So your mind is no longer communicating to your body the way you want it to. And what happens is that your body, well, it does a couple of things. One of a couple of things. One is that we call it bracing. It just like freezes. Every muscle that are supposed to work with each other, well, they all work at the same time. Instead of some flexing while the others are relaxing, instead of some working while the other ones are relaxing so that they can be fluid, they all just start tensing together. So call that bracing. And then you lack fluidity. Then you lack coordination. You either speed up or you slow down, but you make mistakes. And then you wonder what just happened because you haven't been practicing like that. Another thing that might happen is you actually may fall back on old habits that you got rid of a whole long time ago. But because your mind and your emotions are totally cut off, right? They're on their own journey right now because of whatever is making you panic and freeze mentally, emotionally. Your body actually resorts to something that's old news for you. That's old habits. And then you're frustrated because you haven't performed like that in so long. You've overcome that. You've already improved. Why is your body now going back to something that you haven't done in ages? So those are really the two things that could happen. You either freeze up and you have no coordination, fluidity, you speed up, you slow down, or your body is literally chopped in half from the neck up. And then your body from the, you know, your actual body goes back to old habits. So what we need to do is identify if you can, where, where do those moments happen for you? Is there a pattern? Is there a habit? Is there a time of day or time of, you know, the performance, whatever activity you're doing? Is there any pattern to it at all that we can call upon? Because if there is a pattern, what we want to do is get ahead of it. We want to be proactive. Now, if you can't pinpoint when it happens, if you just really know, you know, it does happen, but there's no rhyme or reason. Well, then you'll start creating awareness. Okay. But the other, so you might come up with some habits, but you'll be aware of it. You'll be a little bit of anticipation of a little bit of an expectancy of it, but in a way that you're wanting to do something about it. You're wanting to stop it. So it's not, oh no, what if this happens? I'm anticipating to get scared. I'm anticipating to get, you know, distracted. I'm anticipating to freeze. It's more of, okay, this may happen. It's happened before. I'm going to get ahead of it. I'm going to anticipate that it might happen and I'm going to be courageous and I'm going to be, and I'm going to fight it. I'm going to proactively fight against it. So it's a little bit different. If you saw my emotional reaction, one is a feared anticipation, nervous, you know, really anxious about something like that happening. And the other one is more in preparation. I'm going to get mentally tough here and I'm going to make sure that, you know, I'm on alert to it, but I know what to do to prevent it. And if I feel it coming on, I know what to do to conquer it in the moment. And that brings me to my next focus, which is what can you do to conquer it in the moment? I'm a big believer in thinking less, more strategically. I'm going to say that one more time, thinking less, more strategically. Now I understand that many of you who might be watching this video, it's not even wanting to think less. You don't want to think at all. You just want your practice, all the training to just be able to flow right out of you. But again, in those moments of panic, in those moments where obviously something is causing anxiety, which makes you freeze or go back to old patterns, you're obviously having something real big inside here and inside here that's creating the outcome. And just by telling yourself, don't think, it's not going to cut it. It's not a clear, strong enough thought. But what you can do is have an intentional cue. What you can have is a singular thought, a singular action, a singular vision to break the anxiety, kind of throw a wall up, if you will. You can even visualize that. Actually, some of my athletes visualize a wall. You can't get through here anxiety. And then in that space, you're going to focus on something real specific to your performance. Tactical, tactical, strategic. You can choose. It might be a strength that you already have. So you know you do this really well. And you're going to bring that technical, tactical, strategic strength to the present moment. Or you're going to just really focus in on a visual cue. So maybe you're in a performance that's pretty standard. So the vision doesn't change. Let's just do like a track, right? So you've got the track in front of you or swimming. You've got the lanes in front of you. Maybe you're just going to really focus on the line. Maybe you're in a ball sport. You're going to focus on the stitches. You're going to focus on something really specific. And all that does is you dive into that visual cue. And it tunes out the anxiety. But you've got to really zone in with every ounce of effort and energy that you have. It might be a physical cue. So maybe you're going to do something physical. So you can do like a tapping exercise. You could do a specific swinging of the legs. You could do something specific to get you really anything. Something specific physical that allows you, again, to tune out everything else. And it commands you to tune into the work, doing something physical. Maybe it's a verbal. I love this. It's from a movie, For Love of the Game. But I love this. Clear the mechanism. Clear the mechanism is an affirmation that will, again, tune out any of the anxiety, any of the distractions. And that is like your cue to tune into the work. So attentional cues can be visual, something you're staring at. It can be verbal, something you say. Clear the mechanism. It can be something physical, something you do with your body. And that is a pattern interrupt. That's what those attentional cues are. It's a pattern interrupt. And then you get to work. And you have to choose for yourself what strategy you want to focus on. I'm not a big believer in don't think. I'm a big believer in having a strategy, technical, tactical. And that is something that you rehearse. You rehearse. And you don't have to think about a lot. In fact, you just have to think about one. And when you stay really clear on that one focus, you can trust that your body will then do everything it needs to do, everything you've been training it to do. So last, kind of bringing it all together. That freezing up. Something is going on. And you may not even be able to pinpoint it. You actually think you may be going blank. But there is something anxiety-ridden that is distracting you. Don't worry about it. It's okay if you can't pinpoint it. If you can, that's great because then we can work on conquering those specific thoughts. But if you can't, just know that in those moments, when you have that anxiety thoughts and that emotional experience, you kind of get cut off at the neck. And your body either just freezes, lacks coordination and fluidity, or you resort to old bad habits that you already got rid of, but they're creeping up and coming up to say hello. So in that moment, you first want to have an intentional cue. Something physical, something verbal, something visual. You decide. And what that does is puts a wall up between your distractions and you. It is in a pattern interrupt. And then from there, you get really into thinking less, more strategically. But you want to think specifically about technique, tactics, strategy. Either a strength that you have or something that you want to do right here in the moment. But you got to rehearse this. You have to have this prepared. Less, more strategic in your mind. And that will calm your emotions. And then that will let your body do what you've been training it to do when it matters most.