 PHAR PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , PHARM droite , play it safe, and holding yourself back. So in this video, I'll show you how perfectionism hurts performance and a trick to help you play more freely and confidently. And by the way, if we haven't met, my name is Dr. Haley Perliss. I'm a sport and performance psychology expert, and I specialize in sport-specific techniques to help you optimize your mental game and perform at your best. I strive to be perfect, and I want you to strive to be perfect. Who wouldn't want to be perfect? But if we demand perfection, well, then we're causing ourselves harm. Perfection is an unrealistic goal all of the time. In fact, I would almost argue that it's an unrealistic goal, period. And even when you achieve what you think would be perfect, if you're a high achiever, well, then that's no longer perfect because you'll want to know what's next. So demanding perfection is really just adding unnecessary negative anxiety, and that causes you to freeze. That causes you to get tense. It's a distraction, and it robs you of your full potential, robs you of realizing what you're truly made of. In addition to striving for perfection, but remember I use the word strive, not demand. In addition to striving for perfection, I have another equally as important intention, and that's to be the best recoverer I can be. Think about sports. The best athletes are not the perfect athletes. The best athletes that stand on top of the podium are the ones that best recover. So in addition to going out there and giving it all that I can to be perfect, equally, when I make a mistake or when my team makes a mistake, I want me and my team to be the best recoverer I can be and let everyone else dwell on the mistake, dwell on the emotions that come with it. Not me. I'm going to reset. Not you. I want you to think about resetting, knowing that that is an equal part of your performance. Again, striving to be perfect, and equally, if not even more, wanting to be the best recoverer I can be. In your mental imagery, in your visualization, go ahead and image yourself being perfect, but don't just stop there. You can image yourself having the perfect performance and everything going your way. Why not? That's motivation. That's excitement. And that is something, again, to strive for. In addition, equally, I want you to start imaging yourself making a mistake and quickly picking yourself back up. A teammate making a mistake and you quickly going to help the team recover. When you do that, now you're going to be practicing for realistic opportunities. Now you're going to be ready for both. And now you'll be closer, if not unstoppable, to meeting your goals. If you like how all this sounds, but you're a little bit unsure on how to apply this for your specific performance, maybe you want some one-on-one coaching. Well, in the description link before, there's an opportunity to work with me, connect with me one-on-one. So click on that link and connect with me, and we'll see how I can best support you, strive for perfection, but also be the best recoverer you can be. Thanks for watching. And until next time, have a wonderful rest of your day.