 What separates good athletes from great ones? It's not always skill, strength, or talent. It's how they think. Champions have a different mindset, especially when the competition gets tough. And in this video, I'll break down how top athletes think during training, competition, and pressure moments so you can learn it and start using it for yourself. And by the way, if we haven't yet met, my name is Dr. Haley Perlis. I'm a performance psychologist and I specialize in applying for training. Sports specific techniques to help sports specific techniques to help athletes to help athletes to help athletes optimize their mental game and perform at their best. Top athletes, the athletes that are able to actually perform better in high pressure situations, they have this heightened concentration during tough games, during, again, pressure moments. Their heightened concentration actually allows them to zone in on what matters most, strategy, tactics. It's an interesting thing, but for many athletes, the pressure actually distracts us, the pressure actually distracts us. We either get so pigeonhole that our focus gets too narrow, or we can't focus in on anything and our vision or attention becomes so broad that we can't clue into anything. We may also get distracted with our inner turmoil or external factors that have nothing to do with the competition at hand. Or we get distracted and only focus on the results and the consequences. What will happen if we can't do with the consequences. What will happen if we can't do as well as we can't do as well as we can't. But not with top athletes. They have such heightened concentration during these moments. They actually get to zone in on what is relevant, on what matters most. So how do great athletes create this heightened concentration that allows them to zone in and perform their best? Well, they're not afraid of pressure. They're not afraid of high expectations. They're not afraid of big competitions. In fact, they embrace it. They look for it. They want it. It's a sign of commitment. It's a sign of confidence. It's a sign of, well, that they made it. It's actually, you know, a high five that they're doing a good job. They're doing something right to have earned this pressure, to have earned the spot where people have expectations of them, to earn the spot that they believe in themselves. So that they can do something. So that's number one. We want to welcome the high pressure competitions. Secondly, the great athletes utilize their energy inside that anxiety that some athletes feel the sweaty palms, butterflies in your stomach, muscle tension. It can be perceived as negative if it's only about energy, anxiety, but it also can be perceived as good if we're using it as energy. This is energy in my body. This is energy in my body ready to help me perform. So yes, sometimes we interpret it as anxiety. Don't like the feel and then it just gets worse. But if we can start to experience, you know, the butterflies and the sweaty palms and the muscle tension. And at first, when you feel it, it might be anxiety producing, but then you can switch your story and say, wait a second. This is my body getting prepared. I'm sorry for you for that. I'm sorry for you for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry for that for that. I'm sorry for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that for that mind, focus on your plan, get into that strategy. All three of those things are going to be able to heighten your concentration on what's relevant, on what matters most, and you'll be able to zone in. And that's going to separate you from all the other athletes who don't know how to embrace competition and be their best competitor. Until next time, have a wonderful rest of your day.