 How many times have you told yourself to just relax before a competition? Sounds helpful, but for most athletes, it actually does more harm than good. In this video, I'll break down why just relax isn't the best advice, and what to say and do to actually help you perform the best in competitions. And by the way, if we haven't met, I'm Dr. Haley Perliss. I'm a performance psychology expert specializing in applying sport-specific tools and techniques to help you to help athletes to help athletes to help athletes to help athletes to help athletes optimize their mental game so that you can perform and compete at your best. I understand why you're telling yourself to just relax, but has it ever worked? Are you even capable of it? The athletes that I see, and also when I was an athlete, when you are anxious and you have a tense body, it's really difficult to just relax. Don't you think that's really difficult to just relax? Don't you think? So there's another technique in sports psychology. We call it progressive muscular relaxation. So for example, if you're feeling anxious and you're feeling tense, what I'd like you to do is actually tense even more. Hold that for 10 seconds, and then you'll have some place to relax to. Not only that, but this tensing and relaxing is really stressing and releasing. And this combination of stress release, stress release, stress release, creates energy creates energy in your body. Go ahead. If you do this a few times, you're going to start to feel some tingling in your upper body. And that tingling is blood flowing through your body. And blood carries oxygen. And oxygen is energy. And that is what you want to perform and compete at your best. I understand that this isn't going to help you, right? Tense body creates, well, you either will go too fast or you go too slow. You're lose coordination. However, if you lose coordination. However, if you first tense and then recover and you engage in the progressive muscular relaxation, not only will you now release all that tension, but you're also going to create energy that's going to help you propel. It's going to help you be more efficient. It's going to help you be faster. If that's what your sport requires of you. Certainly going to help you to compete the way you've been practicing because now you have a body that can do what you've been training it to do. Go ahead. Experiment with that. If you have an equipment like a tennis racket or a ski pole or a golf club, you can actually squeeze that equipment really tight for those 10 seconds and then relax it. And if you don't have any of that, of those equipments in your sport, well then just go ahead and tense an upper body and then relax. I'm showing you a video of my upper body. So I'm not going to show you flexing and pointing my toes, but you can do that as well. If you find that your jaw gets tight, that's where you fight. You can, you know, move around your jaw can open really hard, stretch really hard, tense, and then relax anything you want. Tighten your abs as if someone's going to come and punch you in the gut and then relax. Go through your whole body part or just choose one that you find maybe the most tense in your sport competition. Try it on for size. Experiment with it. Let that juice, let that energy then take you where you want to go in competition.