 irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres irres ir and I was given a slide deck by someone amazing who had given this presentation before me. And I don't, I forgot my lesson. And for whatever reason, I felt compelled, maybe it was an old habit from when I first started out. I felt compelled to be like him and I'm not like him. And I didn't get where I am by being anyone else but me. And it was a lesson because afterwards, I'll be completely honest, I didn't feel my best. Now, I'm sure I did a great job. I'm sure no one else noticed, but I noticed and it didn't feel fulfilling to me. And so I just have to relearn that lesson, which I just did. And so, you know, repetition. So I relearn it and I remember what makes me, me. And this person is amazing for his strengths and for his qualities. And I got to where I am for my strengths and my qualities. And the same goes for you. We can look outside and admire and wow, like use for motivation. And maybe there are some things that we can learn from, but to try to completely mimic someone else completely without bringing your own strengths, without bringing your own qualities. You're just not never, in my humble opinion, going to be your best performer and you're not going to feel your best. So my lesson is to look outside, look at this role model of mine, look at how he tells stories and, um, how he explains things. And then the trick is to integrate it into my stories, integrated into the way I teach the concepts, not trying to be somebody I'm not, how to learn and always bring it back to make my strengths even better than they already are. Where can you apply this lesson into your life? Maybe you already are pat yourself on the back, but it's just bringing it back to the surface as a reminder. Let me and my experience yesterday remind you for whatever it is that you're doing. The best way to perform your best is to be your best and no one else. the best way to start the job is to be your best job. So let me start the job of the job of the job of the