 When getting panicked, most athletes tell themselves to stay calm. When getting panicked, most athletes tell themselves to stay calm. Sounds like the right thing to say, but what if it's the exact thing that's hurting your performance? What if it's the exact reason you start to panic? In this video, I'll break down while trying to stay calm might be hurting you more than helping, and what to do instead. And by the way, if we haven't met, my name is Dr. Haley Perlis. I'm a performance psychology coach, and I specialize in applying sport-specific techniques to help athletes and all high performers optimize their mental game and perform at their best. Staying calm, again, is a popular term. And I'm not saying we have it wrong. The truth is that most of us actually perform. Our bodies perform better when we have a calm mind and our emotions are not running amok. We're in control of our emotions. So I get the premise of staying calm. However, staying calm doesn't tell me anything about what I'm supposed to do in order to stay calm. Staying calm is just an instruction. It's just almost a wish. And really what it does is remind me that I'm not calm. So now I'm telling myself to stay calm, but without really any instruction that's tailored to me, that's tailored to you to help you achieve that. So I get the premise of staying calm, but I don't actually like us to use those words. Instead, let's do some prep work and ask yourself, what actually achieves a calm state for you? Is it calming music? Is it affirmations? Is it dialogue with a friend? Some self-talk with you? Is it certain physical movements? Stretching, small movements? Is it playing a game? Is it staring out in fresh air? Is it getting fresh air? You really have to decide what allows you to achieve the outcome of calmness. And it might be one thing for everything, but it also may differ depending on the situation you're in, depending on the emotional moods you're in, depending on the circumstances. So you really have to do the prep work. Ask yourself, what is required of you? Not of anybody else. This is 100% within your control. What is required of you in order to achieve a calm state? And then that activity is what you go ahead and tell yourself to do. That activity is what you instruct yourself to do. Those are the key words you use. That's the plan of attack, the plan of action you incorporate to help you achieve a calm state. Staying calm doesn't tell you to do anything, doesn't allow you to do anything. It's really just a reminder that you're not calm. And that reminder can increase your heart rate, can increase your muscle tension, can elevate the emotional experience. So what is it that you need to do to achieve a state of calm specifically optimal for your upcoming performance? And then that is what you instruct yourself to do. No more just staying calm. How are you going to stay calm? And then see how that actually makes a stronger move forward to achieving that state and performing the way you know you can. What do you do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to do to