 Rirellirellllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll what you'd like them to be. This coach was talking about how that's actually what you want. If you have the grit, which I can help you develop, if you have the grit to show up even though you may not like the conditions. So from my perspective, you can have an opinion about the conditions, but your opinion, say this with all the love in my heart, doesn't matter. You have to be able to navigate, negotiate, and still be on offensive play. Here I come. And that's really the optimal setting for you because, and here's the drum roll, this coach said, if the conditions are perfect, that's not good for you because all your competitors have the same perfect conditions. So it actually gets even more difficult for you to make a move. But when the conditions aren't your preference, guess what? They're probably not anybody's preference. And so you can gain the most competitive advantage by letting them complain and you not letting your opinion matter and figuring out the strategy, the tactics, the solution to navigate, and then you gain a competitive advantage. So back to what this coach said, you don't want it to be perfect because if it's perfect for you, it's perfect for everyone. That is such an amazing way of stating it. Simple, clear, and certainly hit me. I mean, I know about that concept and you probably know about the concept, but how wonderfully simplified. If it's perfect for you, then it's perfect for everyone. And then you don't have a competitive advantage. When it's not perfect for you, therefore it's not perfect for anyone. You can gain a competitive advantage by having an opinion, sure, but not letting your opinion matter and focusing in on navigating, figuring out, negotiating how you are going to be on offensive play. Here I come, no matter the situation. And let everyone else worry, be upset, and not you. That's mental grit.