All right, you guys. For the first time in a long time, we have Ashen back on on JTV. It's so nice to see you, Ashton. Thank you. Back in Vegas. I know. I'm back in Vegas. Um, thank you so much for having me. I love Jay insisted. Diddy insisted. Oh my goodness. Well, thank you, Jay, so much for having me. Um, this is my third time on JCOOL TV. Um, I think, right? I don't I don't I remember the first time. I think we were in Arizona. Uh, yes. The second time was at um Flex Loose's gym. Um, the Dragon Layer. Yes. Okay. Nice. Yes. So, number three. Awesome. Yeah. So, now we're here back in Vegas. I really want to talk to you about everything you've been through since I saw you last, but today we're going to train first. What are we training? Glutes. glutes. Today we're going to do a little bit of touchup. So, there's not anything crazy. Obviously, I'm um 7 days out now from the pro. You look great. I'm Oh, that was good timing. Yes, very good timing. That's why when you reached out, I was like, "This is perfect." Awesome. Which show are you doing? Um so, Pittsburgh Pro. So, that's going to be very big show. Um a lot of heavy hitters doing that show in literally every division. So, it's going to be good. Awesome. Um and then after that, we don't know. So, all right. Hopefully, we win. So, there's nothing till the Olympia. I know. That would be very nice. All right. Good to see you, Ashton. What were you saying? I was saying um so since we're we're just going to do like a little glute touch-up training cuz I do all of my hard training during the week like um and then I'll have like just a little touch-up day where I get to come in and just, you know, really focus on mind muscle connection, not force so much, you know, weight. Um which is nice, you know. I mean, you're pretty much ready at 7 days out. Exactly. the there's not much left to really do. Um so, you know, we're just going to see get some glutes um activated and then we'll move on to compound movement and go from there. Oh, wow. This is a lot heavier than I thought it was going to be. I couldn't even open it. Well, I typically do a plate No, leave. So, leave a play. Oh, I see. We'll leave a play. It doesn't matter. And then we're going to put this one on instead. And we'll see how this is. Oh, it doesn't have to be equal on each side. I got No, which is nice. Gotcha. Gotcha. Oh, there's the Olympia logo on the plates. That's kind of cool. Yeah. So, they have um So, it's like the Olympia approved gym. So, a lot of people that are coming in to stay obviously for the Olympia, they'll come train here. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, they had a big uh big opening when they actually put the Olympia sign on the wall. I know. Was so nice. Yeah. No, this is stuck. Oh, yeah. This is stuck. Oh, okay. I'm like, something's happening right now because this Ashlin, I'm so glad to see you. I can't believe how long it's been since I saw you last. I mean, I know. Years. Since 2020. Well, that wasn't the last time, but that was the first time we met was 2020. Yeah. Wow. No, it was 2019, I think. So, I think it was 2019. Yeah. I think it was before the quarantine. That's crazy. I've been following you, though. I mean, that's the good thing about social media. you can follow your friends. Yeah. So, it's great. You've been doing so well for yourself. You've won so many pro shows and stuff. I'm so happy for you. You're really climbing up the ladder as far as, you know, the Arnold, the Olympia. So, tell me, last time I heard from you, you were basically just moving to you were in Vegas for a little bit and then you were moving to Florida. Mhm. So, why did you move to Florida? What? Um, so I moved to Florida. Um, honestly just a different scenery, I think. Um, I had one of my really good friends that lived out there. Okay. And she kind of convinced me to come out there. So I did that for a little while. I was actually there for 4 years. Four years. And I found my way back over here to Vegas on the West Coast. Wow. Yep. And um um I mean you were how long were you in Arizona for when I met you? Um you were married then? I was. Yeah. Yeah. Um like maybe two years. Okay. Two years ish. Yeah. Give or take a little. Yeah. So I'm surprised you left Florida. Why did you leave Florida? Why did I leave Florida? So I left Florida because my boyfriend lives here. Yeah. So he lives here and there's just a really good community here for fitness and I I have a lot of good friends here. So just felt like, you know, it could be a good change. Yeah. The culture for fitness and bodybuilding is huge in Vegas now. I don't know what happened. I think the quarantine kind of created that. Yeah. You know, and everybody kind of sort of left California and then kind of split between Vegas and Texas and Florida, you know. Yeah. So now we have all those gym. I can't believe how many great small mom and pop gym there is in Vegas. It's unbelievable. Oh, there's so many to choose from. Like, there's more opening. Yeah. Oh, wow. Okay. Well, I'm excited. I mean, I I like to I like to dip and just kind of see what kind of environment, scenery, things like that. There are. You've been training at Torture for the most part. Yeah. Cuz it's only like you said, 7 minutes from your house. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's super close to us. Um, we have strength culture, which we also really love. Yeah. Um, so we traveled there, which honestly is like another 5 minutes, maybe not far at all. Um, so everything's pretty close to us, honestly. Like if we wanted to bounce around to any gym really over here. Um, it would just be maybe an extra 10 minute, 15 minute drive depending on where we want to go. How how did people receive you in Vegas? Like how was the the the people living here? Were they glad to see you or Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's been um very very welcoming. Nice. So, I mean I honestly I already feel so at home here. Oh, you do? Yes. It normally takes me a long time to adjust somewhere. That's great. Like in Florida, it took me quite some time to adjust there. Actually, here automatic. Sergio said the same thing, too. He kind of moved here cuz he had to get out of Spain and, you know, Dubai and all that stuff. And he kind of like, you know, I know a lot of people in Vegas. I'll just try it. And he wasn't expecting much. And he's really happy. Really happy. Good. Yeah. It's great here. Yeah. It's awesome. talk to me about your your career. You've really been uh climbing up the the rank fast and um made a lot of progress. I mean, I remember the first time we we filmed there was a different person altogether. I know it's crazy. So, how old are you now? Um can you tell? Huh? Can you tell? How old am I? Yeah. How old am I? I'm 33. I had to think about that for a second. That's good. You're right in your prime. It's perfect. Yeah. So, I just turned 33 in um January. So, I just had a birthday. That's awesome. Yeah. So, you got third at the Arnold, which was a big placing for you. Oh, yeah. Cuz you were saying, you know, off camera, um a lot of the, you know, pro shows you do um you do very well. Sometimes on the t on the big ones, it's a little tougher. Of course. Obviously. Of course. Yeah. I mean, you're going against champs. Like, you know, when you go to the Olympia, everyone's a champ. That's right. Everybody. That's right. Um, so, you know, it's the best of the best. So, when you're going to pro shows, you never know who can pop up, obviously. So, that's always, you know, going into any pro show, you just never know who's going to be there. Yeah. You can't take it for granted. Never. Never. Um, and then obviously anyone can surprise you. Yeah. So, you just never know. um uh especially now people are just getting better and better and better. So the quality of athletes is honestly incredible. So, you know, it's never easy going into these pro shows. And even if you have more of like, you know, um a status or more of a name or just more of a like a um a rapport, I guess you could say, with you know, your shows and uh results wise, you know, that's always something I think that the judges see obviously, like who's the contenders showing up, of course. Um but that's no guarantee whatsoever. So, um, it's just something that, you know, you go into each show giving 100% and see what happens. So, that's all we can do. Yeah. Yeah. How was it to win third place at the Arnold? Unbelievable. Like, it really was, you know, whenever they called the the remaining like three that are out there. So, the final call out um and they called my name. I was like, cuz there's always so much going on, especially when the judges are calling certain numbers and certain names and doing all this stuff. Sometimes it's taking me a second to really realize like, wait, what call out is this? You know, where are these people placed? You know, how many people were standing next to me? Like sometimes it's very hard to see those type of things. So, um, a lot of times I don't really know where I'm at for a second. So, when I realized I was like, "Oh, wow. I'm in the top three." Like when they called us out, obviously I I realized. Yes. And I was just I was like stunned. Like I was like this is incredible. So very very blessed to be there. It was such an honor. So you got sixth place at the Olympia last year. You missed the top five just by one. Yep. Just by one. Bittersweet. Well, top six is still great. Absolutely. Yeah. So what are you you're about Okay. Okay. So, you're 7 days out from the Pittsburgh Pro. And the Pittsburgh Pro this year is going to be a huge event. Absolutely. A huge event for all the classes like you were talking about. So, how do you how do you hope to do at the at the Pittsburgh? O um we're coming for the title. You know, that's what we're coming for. Um you know, the chips will fall where they fall. And I have a very very good feeling just about what we're bringing. And that's where my focus is. My focus is the improvements that I needed to make from the Arnold to here. Yeah. Um we've done that and um I'm going to just continue to take that feedback and wow the judges every time I get on stage that's always my goal. Yeah. Um and where they end up putting us is always out of our control. Yeah. Um, but we are coming in with the mindset of leaving there the channel. Now, if you win Pittsburgh, that's it's not just like a regular show. It's it's like a big one. It's a big one. You know, it's a Manion show. It's That's right. It's a gym manion show. So, I think it's, you know, what happens over there, I think, is going to really set that person in very good grace for the Olympia. I think 100%. I think that um you know they're they're trying to prove a point of how prestigious this show is and they're doing an amazing job at doing that just by um you know obviously the athletes that are showing up and you know the prize money is so much you know better than it's it's better than it's ever been. Um, so I think that they're putting so much into this for the athletes, which I personally just appreciate so much, which was one of the biggest reasons I wanted to do that show was just when you have something that you know is being put into so much like um the what's the word I'm looking for? Like um like you know how there's so much that goes into the Olympia, there's so much that goes into the Arnold, like all of those things. Pittsburgh wants to be that and they want to prove a point about making it big and I want to be a part of that. It's like the athletes want to be a part of that. You know what I'm saying? I think you're doing a good job because there's a lot of excitement behind it. I think everyone's excited about Exactly. It gets people hyped up. It does. So like what athlete doesn't want to be a part of something like that? Just like the same thing with, you know, the Olympia. It's like a hype. It's like you want to do it. Of course. Wow. That's awesome. Seven days. So hopefully you won't have to compete again. But if you do have to compete again, do you have something that you are planning on or something close to is it something close to it or Yeah, there's actually a few York Yeah, there's New York that's the weekend after. Um I know that there's Miami, there's DC, there's a few like kind that are kind of like trickled in there over the next couple weeks. Okay. Um and it's honestly just going to depend again on feedback and what direction my coach Yeah. you know, wants me to go. Um because at the end of the day, it's his say. So, of course, you know, no contracts will be sent in until we figure out what's going to be the best game plan for us. Well, hopefully it gives you a little bit if if you win that, it gives you a bit time to kind of reset a little bit before prepping for the Olympia. Yeah. I mean, that's always what you want as an athlete. You want to be able to come into, you know, one of the biggest shows fresh. Yes. Um, which is why I was so thankful that I had 10 weeks to prepare for the Pittsburgh because it's another big show that you're having to prepare for. Um, and you know, with the adjustments that we needed to make, we needed that time. So that's why instead of competing, you know, in between the Arnold and Pittsburgh, I took that time to utilize as much as we could. Yeah. Um, so we could very smart. How long have you been competing? Yeah. So, how long how long ago did you get into this this bodybuilding game? 10 years. It's 10 years this year. You were 20 years. 2015. Wow. Okay. Time flies, huh? Yeah. It's crazy to think about. Yeah. Do you know how much Cuz it doesn't feel like 10 years. I know. Tell me about it. But it's that's the way it is once you become older than 18. When you're young, all you want to do is be 18. And then once you become an adult, years just flies by. Oh, yeah. It's crazy. I hate it. People always say it, but that's true. It's true. You know, life gets faster and faster and faster. That's true. People before they say, "Oh, what's your five year plan?" Five years. That's so far away. No, it's not. No. So, how much longer you want to do this? So, you win the Olympia. Yeah. That I mean that's always been my that's been like Okay. So, when I first started, I just wanted to get to the Olympia. Like I was like, "Oh, I just want to get there." But then when I got there and my first Olympia getting eighth place, I was like, be good. Yeah. I was like, okay, maybe I can be good at this. You know, like I I actually started thinking like, okay, I just built your confidence to to keep going and see what happens. Um, you know, there's been a lot of bumps along the way. So, it has not been, you know, straight line. No. Whatsoever. Um, lots of learning curves, lots of things, you know, life happening. But um you know I feel like I'm in a very good spot. Um you know my coach is amazing. We've made great like we're just good together. Yeah. Um we've made great progress together. Three years you said would you Yeah. This will be my third Olympia qualified. Huh? That's Neil Cash. Neil Cash is is his name. Um so we've been working together since 2023. And yeah, so once we get our Olympia qualification this year, then that'll be our third one and then we'll see where it leads us. Nice. Yeah. Wow. So to answer your question, I don't know. I think it's for as long when do I when do I want to hang it up? I don't know. I really don't. I think it's going to be one of those things that it's either going to be like it's something that like mentally like something has to happen for me to mentally be like, you know, maybe this just isn't what God wants me to do. Like maybe this just isn't supposed to be my path. Yeah. Um, or I keep getting closer and I keep getting closer and then I'm just going to keep going. As long as I'm healthy and I'm fitting the criteria and I'm improving and I'm meeting this the mark that they want me to meet, then I'm going to keep going until I get that title. I I'm just asking because I'm wondering if for some people like you that are like uh you know at at the top of the game uh once you win the Olympia and you've reached the ultimate goal is that enough or you like you know I want to get I want to get more than one you know that's like uh or you say you know what I've done it I won it all I'm good now I'll do something else you know I think that that decision is always really hard because I think that it's awesome to defend your title and I think that you everyone probably wants to do that because I think that it's more of like when you get that, you know, I think for me because I'm at the age that I'm at and I don't know how long it would take me to get that title, like let's let's just say it's another 3 years, okay? Um, you know, then I'm 36 at that point and it's like, you know, eventually I want to have kids, eventually I want to do that stuff. So for me, I just think for where I'm at, probably wouldn't make sense. I would probably just be done. Yeah. Like I would I that's my goal. I would be done. That's a good career. It's an amazing career and you know, I've done everything that I've wanted to do and now I can pour into my business. I can pour into my relationship. I can be a mother, do all the things that I wanted to do, travel, do whatever and actually enjoy life. And that's honestly what I want to do because pre as much as I get to enjoy life in the short amount of time that I I do have throughout the year. Yeah. And I do take advantage of that, trust me. But it's not very much time. So, you know, I I when I'm in prep, I'm strict and I do what I need to do and I try not to travel a lot unless I'm like really far out. Yeah. Um or unless it's something like down the road where I can just drive, you know, like I don't try to do anything crazy. I do the minimal. I'm, you know, I'm serious about it. You kind of have to live in in a box a little bit. I do. And it's just one of those things where it's like, well, I've been doing this for so long that it feels a little bit normal to me, but at the same time, I'm also very aware Yeah. of how much I'm missing out on. Yes. Um, so yeah, I mean, of course, I want to get to that goal and I'm going to do everything I can to get there, but there is life on the other side. Well, you seem very grounded and very in a good place, you know. I'm happy for you. Thank you. And uh it's nice to see you. It's nice that uh you're doing so well and I'm glad you're here. I'm glad you're in Vegas. I get to see more more of you. Yes, I am here anytime. And I really appreciate you, Jay. Um you know, for just contacting me and having me on cuz you guys are awesome. So, I appreciate it. Well, good luck in in Pittsburgh in seven days and I'm sure I will see you at the Olympia. Yes. Thank you. In 2025. Thank you so much. All right. Bye, guys. Really cool. They have like Look at that. So, they actually have a wall of fame at torture. Show me your picture, Ashton. We are right here. What show was that? This was Republic of Texas. This was last year. Okay. Nice. Yeah. Awesome. Congratulations. Thank you. Made on the wall of fame. I know. I feel special. No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones go on you. I kept the script. I roll the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights.