All right. So, uh, here I got a more warm up doing some back today. About 2 months away from my start of my Olympia P. You have Brian doing the pull-ups to start with more assisted and uh allow to get a little more squeeze with the assistant weight today. That's actually the first exercise start. I did t but all right. So we got the one arm row. What we're really trying to do bring the long forward motion back trying to really stretch the lat. What I'm trying to work on. So as you can see he's bringing the front of the dumbbell to his hip. Okay. Really getting that leg. 3 4 8 9 12 Heat. Heat. the bent bar row. So, what I'm actually trying to do here, I used to bend over a lot more. Trying to stand a little up with it. Trying to get a stretch like this and pull the waist. Okay. really try to bring in the lower lats and not hit the overall basketball. Heat. Heat. All right. So, we got the T bar row doing it off the floor here. So, our main objective is just to get as much contractions as possible with the heaviest weight possible. 10 or 12 reps like really hitting that mid back. Heat. Heat. 11. So behind 10 or 12 reps. Really trying to get that detail. All right, Guys, we're doing the two arm dumbbell row. So, we're trying to pinpoint the chest area. So, we can really get that contraction in the back. Okay. Still trying to fire the lower lat and upper. So, what we're going to try to do is we're going to try to row them. Get that deep stretch and come back. Turning the dumbbells. Try to bring it back just like a Christmas tree. 10 or 12 reps. Heat. Heat. Focus on the pull over to finish. Really trying to stretch the last pull machine. Really get that pull. So we get that width on the glass. Also hit the lower region. Heat. Heat. Hi guys, I want to thank you guys for the continuous support of And uh we got the new website page up and running now. And uh you guys check it out all jc color TV jer.com. The newest video I distributed is now in transit to all the customers that pre-ordered back in orders this week and uh still hitting it out. Starting serious training now 290 today. So working my way up and trying to leave out at the same time. So, I want to thank of course Brian for always supportive for training and of course the camera guy Nate who uh is always here to catch us uh hopefully keep the site up to date now every 10 days as I uh start my preparation for preolympia I think