 and consistencyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx get that working. I get to take a trip out and you know we were in New York for this workshop and then I just started to make our home base here in Boston as many of you people know this is where it all started for me about 50 miles west of here so we still have all our shows you know every year out here usually in the spring the fall so we're leading into that's what the workshop was for in New York over at Steve Weinberger's gym over there we had kind of a get-together and a lot of greats come out there a lot of the athletes and then of course all our people that are gonna be participating in the New England shows but I don't mind the weather so much everyone always thinks because I live in Vegas I'm not prepared I mean I grew up in this I was in the East Coast until 99 everyone's dressed pretty warm here about midday here and usually my routine is you know get up in the morning do the fast the cardio eat some breakfast dig into some business and then take a little step away you know this is coming towards the tail end of the trip like I said this was to be a forecast of I guess two to four inches today so we see how that pans out luckily we're not leaving till tomorrow tomorrow night so we'll get to gym hub and see what's going on today is gonna be caps to start as you guys know and show you guys a couple different different ways to do the calf training and a couple of pre-workout here a little pump for veil and amplify a combination so I do one-on-one so I talk about this pretty often about you know prioritizing body parts so what I'll pretend to do is most of the time on my chest they always start with caps so right now there's no standing calf machine here so normally I use a Smith machine I'm gonna start with seated calf raises and do a couple feel sets and then work up into more of the working sets but pretty simple so I'm gonna focus on like 12 reps I remember that one two motion so what you'll see me do is do kind of like a pop-up and then a complete contraction I always talk about the full stretch when doing calves I think that's probably the most asked question on how do I build bigger calves and honestly you know people are going to struggle because it's one of those fiber difference type body parts where you don't realize how much you're using your calves until you get an injury so what I'll do is usually do that that motion where I pop up and then really pop up to to get the extra contraction as I go through the motion so remember 45 60 seconds between each set and keep rolling okay we're not gonna pyramid the weight too much on this one but like I said couple feel sets and then we'll do usually two or three working sets now could I go up and wait absolutely is it necessary probably not for you guys just chill trying to put on the mass for sure always pyramid in my opinion depending what your strength is that's what we call intensity so we're gonna do standing calf raises on the Smith machine so if you guys don't have a standing calf machine which I think is probably I don't know people have this whole thing on what the best calf exercise is listen I always said the donkey calves which we don't have one here which is you know the pad in your back but this is gonna be probably I think second to that so standing calf raises now sometimes I would suggest guys to put some some sort of like a two by four or some plates or whatever I'm not gonna do that but usually what I'll do is try stand it to create that space and that contraction but remember this is my first set so I'm gonna show kind of a little beach but I just want to show how you kind of make shift these things so Smith machine easy make it into a standing calf machine same one two motion I talk about same rep range 8 to 12 so for you guys that constantly say well I can't get big calves because I don't have the genetics listen my calves weren't big in the beginning I'll be honest took me a while to develop them so don't make excuses prioritize those body parts so if anyone sees me training calves they always say how Jay's doing chest today remember in 10 C stays you know we're in a nice quiet gym today private gym but 45 60 seconds boom we roll with it so shoulder width feet yeah now you know a lot of pros what people like I don't even bother training my calves because they just don't change but I still think keep that strength in there you know keep shocking them do something you know I don't think any body part should be left behind I mean you might back off on a couple things here and there but don't just totally ignore all the body parts that makes sense lessons from the experienced alright so a couple warm upsets so what I usually start with on this incline is to place aside okay I tend to keep to seat pretty low because I always talk about the arch really get that contraction now I like doing a machine is usually my starting I mean you guys train at home or you don't have specialized equipment obviously I've always started with incline presses just because when I first started as a teenager you can look back at the pitchers I had a chest that went from here to here it was really cut off at the top so I had to learn how to really keep the shoulders back and press so what I'll do is I get these sets going kind of feel sets get kind of the motion and I'll pyramid the weight up probably go to three today but this is always my first starting move when it is available so low seat you'll see I just keep the chest out not all the way up just enough to contract the chest I'm squeezing the chest through every rep I look like I'm straining but I'm not I'm just trying to get that mind to muscle connection so I envision the upper chest right there so the top of that rep is really what I want to feel the most contraction okay so I already have a pump it's my second set didn't count reps but just get a nice little burn and then we'll add some weight to this bad boy so go up a quarter on each side so the rest time is still the same it's kind of pushing through so every rep is like the first one that's the ultimate goal you'll never see me do force reps not really necessary I don't think especially now but even I was training full capacity I never really went crazy on force reps I mean you see me probably FST 7 those things but my goal is fatigue the muscle still get out of gym and feed it but don't over exhaust because I'm training so many consistent days now I definitely don't want to be sore and have to worry about recovery as much okay I'm gonna go up a 10 is it necessary to pyramid the weights I don't think if you muscle doesn't really know it all comes down to the contractions so someone tells you you have to go up and wait they get we get stronger it's more just just kind of voluntary in a sense but making sure I'm staying hydrated and obviously the muscles have to stay nice and full all right that's exercise number one so when I come to gym hub there's a lot of piece of equipment I brag about one of them is this leverage chest press now there's a lot of different pieces here as you can kind of see shoulder incline chest press and then you have a back machine sitting next to it which I used yesterday but what's really nice about the leverage pieces if you haven't got to use one before now this is old school equipment so it's not available for sale big shout out to Mark Nally I used to endorse this stuff back in the day so adjustable so it's just a straight motion but as you come in it actually kind of does the motion for you just like you were doing dumbbells almost so I got a plate on one side and and two plates on the other let's see what this weight feels like okay pretty accurate all right so you'll see me you'll see me pause a little bit now why I'm pausing is I'm getting my mind like in the motion so if you watch a lot of my content it's very methodical very thought through like I've walked through the work out a million times like I've done this can imagine how many times I pressed but it's like that it's weird I can you can kind of I can do it my head but it's hard to explain but it's really just kind of getting in the muscle and just kind of okay how can I work this the most and every day is different different variables sleep patterns food you know travel stress levels but for me you know like anyone that that sees my day-to-day my life is pretty consistent meaning I schedule everything so it's structured so it's around my training I honestly have say that so today you know I'm still weight training but you know I'm doing my cardio and I'm doing all my stuff my business stuff and you know traveling all these guest appearances you know I was in New York this weekend so I'm gonna add a plate on this thing just because that felt a little light so what I love what Nate did here at Jim hub Nate's the owner maybe we'll get him on a camera for a second because he's got a couple new pieces here but you know he has a love for machines and obviously hard to get ones so I did mention the seats pretty low on this too so there we go a little heavier all right so I could go heavier but I'm not going to only because I'm getting a good contraction because they're not trying to break any records but feels good I love this piece so if you ever get a chance to use I mean now I want I know why people come here like out of the way I just ran into one guy who's like any chance I get I can come here and train belongs to other gyms but and I don't know I think they only sell like passes by the day here so if you guys are in in Boston this goes for anyone look up Jim hub it's on school street come over here mention my name you know tell him you saw it on the video you see the sign over there Jim hub see Jason yeah one more time I'm kind of showing a little more than I usually do just because I'm vlogging this today and I was smart because I brought the mic so good pump I said I would do at least three exercise for chest so I'm gonna do there's a peck deck behind us right now I'm gonna do that next what moment set I'll probably do one more set off camera because that's feeling pretty good so four total plates still not quitting yet guys pretty standard but not always the same guys so peck deck so this can be also a rear dealt fly machine we are going to stand up in this okay I'm not gonna use a seat I'm gonna keep it really low actually I'm gonna stand against the pad chest out squeeze a chest so we get through all the exercises pump pump pump can't get that blood flow now let's stretch the fibers a lot more blood flow in there and that's gonna give us you know my ultimate goal which is the huge pump the pumps are a lot bigger when I was eating a ton and you know training is a lot more consistent when I was going and winning contest but what I'm really gonna try to do now is just get that full contraction so I'm feeling pretty good pump here I talk about the pump and how important it is I'm measuring the success of a workout okay like I said I'm gonna kind of stand put my back chest out squeeze not depending on your height this is pretty this machine can work really well for anyone with any body structure I have the knees bent a little bit so I'm a little lower I might back rate and my upper back right against the top of the pad get that nice burn if you notice I'm not coming touching them together because I don't I don't want to lose the motion and bring in too much of tricep and bicep and shoulder and everything else remember chest out squeeze really get that blood flow that was a good one good first set so it's at about 170 I'm gonna stay with that weight that goes to 220 some three-quarters of the way there and still focus on as many reps as I can just to get that nice burn so yesterday was back today's chest I did back in biceps for some reason yesterday I thought you know do biceps of back usually I've been doing them with chest with chest but I do triceps with the with shoulders okay so midhands okay chest out good constant like a piston so we do three sets here might do one exercise the pullover someone's asking me about that this weekend so I do two different versions of the pullover or the dumbbell so obviously they have a machine here for back but through the dumbbell like this chest really squeeze the chest now I'm trying to really stretch my lats I grasp the dumbbell and hold the bar right in the middle of my hands so I really get that stretch that stretch and engage the lats two different techniques so I'll probably just show how I grab that dumbbell it's kind of important so I'm gonna show you guys something a little different because I don't always show that depending on where I train but you know let me know if you guys like these you know comment below if you guys like these it more instructional vlog training I know some of you hardcore people just you know you watched all my videos over the year where I just went in there like a robot push heavyweight and that's cool too but as you know my message is a little different today really just trying to kind of break down what I do and explain a little bit because there's a lot of first-time people but also people that are like make an adjustment say a training wondering am I doing enough I think that's the key is am I doing enough to go in the gym and be active every day and keep making improvements or at least maintain I think everyone wants to prove I think it comes down to more nutrition about improvements not about you know yes the training is important but we've trying to put on muscle yes you're trying to do maximum overload right but I think today we have to find that balance between being lean and you know keeping muscle mass and not being over trained or get injured at the same time so the speed is important so like I said maximum like 60 seconds keep that intensity high so I'm squeezing my chest right there squeeze every rep that's a big burn right there like guys I talk about failure I don't know how much further at this point I'd like to go than that that was a heavy burn this is my stand by the way guys I'm walking around with a bar that's my tripod so I'm one of those people in in the gym with the with the tripods that we all talk about I'm gonna point this down a little bit so you can kind of see the movement since I don't have anyone here shooting the video so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do a dumbbell pullover but remember it's focusing on stretching the chest through the shoulders I'm gonna set the mic right here and I'll explain a little alright so watch the hands now I told you I'm gonna grasp it with more of an open hand and kind of pay attention that if you can as you see keep the butt down so this is good for the whole shoulder girdle back everything you guys needing to really get more flexion with all your muscles especially the upper torso this can be a great exercise for that so no matter what you guys have for routine right now just try throwing these in for a few weeks you know you can rotate them in but there's nothing like this exercise to really stretch out the shoulder the shoulders this whole shoulder girdle the triceps just make sure you pick a weight this is 60 I mean to go up 140 whatever but just try to incorporate this in guys okay hopefully I cannot sorry about the mic guys it's crunchy I think I could go go a little heavier but some squeezing the chest right here squeezing squeezing the chest easy work I hope you guys can see still get some chest in here man still get some chest in there so I'm gonna do one more set might do a couple abs but I'm gonna get Nate to kind of get a little walkthrough in the gym and then we'll we'll finish it finish off the video my phone's ringing in my ear at the same time all right guys do a little abs as you guys know I do trade my abs every other day and I was off actually a lot I was off yesterday I want to see my mom so incline sit-ups that's what we're gonna do so I'm gonna do three sets here do some ropes and then probably some some Roman chairs but every other day ab training keeps the back pain away keeps the midsection tight and you know we want to keep everything kind of flat so not to show off but just trying to give you guys a little motivation to just really stretches the ab wall these crunches so sorry hopefully that wasn't too much noise guys so good heart rate and I feel good I feel solid today you know chest is always good for me it was always one of those body parts that I enjoyed training because I'm you know I was able to keep a lot of my chest where I know like you know a lot of certain body parts fall off as you lose that fullness or whatever else but my chest still got a pretty decent chest but it's important for me I still want to stay in shape I still want to you know promote the real wealthy knowledge of body building and that's you know feeling good about yourself confidence you know it keeps me it keeps me you know if my body is in shape everything else in my life is in shape and that's something that you know a lot of people talk about over the years is you know if you have a certain structure everything needs to be aligned to be your absolute best and succeed and I think that's what spilled over a lot of people respect that about me as my consistency over the past 30 years it's always been the same pretty rigid but hey man if it works and it's work to build you know what I feel is success and you know why knock it right so at least 15 that's my goal really stretch that wall these 15 reps 80 pounds 85 pounds so exercise number three for out so I usually do three exercise three sets each Roman chair usually straight like really good now they say it tuckers the lower abs I think it's pretty much everything but my abs are pretty fatigued by now because I've already done six seven seven sets so we'll do nine total short rest periods just keep rolling through it I'm sure I'll wrap this video up skilled way back on the sets as many of you know I used to do 20 sets of body part thing for chess we did without warm-ups we did 9 12 12 sets plus a couple warm-up or field sets so probably 16 total 16 17 but I I would say 12 and 12 is where it's at now I usually say 9 to 12 so I think if you're starting off or intermediate depending if you're not if you train in volume wise I think you know 9 to 12 sets for you guys that training more heavy-duty I think you're to focus on probably you know lower volume and less sets you know but obviously going all out makes a huge difference  isogravine, need... The beads gonna show us something new in gym... The gym how about... Two new machines this week. You gotta tell us what you're most proud of, bro. In terms of equipment... Everything about the whole culture here... Man, yeah... The community... The community is the biggest one... Why is it so important to use... Man... The... You know... You don't think about that stuff when you open a gym... You... As a bodybuilder... You... Pick your favorite equipment... You think about your own workouts... And training hard... a trainer, but the environment and the people who are around you make you want to be there the whole time. I don't want to leave this place. We've got people that have become great friends, mentors, and every time I'm in here, the people just bring a great atmosphere, great energy. You want to train hard. You like who you're with. I mean, you know, you've got to meet a bunch of these people. The community doesn't stem just competing people, like bodybuilding people. So you have a lot of professional people in here. Yeah. And talk a little bit about your membership. So this is not your average gym. So it's by day pass only, correct? Yeah. We almost work like a spin studio or a yoga studio where you book a time slot and we cap the gym. It's like 20, 25 people. A number that's never crowded. So the goal is coming from a lifter standpoint. Every time you come here, the gym won't be overcrowded. You're going to be able to use anything that you want in here. So it's probably not great for me for business, but the goal is from a lifter. When you come here, you're going to be able to train. If it's seven in the morning, if it's five or six o'clock at night, we're never too crowded. So where can they slot their time? Mygymhub.com is the website. Yeah, like you mentioned, we have professional people. That's a lot of what they value is you can come here, you get world-class equipment, and you don't have to wait. And there's an etiquette here too. Nobody leaves weights on machines. Everybody wipes their stuff down. Everybody's ready for a spot. It's a community that just knows gym etiquette like we know, which you don't often find in bigger gyms. Yeah, I was bragging about all this flex. Flex leverage stuff. Yeah, that's right. You helped with the row, right? Yeah, yeah. So that was at my gym in Lake Forest. That was the first one. Man, this stuff, it is so crazy collectible now. Big, big shout out to Mark now. Yeah. I keep telling you how much this stuff, how much is the leverage people involved. So the flat and the inclined chest press now, both of these sold within the last week, the current examples, 10 grand a machine. So the chest presses, flattening, inclined are 10 grand. This row is like seven or eight grand now. The lap pull down, which we just got in. Let's check that out. Yeah. So a new addition to this, it was pretty problem. It was coming out here. Hey, what do we got? Is it going to be there when I show up? Yeah. So I had this in my gym also, guys, which like the other day, actually, and I actually got, I did this reverse grip, but it's just a perfect angle, right? It's, you know, Jay, you know, when like beginners start out, everybody does a lap pull down wrong. They're not using their lats, right? It's rear delts, traps, rhomboids. It's the perfect movement. You could put a beginner on here and they get their lats first rep. It took me four and a half years to find this. I wanted one of these from the day that we opened. It says powerhouse gym on it. Yeah. I don't know which one it came from. We bought this from the mega mass people. This was the machine that they used to replicate when they have a mega mass like knockoff. They blow the weights right there. Yeah. So this is what they've used as their demo to make the clones of, but it's just a perfect lap pull down. You know, the mistake with a lot of pull downs is people pull into them. You're not in front enough and this pulls right in front of the body. You don't even have to think about it. It's all lats. You know, really, as you do, you can do underhand grip. That hits perfectly. Everybody's gone on this and within three reps goes, whoa. It's all lats. So yeah, super proud to have this one. Four and a half years it took me to find. We've made a lot for it. It doesn't matter. At this point, it's like we want the best in it. No. This machine I've been seeing all over social media. This is a row. It's called a linear row. Yep. Yeah. It's almost like a Smith machine. You got the guide rods like a Smith machine. Why is it so good? Tell me why. So I think, one, it's incredibly smooth, but it takes the, like if you're talking like a T-bar row and we load up four or five plates, there's an effort to swing it over to the middle. And when you finish your last rep and you're hitting failure to get it back, this takes all of that out of it. Yeah. Here, close grip, and then wide grip like a bent over barbell. It's so smooth and it hits perfectly. I don't know. I haven't trained hard on it yet. I think it holds, holds like six or seven, something crazy. It's a light machine. That's the only thing is, you know, like three plates is, no. That's exactly it. So the stuff that we have in here, I think about like a female that I'm training, they have to be able, you know, like you have the old Nebula and now the Arsenal Humbler, right, where it's such a heavy machine. People can't even do it right off the bat. This is nice, very light. So great addition. Everybody's loved it. I took a chance. You know, everything in here I've used before, like I would fly around to gyms. Shout out to Steve Weinberger and, you know, Bebs Powerhouse, Redcon One, all these great gyms I would go to train on stuff. Yeah, yeah, Derrick's, Champs Elysium. Yep. And so I'm always trying equipment, but this is one I hadn't been able to find yet, but I had seen rave reviews online, so I took a chance and I'm glad I did. Awesome machine. Everybody that's on it loves it. So let me ask you, so now with their loading up gym hub, we just saw this bad boy sell for almost $40,000 online. Yeah, the AFS. You picked still your favorite piece of gym hub, which one was it? Man. So three, I'll say three. Probably AFS only because it's so incredibly rare. Like it's my favorite leg press. It's my favorite leg press, guys. Yeah, it's my favorite leg press and you just, it's impossible to find, so I'm super proud that we have it. I like that one. I would say maybe the swing squat too, behind you. I really like that and I don't even know if they make them anymore with Randy Coyle passing away, but I really like that. I like that pendulum squat. And then I would probably say ... Yeah, and that one is better for short people too. The original, the starting position is lower. The Rogers one is this big bulky machine that for women, they often need a step. And I would probably say the Flex flat chest press. To me, yeah, this just hits perfect. It just is perfect. Any of these machines, if you don't have to think and you can just push and you engage the right muscles, that's a win. The more that we can take out having to be thinking to make something contract and you can just push and it contracts, the better. It allows me to train really heavy but safely. I almost have no need to flat barbell bench press anymore with the risk that could come with it. I'd rather do this every time. Good man. I told people make sure they check out if they're in Boston. Are you guys 24 hours or? We can be. So we have access cards for our regulars. But otherwise we're... I can hear most of the time. Yeah, I'm here seven days a week. But I love it. Yeah. So most of the time people come in. If it's not me on the weekends, you've got Max or Maddie, a couple of great college kids that work for me that they love this place too. So you'll meet somebody who'll give you a tour and show you around. So you tore up the pro circuit last year, 2-12 champion. What's going to be on the agenda? What show are we going to see here this year? Oh man. I don't know. So no plans for this year yet. Possibly Atlanta, which is one of the last ones. There's not a lot of 2-12 shows, unfortunately. So possibly Atlanta for sure. Masters Olympia, 2027. That was the goal. So I'm qualified for that. We'll see where it's going to be. What country? But Masters Olympia for sure 2027. Goals to be my all time best at that show and represent and come for a win. You and me, the Olympia category. It's bullshit, but it's as close as I'll get in my age. You give me so much support here for all the events. I was talking about, I always try to promote Jim Hub and make sure that everyone's aware that there is the best hidden secret in downtown Boston, which we never had necessarily before. So I was going to the big commercial gyms here and I stay in the city. So we appreciate all the support you give. And of course, you know, check out Jim Hub because they're at all the cover events, you know, as one of our title sponsors and just make sure you come by and grab a workout. See Nate? Why is she looking like the tea taker boner? She's looking at the camera right now. She wants to know what this is. Really? She's curious, huh? What is that? All right. So post-workout guys. Pasta, some beef here. Mega Fit Meals. I'm going to take a look at one of my new products. Usually what I take my supplements, I take one in between all my meals. You can see ahead on my whole arsenal here. So is she going to steal his boner? What do you got, Nate? Did you show how we keep our mega? We have a fridge in our microwave, but show how we keep the meals. And our stuff out here. Because the temperature is freezing, the ice is cold, it's like frozen over here. I was telling them it's going to snow again. Yeah. So just walk back like 20 minutes. So what's kind of nice about what I do is I don't have to do my cardio after training. I did fast this morning, but I still walked to the gym and walked back. And on the way I ran into you. Yes, you did. How do you like Boston and the cold weather? How's it nice? Where would be the most east coast or so? Yes. It's fine. And like I'm used to it. You ever miss the snow? I do. I miss building snowman's and going sledding. Because even though it would be cold, me and my friends would do dumb things like that. We would still go sledding, like tubing, you know? Really? Yeah. It's fun. I bought you a sandwich, you know? Thank you. Turkey sandwich. Your favorite. Thank you. What did you eat since I've been gone? Nothing yet. But I ate later than you. Where's her bone? He took it. So where's his? He already ate his greenie. Nick, so you're going to let him eat yours like that? What is that? Who's that? She's so curious of the camera. Look at her. What is it? She's got such a person to have, doesn't she? Get it, Nick. She doesn't know what to think. Sign off. All right, guys. So we are going to wrap up my second meal of the day. Stay tuned.