I do it big. Yeah, I do it big big big. I'm coming to win. I do it big big big. Say it again. I do it big big big. I'm coming to win. I do a big big big. Say it again. I do a big bigger than most do it. If I see a wall of a goat do it me in I'm so croo that I don't want to have to go stupid. I don't want to have to show you the rope. Trust me if you know then you know 100° or even low. I'm doing it big for show. Tell me the code. Give me the pencil. Them boys ain't got no credentials. They trace the kid like a stencil. I'm liking your rental. Fake and make it. Huh? That be the win you chasing. Huh? You couldn't believe it would have been me who's gone and made it. Huh? Yeah. I do it big big. I'm coming to win. I do it big. Say it again. Hey, where you been? I've been looking for you. Like your shirt. Hey, guess who gave me this? Give me that mic. Guess who gave me this? Keith Davis. Oh, how did I guess? I don't know. You just did. You know, you always send stuff for birthdays and stuff. You want to show the shirt? Show the shirt for Keith. Look at that. My favorite. Okay. So, guys, this shirt is the reason I started lifting weights. Yeah. Between that and Blood Sport and Damn. Yeah. That movie when I was 12 years old, 19 was 85, right? Yeah. 85. Summer of 85 was my best summer ever. Really? I I Why? I don't know, man. I just I I had a good good summer that year. Really? Yeah. I remember I had a calendar and I used to have like all these things written down. Can Do you used to have a calendar on your room wall? Yeah. I used to have a calendar cuz I used to get like um cars like for Christmas as part of our stocking stuffers. We would get calendars. Like, who uses a calendar now? I know. We used to sell. Look at this guy riding on the side of the Dude, you're not even supposed to ride a bike over there. This guy's riding a bicycle, dude. Yeah, there's a bicycle on the side of the freeway. Hold on. Like, that's illegal. But Oh, jeez. Uh, so we used to have calendars, people. We used to sell calendars. Remember you used to like see like I remember like fitness tricks used to sell their calendars and stuff which you know firemen used to do that to make money. You remember that? Yeah. I know. Yeah. So I totally forgot that. So I had a calendar and I wrote on this calendar like all the good things that happened to me that summer, man. Nice. And that was um Rocky 4 came out. Oh my god. I thought Ivan Drago was so big in that movie. I know. He was tall, too. And you know, for a while when uh when they were filming Creed, too, he was training at Golds every morning. Oh, yeah. We were there. We'd see him every day. Yeah. He was getting back in shape. They talked to him. Even Merlin, what did he say? Dolph was actually the one said, "Hey, you training pretty hard over here." And then Merlin said, "Jay doesn't think so." He didn't say that, but he did say that. Yeah, there was a trail. What do he look like? Uh, he was, you know, he's not that big and not that much, but he's just getting back into it. You know, they were just about to film. Well, I saw he went through cancer or something. I know that sucks. It's just crazy. Like, I used to see James Khan and Yeah. And Roy uh Ray Leotaa. Ray Leotaa. Yeah. They both passed away now, you know. Well, the other one, the dancer, too. The black dancer, remember? A long time ago. Yeah. Uh, you know what I mean? He Gregory Hines. Yes, he was. He was there all the time. Yeah, we were just talking about that today actually. All the celebrities we met over there. It was great. Ted Dansen. We'd see him all the time. Yeah, Ted's there still there cuz I see people take Dave Lieberman took a picture with him. Yeah, I'm just walking. All right, so we are at Show the sign. Boom. We're at Fit Club. I can't believe you show up with these shoes. Well, I don't have a hookup like you, dude. You have endless supply. Ah, what do you mean? Any Omix you want. Really? So, who bought you these shoes? I bought them. You did? Yeah, they were getting too old. I still wear the other ones, but they're getting pretty old. Oh, I have We wear the same size. All you got to come do is you steal my protein, you can steal my shoes, too. Okay, no more talking. No more talking. Show your shoes. I don't even know what those are. They're they're Goodyear shoes. Where do you buy that? Online. Well, I don't know. I want to get the new uh the shoes like this, but blue and gray. Uh no, gray and purple or gray. Gray. Gray. Yeah, purple. Yeah. I'm color blind. You know that looks blue to me. So, they're going to actually make this outside area into something special. They're talking about putting a link fence and stuff here. Oh, really? Yeah. But this is, dude, this is this is the life. Like I talked about in the last video, this going to be just like the same video as the last video. Yep. Maki yaki grill. I know. In-N-Out Burger. So, it's kind of funny when I asked Diaz, he's in here. Did you see him or no? Yeah. Uh, I said, "So, how come I can't tag Fit Club from the location on the phone on Instagram?" He says, "Just tag in an Outburger." So, I tag in an Outburger now. Okay. Why? Why is it not popping yet? It's just not cuz it's not officially open yet. Okay. You know, the gym's not official. Yeah, they're not technically finished, they say. Although it looks pretty finished to me. Did you see the fire when you drove down the 215? You could see it the other night when it was burning from here. Burning the day after. Yeah, text you last night and I was like it was late. Yeah, man. You know why? You know what last night was? I don't know if you watched my Instagram story, but I was like, man, I don't know if I feel like training, whatever. And I went to the gym and you know, it was like the best workout ever. Isn't it like that sometimes it's just hard to get there? You know what? You know what though? Cuz as you know, like I've been kind of locked up doing this. I mean, last week I had a very off week. So, I'm going to check my weight today, which I was getting closer to 250. I was feeling really good, but I missed some meals. I had to travel to Tampa. I was doing some stuff in California. So, I did back get backtracked a little bit. And this is the one thing where I always said for the Olympia, I stopped traveling. You remember I'd cut it after like Lonnie's show, right? And I'd say that's it. I'm not traveling after June. And uh I'd have July, August, and September to perform and get in the gym. And that's why because you know, you just get mishaps. I was delayed both ways traveling to Tampa. Oh jeez. Um so it was a little it was a little stressful, but uh I'm eating, you know, I'm on four meals already today, so I'll eat my fifth after this. Uh feeling good. You know, we'll see what the weight is, but um just trying to be particular, man. Just trying to, you know, get to that goal. And like I said, that goal is not ending on the 3rd of August. Everything's going, you know, I feel good. The gym was great. I walked out of Kilo last night. And I said, "I'm rich." I know. Cuz I felt and you know, and the funny thing is it was really busy last night, like the restaurants and stuff. So, it was kind of cool. Yeah. I love I love good vibe. So, what I'm going to do, guys, I'm going to shoot this workout and then I'll talk a little bit about uh after and then we'll uh we'll kind of regroup and come on in. Let's get it. You got to repeat that. Oh, was it a moment of truth? Okay. 243 and A2. Boom. I lose weight quick, don't I? Well, you're back home now, so you'll be fine. All right, guys. So, we just finished uh an arm workout. It seems like we're just doing this yesterday, actually, here at the same place. It's kind of funny when, you know, I I wanted to do an arm video because it seems to be like everyone's favorite. Everyone always asks me about arm training. It's like arms or chest or calves, right? Um so I'm going to talk through the exercises. Um like always, I always start with triceps first and this week instead I kind of reverse a little bit. So I started with a press down movement. So I used kind of a straight a shorter straight bar. You know, did two warm-up sets and then three working sets pyramiding the weight up. I went up to like 120 and really just trying to really get a contraction. I know that sometimes these reps look a little short, but the contraction's there. Okay. And then I went over next to the rope press down, but I I think I mentioned this and I don't know if it's going to be cut into the video or not, but I got on my knees and I actually keep the the arms a little close and I was getting good contraction out of it. Um, and for me, you know, that seems to work better for me. I feel like when I'm at a lower body position and going through the reps and with this I went into like three or four sets total, like 10 or 12 reps, I didn't even really count, but really just trying to get that contraction to the tricep. And uh felt good. I felt good. And uh you know that the pump was starting to really flow by then. So the next exercise we went over to is the overhead dumbbell. Now with this exercise, uh I'm focused on three sets. So, I did it on kind of like a a preacher bench and I backed up to that. You know, sometimes the seats are a little high, the back of the seats, so it's hard to get the extension. And one thing about these, I don't have any elbow pain. So, you see me going through the repetitions. Really just trying to get that that stretch. I believe that any anytime you do your tricep movements, you know, you're going to do your pressing movements, but you're also going to do your extension movements. So, that was the next next exercise. And then I went over to the dip machine, uh, which was, uh, you know, kind of different hammer strength than we've used in the past. Uh, that's really good. I mean, I've done like free weights, whatever else for dips, but focused on three sets there, pyramiding the weight up a little bit, really getting the contraction. You see the the chest pieces on the back side of that. So, it's kind of cool. And then I finished with uh tricep extension with dumbbells. Kickbacks. I did two arms. I used to do these single arm. You can do them either way. Uh did three sets of those just focusing on 10 or 12 repetitions. Really getting that contraction. Felt good. Um and then of course rolled right into the biceps. First exercise of biceps was that nautilus machine. And I would not fit into this if I was full size as I used to be. Uh because it is really close. But I really like this. I do two arms at a time. Did three sets here. First set I was extremely pumped. very easy to get the pump once you have the triceps pumped up. Uh then rolled into our uh dumbbell curls. Now, I did the first set standing, alternate dumbbells, rolled into some seated, focused on really getting the contraction. I try to do like 8 to 10 each arm. Uh really starting to feel it there. Um biceps are nice and full. Um and then I did on the incline bench the uh spider curls. Now, I did this with a straight bar. Now, I usually do dumbbells. I do cambered bar. I did the straight bar this time. Three sets focusing on 10 or 12 repetitions. Really getting that contraction. Good, good burn on these. And then of course the last movement is going to be your preacher bench. Um sometimes I do single. I did double three sets here. Really just getting that contraction, getting that good pump. Uh all in all felt pretty good. Um, today was another day I probably was not going to train um because I haven't really taken any days off since I came back from Tampa. You know, I've been extremely busy. Uh, like I said, just really trying to get my body back, get my weight cl climbing back up. I'm not happy with being in the mid 240s. I I really wanted to be 250 by this time because at 8 weeks, you know, I started making the transition, starting to add some extra cardio in, doing two sessions a day. This morning I did about 25 minutes. Um, so I'm probably going to finish with a little bike work and uh, you know, just get the body firing tonight. Uh, you know, keeping the metabolism going, eating the food. I still feel like I'm not eating enough, especially if my weight's not climbing up super fast. So, you know, the next 7 and 1/2 weeks, you know, it's just trial and error to see how my body reacts. Um, trying to just get as full as possible and, you know, make progress. So, when I look at myself on my 50th, I say, "Man, I where I want to be, but I know I'm going to say this is not it. I'm going to keep going." Um, so for you guys that have been following along, you see all the content out there. You see all the platforms. We're doing a lot of educational stuff. One thing I can say now being retired, being off the stage, what's better than to give educational advice, right? So, lot of trial and error through my training. There's no specific that works exactly for everyone. Everyone has their own well-being to what they want to achieve. We're all going to have good and bad days. I always say not every day is a rockstar day. Um, we all go through it. So, I'm going to keep plugging away. I'm going to keep you guys updated on on what we got going on. Uh, you know, we kind of roll with it from there. So, uh, until next time, guys, make sure you guys like, subscribe, follow, comment below, tell me how this Fit for 50 or these videos have been helping you, cuz we've been doing a ton of content. We're we're lurking towards 800,000, to hit a million. That's our goal for 2023 is to hit a million, get that plaque, and then we move forward from there. So, I appreciate you guys so much. Thank you for following along. And, uh, wherever you guys are around the world, stay focused, stay hungry. And most importantly, stay huge. No mercy for you, no worries for you. That Game of Thrones on you. I kept the script, I wrote the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to