! I'll start reading here. The first one is from Kimberly B., who states, I wanted to know you what you thought of ALA, alphalopoic acid, as a treatment or possible cure for liver disease, as is claimed in the book, The Alphalopoic Acid Breakthrough by Bert Berkson, MBPHD. Well, ALA is a good supplement in general, and that statement in 5 bucks a good just Starbucks cup of coffee, I know that's not helpful, but unfortunately neither is the question in the sense that a cure for liver disease, liver diseases can be very different, they can range from, say, a viral hepatitis to fatty liver, and actually on that note, so for fatty liver, there's some evidence that ALA might be useful. I think it's good for poisoning from aminida, I think. Anyway, that's kind of a one-off that is probably not what she's referring to here. For fatty liver, yeah, that's what we're talking about in terms of liver disease, it's probably good also with alcoholic-based liver disease, because, well, for no other reason simply because fatty liver that's non-alcoholic is one thing, but alcoholism can lead to fatty liver also, so the two are kind of joined there, but I would say beyond that, we don't have much evidence to support, oh, it's kind of a cure-all for anything liver-related. There aren't too many things like that, period, so that's why again the question, I'm sorry, is just a little bit too vague, but and I haven't read the book, and so I apologize for that, so I'm not sure what claims Dr. Berkson is making, but again for adjunct therapy then, whether it's for alcoholism or straightforward fatty liver from other causes, eating too many starchy carbs and not exercising enough, familial hypertriglyceride, DEMIA, things like that, it could prove useful, but I wouldn't look at it as some sort of end-all, be-all magic bullet for the liver, nor since we're on the topic, would I consider milk thistle or some of these others that are considered great for the liver, it really depends upon what's going on with the liver, I know I'm kind of stating the obvious, but sometimes we have to state the obvious because we still get questions like this where it sounds like we're talking about some sort of general do-everything cure, and there aren't too many of those out there. But it would definitely help to take it. Yeah, I mean my go-to for fatty liver though would be, what we've talked about I'm sure before is what we call the mick caps, which is elmethionine, choline and nostal, things that are methyl donors in general, but that's tried and true from back in the bodybuilder days, even before Franco, Colombo, like the Vince, what is it Vince? You're on them? No, Vince, Zabo? The Zabo days, where these guys were using it, it's still using it today, I don't even remember why, but again, I don't mean to repeat what we've done before, but back in the day they were doing a lot of lifting and a lot of eating and not much else in between, trying to bulk up, there was a lot of excess storage in the liver that became fatty liver, and particularly on anabolic steroids, where you're stuffing as much as you can into the muscles glycogen, but the next stop is the liver, so after a cycle of anabolic steroids they would know to use, back then it was just choline and nostal, and now we add another methyl donor, elmethionine, but still, alfalfa gas, it would not be a bad contributor, but in terms of treating cancer or really anything else, there's just not, I haven't read, unless there's something new, and again, I haven't read the book, to suggest that ALA is some sort of cure-all, more of an adjunct therapy, and again, I started to say the science I've seen, if there are claims to the contrary, are not based on good studies, they're either too small, the study design is not, it doesn't have a good, what we call a P, so the strength of evidence, I guess to put it more broadly, is not there for a number of reasons, and so it's not a bad thing, but I wouldn't necessarily tout it as something extraordinary. Thanks, Doc. Okay, so this question is from Kim W. There's a lot of talk about redotrutide lately, many saying it's significantly better than other peptides for fat loss and muscle retention. What are the key differences between redotrutide and simiglutide, and what possible side effects does it have? Would you recommend it for regular use and or contest prep? Great question. First of all, most people know of simiglutide as either azimpic or rogoi, which are the brand names, not manjarro, which is terzapatide, and then there's redotrutide, which is not even available, as it's, I guess, what it will be, it's brand name, I don't know, but it's made by Lily, and... It's not out yet? Well, it's out there amongst compounders, because it's a fairly easy recipe in terms of making this peptide, but redotrutide, I don't know the brand is, I was going to say, or what's going to be, I just read something in today's Wall Street Journal, as a matter of fact, though, that they released a study about redotrutide showing that it had significantly better results in terms of fat loss over the prior two, the terzapatide and simiglutide, and Lily has its own simiglutide, I know. So my point being that while I didn't read this study, they have no reason to state something that may not be true, it doesn't mean it is, but they would be cannibalizing their own product, so... Anyway, along with it, they were saying that, and this is kind of a duh, that there was also an improvement in knee pain, well, if you're losing weight, you're probably going to help with knee pain in a lot of cases, right? Back-pissing? Probably, yeah, that should be associated with thing, too, although I just read about knee pain, but anyway, to answer the question, the difference is actually significant from what I've seen in practice, in that simiglutide works on one form of agonism, the GLP-1 that everyone has recited by memory now. That has an effect that ends up helping people lose weight by slowing the passage of the food bolus through the stomach, squelching your appetite thereby, and the mechanisms... Well, there's more to it than that, that anyone who wants to look it up in their physiology book can do so, but that's a pretty simple and yet very effective method, and there's no need necessarily to try one of the others if the simiglutide works for you, and of course, the older ones tend to be cheaper, so I see no reason why someone wouldn't want to start with one of those, whether it's for contest prep or the regular use as she refers, which is typically, hey, people who want to lose fat. Then there's terzipotide, which she doesn't mention, but that's kind of the in-between iteration, that includes the GIP agonist, which adds another mechanism to this, and again, I'm purposefully biting my tongue here, not going into the details we were talking about before this, about rambling, I don't want to ramble as I want to do, but then we have retitutide, which works by three different mechanisms of action, which includes CGC or receptor agonism, so we're talking about glucocon essentially, and really what it boils down to in the simple terms is, and this relates back to her question, for contest prep, I'm assuming she's talking about fitness model, bodybuilding, whatever it is, where you're trying to create, maintain as much muscle mass, or even limit as much muscle loss as possible, while losing as much fat as possible, and the addition of the, in my opinion, the CGR, a CGCR mechanism, and this has to do with, I said I wouldn't do it, I'll do it a little bit, so, well, because you're going to release more insulin, but wait a minute, I thought that's what we don't want to do, well, again, trying to sum up the nuances as simply as possible, you want the insulin to be released at the right time, acutely, not chronically, okay, get the job done, get the blood sugar out of the system, and limit the amount of insulin required over the long haul, so you actually increase insulin sensitivity, reduce the fasting insulin levels, and this one addition to the glucagon receptor, I think, is the French version of the piecedil, the final part of it that makes a big difference, certainly in her question, between simiglutide and retitutide, in the conservation of muscle mass, rather than the risk of, and by the way, it's very overblown, you know, I think I've said this before, the GLP-1 Agnes have been around since, I believe it's 2002, started catching on around, at least in my office, we get the phone calls, you know, hey doc, what, you will be subscribed this in about 2021, I said no, by the way, until we had another year or so of the injectable form, my point is the oral form, which was like four pills a day, which is going to be filled with non-compliance, never caught fire, but my point is these have been around for a long time, the GLP-1 Agnes, and yet, you know, it's only recently they've caught fire, like I said, because of the ease of use I would argue, once a week, injection subcutaneously, and my point is, you know, now we're talking about all these potential side effects and all these things, referencing her question that, oh, well, with simiglutide, the risk is you're going to lose all this muscle, you're going to become skinny fat, particularly in someone who doesn't work out, but still is obese and needs to lose the fat, doesn't happen in practice, okay, hasn't happened since 2002, I say it doesn't happen, it's not some sort of major predilection, yeah, if you don't get your butt off the couch and work out, stimulate muscle growth, you might become skinny fat, yeah, that's with anything, if you continue to work out and add some aglutide to your routine, whether it's for regularly used, meaning just getting rid of extra fat, or for contest prep, it can be used, but redotrutide, for what I mentioned earlier, is even better, so ideally, and this is, you know, I have no stock in Lily, redotrutide is definitely the better, or the best of the three drugs, okay, but do you absolutely need it? No, but in answer to her question, which I believe has to do more with, arguably, what anyone would want, more muscle and less fat, yeah, this would be the one for contest prep, and arguably for, quote, unquote, regular use too. Awesome.