So this next young lady or actually not sure how old she is but she's on HRT she says all right she says the doctor said I can't do HRT because of past health heart attack issues. Is that if that's true what what other solutions are there if that is true? Well first of all you I don't know why you wouldn't be able to use HRT HRT stands for hormone replacement therapy right so whether it's testosterone replacement therapy or estrogen replacement therapy or both which would often times include progesterone as well because if you have a uterus you have to counteract the effect of estrogen on the uterus with some progesterone. None of those three would be contraindicated necessarily or it would be highly unlikely I can't even think of a reason in case of a prior heart attack. There's an association a correlation between low testosterone and coronary artery disease with a lot of other things as well but when we're talking about the heart that would only make sense. Estrogen is also good for the heart. If you if estrogen drives is is driven too low for whatever reason your your so called good cholesterol can drop and that's not good for the heart. So I'm not sure why she would not be able to use HRT. Now the other part what other solutions are there? Well it depends on what we're treating here but uh Get a new doctor. >> [laughter] >> That's a good solution. Actually I have to stop right there. Yeah get a new doctor get a second opinion as they say. The other one is you know Chinese medicine is really good with it for any reason they they truly are the hormones. For example the thing I can think of most likely is if there were estrogen sensitive cancers within then typically you don't want to at least initially the rules are changing now so that depending upon the cancer the doctor etc. 3 years maybe as much as 5 years post resolution of the cancer they will say okay well you're safe to use estrogen again or begin. But if not then we can use oxandrolone which is a a DHT derivative dihydrotestosterone derivative that cannot convert to estrogen which can supplant the use of testosterone. So instead of that's in other words she's asking what other solutions are there. I'm [clears throat] just riffing here because I can't think of anything else to say because I don't know um exactly what she's asking except very specifically about heart attack issue. I can't think why You know what most you know what most doctor feel that we our doctors does that's that's the They don't like that. They don't like When you tell them to tell them to you always give you that look. Mhm what I mean It's [laughter] too controversial. It's usually from a physician I mean the the fall back position with most physicians and I am generalizing is if you don't know what you're talking about the subject matter is to say well then don't take it. Instead of going well let me look into that I don't know. >> Um so that that happens a lot well >> Yeah. I don't know about HRT so it's bad for you or Yes. I don't know about it so just don't do it. Yes. Yeah unfortunately. All right thanks doc. Next one says hello doc my name is Jasmine and I'm 36 years old. I'm toying with the idea of starting TRT but I heard that the side effects are pretty bad for women. Is there a way to avoid that? I'm mostly concerned about my voice. Well at 36 years old there's a good chance you are a candidate I'll say that. The side effects for women are typically not related to testosterone per se but one of its metabolites dihydrotestosterone which is much more powerful in effect on the androgen receptors which is where testosterone is going to bind where dihydrotestosterone is going to bind and cause not only potentially thickening of the vocal cords deepening of the voice but hair growth in the wrong places hair loss in the right places on the head acne those are the typical and and if the dose um or I I guess I well it this is all dose related but if there's enough exposure to dihydrotestosterone there can actually be clitoral enlargement okay? But these are typically dosages that are way out of control they're not testosterone replacement therapy doses. Let me say for clitoral enlargement that that's I mean it would be very rare okay and again it wouldn't be directly because of the testosterone be from dihydrotestosterone and depending upon the receptor you can have two to five times more potency more of a potent reaction at that androgen receptor to dihydrotestosterone so that plays into it too is what I'm saying. More likely from excess dihydrotestosterone at TRT dosages you're going to see things like acne and hair growth in what we call the wrong places although I'm sure I've said this before too men and women have hair in the same places just women a lot less of it right? You know how it is your grandma had that two or three on her chin since she's been in her maybe early 30s even but she just got tired of plucking them when she made it to 70 something or didn't care anymore but they've been there okay? It's genetically based of course but the dihydrotestosterone exposure will you know either reveal more of that that's in your genes or typically make it grow faster one of the other or both. But it doesn't cause hair to come out of nowhere that's not in your genes okay? So that's that's important and it can be controlled more importantly to her question I think. Which is we can block the conversion from testosterone into this excess dihydrotestosterone arguably because of its potency and its beneficial effect as well we don't necessarily want to get rid of all the DHT. It's kind of like what I talk about without getting into too much cholesterol. Cholesterol is the basis from for these hormones and to get rid of it we wouldn't have any of these hormones unless we use replacement therapy. But of course it's associated with the immune system reaction to to plaque and so we might have to pair it down if we have plaque in the arteries etc. etc. but do we necessarily want to get rid of it? No. So my point being in this case with dihydrotestosterone I typically don't try and adjust for it in any way modulate it in any form or fashion unless the patient complains about a side effect. It can be beneficial the dihydrotestosterone. But if it becomes an issue typically again we'll see acne or hair in the wrong places right? growth we will employ what we call a five alpha reductase inhibitor something that blocks the conversion from testosterone into excess dihydrotestosterone. Done. Nice. As I've seen in practice usually have about a six month window for these things to reverse particularly to her question for example oh I'm noticing deepening of the voice thickening of the vocal cords. Raise your hand let us know and we can block the conversion and that as I said you got about a six month window and it will reverse. You can always stop this but then you stop it you lose all the benefits too so I usually >> I thought it was irreversible in the voice so it's good to know. >> Well after a time it can be. That's why I say you usually have about a six month window you just have to and this is my job to tell patients up front if you you know have any of these signs or symptoms you got to let me know so that I can then reverse them because early on I had patients biting their lip at the 90 day follow up saying you know if it did come up well I thought you'd make me come off it or I don't care I feel so much better on this stuff now I said yeah [laughter] well we can have the best of both worlds right? So okay so side effects those are typically what they are and just in short they're all controllable because the the bad actor in this is the dihydrotestosterone. Arguably if someone is super sensitive to excess estrogen that's another metabolite of testosterone that can also be controlled but because women are used to big swings in estrogen for reproductive purposes excess estrogen is usually not an issue that comes up as something needs to be treated but I just wanted to be technically correct in that that's that that can be one of the hormones that we need That's very good good good question. I would suggest Jasmine go visit her qualified physician in this area and and if she's having symptoms of related to to low T to definitely look into it cuz you can have the best of both worlds. >> That's awesome. Thanks doc. Thanks.