 So this next young lady, or actually, I'm not sure how old she is, but she's on HRT, she says, she says, the doctor said I can't do HRT because of past health, heart attack issues. Is that, if that's true, or what, what other solutions are there, if that is true? Um, well, first of all, you, I don't know why you wouldn't be able to use HRT. Um, uh, HRT stands for hormone replacement therapy, right? So, uh, whether it's testosterone replacement therapy, or estrogen replacement therapy, or both, which would oftentimes include progesterone as well, because if you have a uterus, you have to counteract the effect of estrogen on the uterus with some progesterone. Uh, none of those three would be contraindicated necessarily, or it'd be highly unlikely, I can't even think of a reason, in case of a prior heart attack. Um, there's an association, a correlation between low testosterone and coronary artery disease. Um, with a lot of other things as well, but when we're talking about the heart, that really makes sense. Uh, estrogen is also good for the heart. If you love, if estrogen drives, or is driven too low for whatever reason, um, your, you know, so-called good cholesterol can drop, and that's not good for the heart. Um, so I'm not sure why she would not be able to use HRT. Now the other part, what other solutions are there? Well, it depends on what we're treating here, but, uh, Get a new doctor. That's a good solution. Actually, I have to stop right now. Yeah, get a new doctor. Get a second opinion, as they say. The other one is, you know, Chinese medicine is really good with it. For any reason, they, they truly are contraindicated, uh, the hormones. Uh, for example, the thing I can think of most likely is if there were, uh, estrogen sensitive cancers, well then typically you don't want to, at least initially, the rules are changing now so that, uh, depending upon the cancer or the doctor, et cetera, three years, maybe as much as five years post, um, resolution of the cancer, they will say, okay, well, you're safe to use estrogen again or begin. Um, but if not, then we can use Oxandrolone, which is, um, uh, a DHT derivative, dihydrotestosterone derivative that cannot convert to estrogen, which can supplant the use of testosterone. So instead of that's just, in other words, she's asking what other solutions are there? I'm just riffing here cause I can't think of anything else to say because I don't know, um, exactly what she's asking except very specifically about heart attack issues. I can't think of why. You know, most, you know, most doctors feel the way her doctors does. That's the, they don't like that. They don't like when we tell them to tell them they always give you that look. Without getting too controversial, it's usually from a physician. I mean, the fallback position with most physicians and I am generalizing is if you don't know what you're talking about, the subject matter is to say, well, then don't take it instead of going, well, let me look into that. I don't know. Um, so that, that happens a lot. Well, I don't know about HRT, so it's bad for you or I don't know about it. So just don't do it. Yes. Yeah. Unfortunately. All right. Thanks, doc. Next one says, hello doc. My name is Jasmine and I'm 36 years old. I'm toying with the idea of starting TRT, but I heard that the side effects are pretty bad for women. Is there a way to avoid that? I'm mostly concerned about my voice. Well, at 36 years old, there's a good chance you are a candidate. I'll say that. Um, the side effects for women are typically not related to testosterone per se, but one of its metabolites, dihydrotestosterone, which is much more powerful in effect on the androgen receptors, which is where testosterone is going to bind, where dihydrotestosterone is going to bind and cause not only potentially thickening of the vocal cords, deepening of the voice, but hair growth in the wrong places, uh, hair loss in the right places on the head, acne. Those are the typical, uh, and, and if the dose, um, or I guess I, well, this is all dose related, but if there's enough exposure to dihydrotestosterone, there can actually be clitoral enlargement. Okay. But these are typically dosages that are way out of control. They're not testosterone replacement therapy doses. Let me say for clitoral enlargement, that does, I mean, it would be very rare. Okay. And again, it wouldn't be directly because of the testosterone to be from one of its metabolites, dihydrotestosterone. And depending upon the receptor, you could have two to five times more potency, more of a potent reaction at that androgen receptor, uh, to dihydrotestosterone. So that plays into it too, is what I'm saying more likely from excess dihydrotestosterone at TRT dosages, you're going to see things like acne and hair growth in what we call the wrong places. Although I'm sure I've said this before too, men and women have hair in the same place. It's just women, a lot less of it. Right. Um, you know, I always joke grandma had that two or three on her chin since she's been in her maybe early thirties, uh, even, but she just got tired of plucking them when she made it to 70 something or 80, uh, doesn't care anymore, but they've been there. Okay. It's genetically based of course, but the dihydrotestosterone exposure will, you know, either reveal more of that that's in your genes or typically make it grow faster. One or the other or both. Um, but it doesn't cause hair to come out of nowhere that's not in your genes. Okay. So that's, that's important. And it can be controlled more importantly to her question, I think, which is we can block the conversion from testosterone into this excess dihydrotestosterone, arguably because of its potency and it's beneficial effect as well. We don't necessarily want to get rid of all the DHT. It's kind of like what I talk about without getting into too much cholesterol. Cholesterol is the basis from, for these hormones and to get rid of it, we wouldn't have any of these hormones unless we use replacement therapy. But of course it's associated with the immune system reaction to plaque. And so we might have to pare it down if we have plaque in the area, et cetera, et cetera. But do we necessarily want to get rid of it? No. So my point being in this case with dihydrotestosterone, I typically don't try and adjust for it in any way, modulate it in any form or fashion, unless the patient complains about a side effect. It can be beneficial to dihydrotestosterone. But if it becomes an issue, typically again, we'll see acne or hair in the wrong places, right? Growth. We will employ what we call a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, something that blocks the conversion from testosterone into excess dihydrotestosterone. Done. Nice. So, as I've seen in practice, you usually have about a six-month window for these things to reverse, particularly to her question, for example, oh, I'm noticing deepening of the voice, sticking to the vocal cords. Raise your hand, let us know, and we can block the conversion. And like I said, you've got about a six-month window and it will reverse. You can always stop this. That's great. Now, if you stop it, you lose all the benefits too. So, I usually... I thought it was irreversible, the voice, so it's good to know. Well, after a time, it can be. Yeah. But that's why I say you usually have about a six-month window. You just have to, and this is my job, to tell patients up front, if you have any of these signs or symptoms, you've got to let me know so that I can then reverse them. Because early on, I had patients biting their lip at the 90-day follow-up saying, you know, if it did come up, well, I thought you'd make me come off it, or I don't care. I feel so much better on this stuff now. I said, yeah, well, we can add the best of both worlds, right? Yeah. So, okay. So, side effects, those are typically what they are. And just in short, they're all controllable because the bad actor in this is the dihydrotestosterone. Now, arguably, if someone is super sensitive to excess estrogen, that's another metabolite of testosterone that can also be controlled. Because women are used to big swings in estrogen for reproductive purposes, excess estrogen is usually not an issue that comes up as something that needs to be treated. But I just wanted to be technically correct in that that can be one of the hormones that we need to be in control of. That's a very good question. That's a great question. I would suggest Jasmine go visit her qualified physician in this area. Yeah. If she's having symptoms related to low T, to definitely look into it because you can have the best of both worlds. That's awesome. Thanks, Doc. So, what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded that what that that what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded that what that needs to be reminded