All right. So, we're back for Jaywalks. It's been a while, dude. And we have a new addition. What do you got there? This is Nick NYX. And what does that mean? It's something with the with the Greek goddess. Oh, wow. Angie kind of Angie wanted to have a different name. So, this is She's 2 months old. She's 2 lb. She'll be like 3 to four. We got her from an amazing breeder in uh in Massachusetts. So yeah, you got her while you were on the way. Yeah, it just happened just crazy. We just she had a look that morning and we were going to see my mom and she asked me where Chelmsford was and I said, "Oh, it's pretty close to Boston." So we uh we went and looked at her. She came right up to us and now she's in our house. She flew home. She was amazing. She's been sleeping like the last two nights with me. Does she cry at night or um No, no, she just she just sleeps. But when I lock her up in the kennel, we have the kennel and obviously the kitchen, guys. We have uh I know a full remodel going on right now. They're doing all the backsplash and everything. You don't even have You can't even cook. Yeah. So, I have all my meafit meals just kind of sitting there. Does Ang need that? Yeah, she Yeah, but she like Angie's not feeling I was kind of sick last week, so Angie's not feeling the best, but we're trying to keep her from chewing the walls and But we, you know, for you guys that don't know, I don't even know if I've been on camera really. It's it's been a hard few weeks for me cuz Daisy passed. Um, she had a heart. She had a heart, um, an enlarged heart. So, we came back from Boston and, you know, she amazing. Like, she held on like she was having fainting spells after Boston and like we took her in and, you know, they they gave her some medication. and she seemed to be doing better, but her breathing just got harder and harder and um I don't know it she she had this thing started with this cough. So you guys that have you know smaller Yorkys they they said it was reverse cough but I don't it really was actually her heart which I don't know if it could have been prevented. She was 14 and a half. So I mean it's a long life. I mean she it was devastating for us though. Everyone knows you guys know like my dogs, you know, we don't have kids. So that's right. We chose to have dogs and we bring them to all the expos and everything else and they travel every week that when we we travel together, Angie and I, which you know is is pretty often, but a lot of times she stays home with the dogs or I take one. You've been I mean I've come to California with either Capone or Daisy, but remember Daisy stayed with me most of the time when she traveled uh back east. you know, she always Capone was her it's her service animal. Oh, yeah. So, um Daisy, uh you know, she's just she was an amazing part of our lives. And now Nyx is is the new baby. And she's I haven't had a puppy since since Bodie. Oh, wow. So, I had Scrappy was never a puppy. I got him like after he was probably six or eight months old. What Trace was a puppy, wasn't he? Yes. But then I got Bodie. Oh, when I was winning the No. 05 or 06 Olympia. Do you remember 06? I think. Yeah. I think I got him as I was prepping for 06 Olympia because I had to go pick him up. He came crded and everything on the plane. He was not. Yeah. He was crazy. But they were big, you know. They were big. So now having Trace was a horse. Yeah. Having the little puppies, it's it's definitely, you know, they they get your heart, man. And so she's she's really like she'll maximum be three or four pounds. And you know, she's all she's all chipped and she's got her shots and I think she's got one more round and you know, you guys will see her traveling with us. So, this will be the new baby. So, we're trying to keep her calm. She's already using the pea pads, which is really good. Wow. So far, so obviously that's good when we're in hotels and stuff like that, but obviously we'll train them to go outside, you know. Yeah. Uh, Capone's not adjusting that well. As many of you probably know that lose a dog and have another dog, he's he's depressed. He's a little depressed, but he's um so he's probably not I walked him this morning, so he's kind of he's chilling with Angie. I keep them separate right now because she drives him nuts. She just wants to chew his feet and everything. So, you'll get used to her. Yeah. Yeah. Well, congratulations and welcome uh welcome to So, it's been a lot of work the last couple days. You know, we're here. We're here ready for uh the holiday weekend. And you've been traveling a lot. We'll talk a little bit about that in a little jaywalk. But just came back from New York in Boston. Went over to see my mom another time. You know, my mom's 84 now, so I thought while I was on the East Coast, I figured I was just there like 3 weeks ago, you know. Great. Um, good for you. Yeah. So, we'll do a little walk and I'll put you with mama and then uh and then we'll uh we'll go for a walk, huh? All right, we're back day walking. Yeah. So, tell me about your extensive trip, man. You've been on the road non-stop. Yeah. I mean, I went to Montreal. How was that? Some guys came up to me that knew you. One of my friend Rich. Yeah. Yes. From I've known this guy since I'm like How did you know? Dude, I've known He's been like a child. No, but how did you know he came up to me because he told me he was going to go see you, his son before. Yep. He asked me. Couldn't get Dave to come up. I said, "No." So Dave's not coming back. That was a quick one, though. I got to UF UFC. I brought Val to UFC. It was awesome. Oh, you know, Dana and Hunter hooked me up with tickets for that. So, it was cool. Glad to see you. Wow. It was awesome. We had a good time. You know, the expo was amazing. The people were great. Like, it was packed. Yeah, it was really, really good. put on a really good event up there. That's a big deal for you to go there. Yeah. And then uh went to New York Pro. Uh saw, you know, Nick Walker win. He looked phenomenal. No controversy there. That's for sure. I know Pittsburgh. I didn't go to Pittsburgh cuz I was in Montreal that weekend, but Right. You know, a lot of controversy with Nick Walker. I know. I know. Derek definitely wasn't on point like he was at the Arnold. So that's what I thought. I think it opened the door a little bit. Yeah. Um, I don't know. The further we get away from the show, you know, I'm looking at it saying I think Nick probably could have won. Yeah. I mean, although the scorecards, it was it was literally a tossup, right? I mean, it came down to like some like uh sudden death type time break, which is crazy, but that's rare. Talking to Nick's mom, she didn't agree that it should have even close, but of course it's She's like your mom. Well, I know, but she's got a pretty good eye. I mean, if she thought I mean, Nick's definitely changed his physique, dude. I mean, they talk about how how he's not aesthetic and everything else, and he's not I don't call him aesthetic, but he actually flows pretty well. Yeah. I was happy for him, you know? And he qualified. Yeah. Yeah. And I qual Kyle Wils is his coach, dude. He does an amazing job. I've seen him I've seen him work with a lot of guys from Young LA and he helped the Trend Twins and all them and Okay. you know, I mean, they're he's he's very talented with his coaching. So, I was happy for Nick, happy for Derek, you know. Yeah. Uh, two big shows. Yep. I mean, you see Samson out there. He's doing an amazing job as Mr. Olympia. I mean, he's touring around. I see him. He's I just hope he's not too busy cuz you know how that is. You win the title and you you have big shoes to fill, right? Yep. So, I was happy for, you know, I'm just happy to see the whole industry as a whole just really uh, you know, with the the shows, man. You know, you saw Arnold bumped the money, right? Oh my god. Next year 7 big bump. I mean, I went 100 there. Let me ask you something. I know you weren't in Pittsburgh. What did you think about Keon posing with Samson on stage? Listen, Keon Keon's just biting his time. I commented on his pitcher last night like he could he could be in the top five easy at the Olympia. I think so too. And I think, you know, he's just he's going to ride his time, you know, win another 212, I think, pretty handedly. And we'll see what the the progression is. I He's still a young guy. I know. And remember, he was natural for a very long time. So, he uh he he trained his body to the fullest potential. Yeah. As a natural athlete. I mean, it's like a Ronnie Coleman in the making. Yeah, Kai. So, we haven't even seen Yeah. Kai Green. I mean, you haven't even seen the potential yet there. And he trains his ass off, which is that's crazy. He's so dedicated and uh it's just it's great to see. That's why I like to see the Walkers and the Lfords and Samsons and Nick Walkers and these guys that put 100% effort into what they do. Yeah. And Hottie Trooper the same. I mean, people are forgetting about him. how dangerous he's going to become October right here. So, yeah. I mean, but he he's probably coming towards the the tail end where I feel like Derek's just getting his rhythm. I feel like Samson's kind of just getting his rhythm. And I mean, Nick's just I mean, Nick's 31. He's same age as Derek. So young. It's crazy. I hope uh I hope it's a great battle at the Olympia. But but New York was good. Steve's was good. I went to Guy's event the day after guys, you know. It was good. nice. You know, he it's now been open two years, his second anniversary, and uh you know, he's he has a great great little culture over there, you know. Did a lot of people show up? Yeah, it was packed. Yeah. You know, a lot of the pros came. Yeah. Saw Kai Green and Regan came and uh Branch Warren flew in and flew out for it, which was amazing. Good. Everyone supports Guy, you know. He's a great guy. But we got to spend some time with Angie's family. Then we popped over, saw my mom, and uh she, you know, she uh obviously we got the dog. So, yeah. But back in Vegas, man, it's good to be back. What have I missed? Well, we just missed you. It's so weird for me not to see you that long. Yeah. I know a lot of people have been asking where I've been. Yeah. Yeah. They've been asking about Jay Walking. I said, "You're not here." Yeah. Well, everything's good, man. Business is cranking. We're selling a ton of liquids, you know, liquid alcarnitine, liquid pump. Working on a on a beverage type product now. Nice. Got some new flavors coming out of the products I just mentioned, new prevail flavor, working on a new protein flavor, even though it's super expensive. Yeah. But big shout out to everyone out there that supports the supplements. You know, we're doing extremely well. Um, you know, as you guys know, we're mostly online Amazon. um threat to consumer. Got in a couple South America countries uh recently. So, everyone's working hard behind the scenes. You know, Drew and the crew and you know, we're uh getting ready to launch, you know, another training app right now. So, we've been work working on that, shooting all the content with Jac and uh you know, that's pretty exciting. TRT Kingdom is cranking. Yeah, we're we're changing people's lives over there. people. A lot of great feedback, service has been tremendous. Um, you know, if you guys want to check that out, make sure you uh want blood work or y, you know, get hormones, everything else. TRT Kingdom, you know, that's my company. And, uh, you know, keeping me super busy, man. I'm off. I go to Nashville next next week at the Music City Fit Expo. Come out and see me out there if you guys are in the Nashville area. Then June 7th, Protein House Sacramento. I'll be out there with Andy. Awesome. Awesome. Yep. Meaf Fit's launching a bunch of new meals right now. So, I've been working on that. Just they launched a couple wraps which were good. And uh feeling it, man. It's uh everything is progressing well. Health is good. Training is good. I'm been taking training two days on, one day off now. Nice. I injured my bicep. I don't know if you knew that. Did I tell you that? You showed me. Yeah. Yeah. But it's better now. Look. Oh, good. Yeah. It's uh so weird. Yeah. So, I actually did back last night and it felt pretty good. So good. I I'm not indestructible. When I train 7 days a week, that's a lot. Yeah. Non-stop. I think I'm indestructible, but you know, that's a lot. We all suffer a little bit. Yeah. Well, glad to have you back. Yeah, we'll have to get a training session in. Can you do Sunday? Uh, probably. Great. Yeah. So, let's uh guys, thank you so much. Give me some feedback. Let me know how everyone's doing. Dave and I are back. Hopefully I'm can get a couple videos in here. Sorry for the hiatus, but we had some some downtime and and just traveling. So hopefully I don't once I get into June, I get a few weeks, but then it's not as crazy. So Oh, good. I'll hopefully be here this summer as we're tearing apart our house. So I know for jaywalking Dave and I, we're out. All right. No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones goes on you. I kept the script. I wrote a dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights.