back at kilo. Yeah, you're giving me a hard time already. Why? You just gave me a hard time cuz I was like, "Okay, so we're going to shoot a video and we're going to do this and that and we're going to recap it and uh you were like I said, I'm going to do four exercises for chest. Today's chest day." And what did you say? I said you'll do more of that. You always do at the last minute. Ah, let's do one more. You know what's funny though is just for the people be that are listening to this or watching, you know, someone people are walking around their house listening to this right now. I actually do the movements. This isn't just for YouTube. I don't just say, "Hey, let's go do one set." Yeah. This is a real workout. Yeah. So, this is like raw. And I was talking about how people watch our stuff. You know, we just posted a jaywalk today. You know who does that that I film every time? Morin. What do you mean? Well, like if I make an appointment to go film her, she she she says, "Okay, I got to work out at that time." But she said, "You know what? Let's just film one and get it over with and then she'll really work out." I understand that though because to be honest, it's hard. Like, you remember when Mits used to come shoot the Battle Force and all that DVD stuff. I was like, "Man, I can't stand having the cameras there." I used to tell him, "Don't talk to me. Don't ask me any questions. And don't ask me to change weights." What a great time. What a great training partner I am. Huh? Did I ever tell you don't let I'm not changing your weights or? No. But do you remember how many people actually used to come in and train with us? Oh man, that was fun. I felt like that was like our training camps. We had to We did those. You organized the training camps. We did the charity for Make a Wish LA. Yeah. We should do another one actually. And the one we did in Vegas was good. Yeah. You know who's coming from that camp? Who come visit me? Pete. Pete. I'm sorry. Jesus. Yes. What am I thinking for? Yeah. What am I thinking? Pete Pete. He's great. Good guy. Yeah. He was um border security. He is for Arizona. He's dealt with all that stuff. So, you're going to teach them the full-time bodybuilding. I think he just needs to get away. You know, sometimes your life becomes too much and you need to a change. So, it's not much change when you go from Arizona to Vegas. I guess it's a little cooler here. to be around people and, you know, different gyms and all that stuff. But I'm looking forward to it. If you're down at Dragons, you should go over and see Andy at Protein House. He's here until we go on our trip. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. He's going to be at the Blue Diamond location. A little bit. I used to see him at Dragons all the time. Do you ever go to um Protein House ever still after training there or? Uh, not after training. I've been going I went when we had your show in Vegas and stuff. I went like I think three days in a row. I bet you'll actually see him uh at the gym. Yes. Yeah. Because he texted me the other day. He says, "I'm staying actually till we do the thing on the 7th." Yeah. He's a great dude. He's loving Arizona, though. Yeah. He likes it. He said good uh good culture there, you know. Yeah. I've been only once and I liked it. But Victor's there. Oh, he is. Victor lives there. You didn't tell me that. Yeah. Victor works out there. He came to see me at one of the appearances I did. Okay. Wow. Yeah. So, we're at Kilo, guys. It's a holiday weekend. I I assume no one's training, but of course we are. And uh we're going to do some chest today. And pretty standard uh chest workout, incline, flat, fly, something else. Dave says we're going to do more, but uh we always start with calves. Now, prioritize the weaker body parts. All right. So, my calves were at one point a weak body part. Do I really care about calves now? Not so much. Uh, but I do train him once a week with chest training. Um, I have been cycling a little different now um with my training which we've been taking more days off just because I went and actually saw Cory yesterday says hello by the way to get massages. That's why I was confused. So to get massage yesterday um so uh I have been trying to take a day off. I have not though this week yet. This is my number fourth day in a row. So, probably tomorrow I'll take off. I thought you said you were doing two two on two on one off, but I I got bored yesterday, so I came to the gym and did shoulders late. It was late. Yeah, a little later. Like five. Yeah. Um but it was okay. You know, we just Right now we're doing the remodel. You saw the kitchen's not not They're coming to do the countertops tomorrow. We had no Wi-Fi yesterday, so I was absolutely out of my mind. Camping because we we can't get like I can't flick through Instagram or do anything. I was trying to watch YouTube. Like I went to sleep last night and usually I watch like financial stuff on YouTube and I couldn't even watch that last night. So I was like going crazy. I slept on the couch cuz Angie's been sick, you know. She slept in the bedroom. That's why you always go crazy. Yeah. So yeah. And she can't really do that much. So usually we'd be in California this weekend. We actually talked about going to Venice. Yeah. But tomorrow is the Muscle Beat Show. We usually go Memorial Day. Yeah. Yeah. But we have to give thanks to our fallen veterans, everyone that gave their lives to fight for our freedom. You know, you're a huge USA guy. So, um, we have to observe that. I know some people look at as like a day off and, you know, businesses are closed, banks, you know, national holiday, but um, you know, our military was so so important. I'm still running into people all over. You know, I was in I was in uh Virginia for DMV a few weeks ago and they were talking about, you know, some of the Marines when we went to Do you miss doing that? When we went, you know, you and I went on a couple. Yeah. So, and I'm like I was thinking about it. Yeah. I was thinking when you went with me and it was probably one of those times and uh I miss it, man. And you know, there's no excuse like co totally destroyed us from doing it. It held us back. But I think now we can actually uh Could you go? Yeah, I think we should, you know, try at least get going with uh the ones closer to us, you know. But it's pretty close. Oh, Nellis, you mean? No, we could do Nellis. We could do Pendleton and 29. I mean, yeah. I mean, that's a good reason to go to Cali, that's for sure. Yeah, we got to get out there. And I mean, I know Golds I saw they refurbished um I saw Mike um who's No, Mike. Um who was the guy who ran Golds? Mike Ryan posted that they refurbished the inverted leg press and something else outside. Okay. So, they redid the pads and re smooth and everything and actually machine. So, we'll have to get out there. And you know that every time we want to go, we're always welcome. So, Jeff is great. Yeah. Maybe the end of June. Are you going for your birthday weekend or Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Will you be in town? Will you not travel? Yeah, I'm done. Uh that was actually San Jose Fit Expo, but it got cancelled. We uh I'm surprised. Yeah, we we talked about maybe doing Puerto Rico, but just for Angie's birthday, your birthday, same weekend, but we'll see. Hopefully the house will be It depends how deep we get into the construction right now. Yeah. But all you guys on social media that continue to give us motivation, I want to thank you so much. Uh thanks for all the comments, too, people. Yeah. And and listen, you know, Dave Dave obviously um has battling some some unfortunate health issues, you know, and like I know you guys have been responsive when I'm out and about saying I hope Dave's doing well and so nice, you know, you're you're trying to progress, you know, you're getting all your stuff aligned and I ask him all the time how he's doing, how he's feeling, and you know, he's still making time to come do these things. So, just bear with us a little bit because between my travel schedule and his appointments and trying to get his stuff, he's still trying to train, you know, he's still somewhat I wouldn't call him a full-time bodybuilder, but how many days a week you training now? Four days. Yeah, four days. And you're still struggling to eat, right? It's just that's the problem. It's just my appetite is really not what it should be. So, it's really hard to train with no energy, you know? I'm always feeling like I've got this empty tank. Have you been consistent though with your days or like are you missing weeks at a time still? The only time the only time I miss training is when I go to California. Okay. Yeah. But I think I'm going to if he watches this, he's going to laugh. I'm going to I'm going to try to ask Psycho Fitness for a free pass at this gym. He just text me yesterday. Really? Yeah. So I can go train over there. So, Chris Psycho, let's I I'll buy Dave a pass if it costs money. I'm sure he'll let you come train over. How far is it from where you stay? It's only 15 miles. Oh, okay. Not bad. I know, but 15 miles in California can be It could be 30, 40 minutes. Yeah, but I got nothing else to do on vacation, you know? So, it's nice to take a drive on the PC. Wow. If you spend more time out there, bro, maybe you get jump back on a motorcycle, you know. I do miss that. You know, Matt and Rean are there now, you know, because Rean just won yesterday. The California Pro qualified for the Olympia. And I he text me this morning because they were sending me video of them walking. And I said, "Dude, you can't do that at 8:00 in Las Vegas. It's already hot." You know, cuz the funny thing is I want to still walk a pone in the morning. And and uh you know, I uh let me uh me buzz this guy in. And uh Oh, you can do that with the phone. I don't. Yeah, I mean I should be able to Hold on. Uh I forgot what I was saying though. You're talking about Rean and Matt walk. Yeah, so they were walking to It's hard to do. I have to walk a pone early otherwise it's just he's panting you know. So uh yeah, so we're going to hit some chess guys. Um you know just rolling with it man. And uh once again I want I was thanking everyone for all their continuous support online. You guys continue to give us a motivation man. And I'm sure some days your workouts, Dave, you you'd struggle and when you see these messages, you said to me a million times all the people reaching out to you and checking on you and like it means a lot, man. You don't realize how many people you touched base with. And like I said, check out our latest Jaywalk if you guys haven't gone back. I asked a question. And I we actually decided between the title Nick Walker or Keon Pearson like you know what who's I think Nicks could be in you know he could be the front runner at the Olympia the way he looked and then Keon could be we're waiting dude we're waiting for that that open cuz I think he could I told him about that I told him make sure to watch Jay Jay walking and then we're talking about you and he says oh my god thank you so much it makes me feel so good and and keeps me like you see him a lot when you train at dragons he's back at dragons And he did say, I'm going to put it on camera. He did say, "Would you would you please ask Jay to train with me one of these time?" Because I know he's busy. I can't keep up with him, bro. Well, he wants to train with you. So, I think it's just motivation, you know. That would be like me in my prime training with me. No. Who who who who was like just trying to think who would ask me to train and I would be like I mean like a female. Okay. Like it'd be like me at my prime training with a female. Yeah. Jen's pretty good. She could Oh, she Yeah, of course she But I'm not saying she's not normal. No, she's not. I'm saying like it's normal like, "Hey, I want to train with you." Okay. I don't want to change your weights. I don't want to spot you. What a great training partner, you know. Well, I think I think it'd be a good video of you and Keon. Yeah, that's what I think. But well, he will be the second guy to win both two 212 in the open. Putting it out there. Okay. Yeah. Calling it. I don't want to jinx it, but I see it. He's locked in, man. He's a tweet. Yeah, he I just was watching him do belt squats yesterday on Instagram. I thought this morning, and I'm like, dude, his legs improved so much, man. He posed with Samson. You brought that up, right? Yeah, that was great. I was really glad to see that because you always wonder, oh, you know, what the comparisons would be. So, I was, and shout out to Big John and Drink Benjamin Blue. Um, this is his water company that they're hooking me up. So, nice. Feel it. It feels like money, Dave. Oh, feel it. It does. Yeah. Yeah. It's a Make sure you guys check it out. You guys will see me drinking this all the time now. So, uh, we'll start we'll do some calves and we'll roll with it and, uh, we'll wrap it up at the end. All right. All right. So, I'm ready to start training for today's everyone favorite day, which is chest day. But we always start with calves. So, anyone that knows me knows that on chest day, I always do calf. So, I always start with at least two exercises. Now, depending where I train, my favorite exercise to always start with is a standing calf raise. Now, I do these in kind of a one-two motion. So, if you notice, you know, I do the I do a nice stretch at the bottom. I pop halfway up and then come all the way up for that peak contraction. Okay? So, you really want to just kind of trigger the calves, get it up, and then really get that peak contraction. Now, I'll do anywhere between 10, 12, 15 repetitions with this. I do pyramid the weight up and like I said, the stretch is really important, but also that peak contraction. And then secondly, we'll roll into the seated calf. Okay? Try to work. Now they say that the standing calf is going to work more of the inner inner part of the calf the gastro and then the soio outside is going to be your seated calf with a bent knee. Okay, which my third exercise I always love to do is the donkey calf raise which I will not do today but ideally if I was to give the best advice to build bigger calves if you can do the donkey calf with the weight on the back that's going to be probably my favorite exercise. just I don't know how you feel about it, but uh you know, try this. Um like I said, prioritization is really important for those weaker body parts. And it seems like everyone's calves are always like that's the biggest question is how can I build bigger calves? Remember the stretch, the contraction, and the constant tension of, you know, the repetition range. Really get those fibers. Remember, you're walking around in this all day, so you have these these slow and fast twitch fibers that you need to stimulate both. So, moderate to heavy weight and just focus on those contractions. Seated calf raise. Now, I talked about this exercise being ideal because the leg is bent, right? So, it's going to hit that outer part of the calf, right? Not necessarily isolation, but I feel like, you know, with this, the foot position stays totally straight. Now, there's a lot of variations of seated calf machines where you're either closer to the ground, you know, the platform is angled. You know, you have these different feels and depending really on what kind of shoes, you know, the Jordan ones are always one of my favorite shoes to wear. I know some of you guys are training barefoot these days. Uh, I feel like your the sole has to have enough not too much cushion. I feel like you almost have to have a harder soul to really get the contraction out of these. And yes, you can do barefoot. But I think ideally you're going to feel the most when your feet, but how much weight can you actually use without it hurting the pad of your feet, right? So ideally with this 10 or 12, 15 reps, really get that contraction. If you notice with these, I actually have a little more of a stretch on these. Just preference, just feel. Uh I've been doing calves for a super long time. Uh like I said, I do these once every five to seven days, always on chest day. And uh always the second exercise of the calf training um after I start with focusing more on the inner calf. Show that one two motion. Good. All right. So, our first exercise for chest training is going to be the incline hammer press. Now, this is a selector eye. So, this is a pin loaded machine. And what I'll do with this is I'll do two field sets, two warm-up sets, and go into mainly three working sets. Now, all my sets consist of 12, 15 reps, sometimes 10. I mean, I kind of switch around depending on how I am that day. So, I just completed two warm-up sets. Now, I'll pyramid the weight up. So, when I say pyramid, I'll probably go up at least, you know, 10 lbs each side because this is an isolateral. Now, some of you guys do this single arm at a time. I still prefer the double, but what's nice about this is we always have one side that is stronger than the other, so it does give that ability. That's what I love about using dumbbells and certain machines rather than just strict barbell because you can get that isolation to each side depending on your strength pattern. And I think that's really important especially you guys trying to train smart injury-free or working around you know aches and pains or injuries. And sometimes that can happen as you get a little older. Sometimes, you know, certain cycles of your training, you know, you do have to cycle how heavy you go, but try to stay moderate to heavy consistently. But listen, some days you're going to go in the gym, you're not going to go full force. Today is one of those days where I feel good, but I'm not going to do any weight records today. And you guys have seen in the past, I've had the mindset going in and being like, I'm just going to do this crazy amount of weight today. Sometimes it's ego, but you got to check the ego. Leave it at the door when you walk in the gym and just focus on those contractions. So, the goal is to hit my chin with my chest. burn. So I just mentioned to you we never use this machine. So this is a isolateral bench press. Hammer strength, right? Yeah. So, I've been doing this standing, you know, is it elevation or strength culture? They have this standing. Yes. It's really good. So, this is similar to that, which I kind of like kind of just being in this seated position. You know, we do all the dumbbell work. We do all the barbells. You know, I was maybe thinking about using that Smith machine. I guess that's called a freedom rack, but I want to do this today. just because it's a little different. What I like about this once again, it's an isolateral movement. So, you can be if you're stronger and uh we'll we'll do three sets here. Going to start with two plates aside and then we'll do uh we'll do um a little pyramiding probably depending on how this weight feels. Let me see how this feels. So, what I'll do is I'll drop the seat down pretty low. Not all the way down, but pretty close to pretty low just so I can get that contraction. Remember, hands mid-range here. So, pay attention to, you know, a lot of see a lot of people pushing here. More triceps. So, more pecs. Drop down. Okay. Contract. Weight feels good. I'm going to go up a 10 on each side, though. All right. So, we're going to do your favorite exercise, the dumbbell fly. Tell me why this is your favorite exercise. Is this It's a good feeling when you open up, but it's the easiest. Yeah. Oh, god. This is definitely Merlin approved. Okay. So, you can send them this clip. All right. So, we are going to do a dumbbell fly. And what I have in front of me is called the Jbell. The J Cutler bells. Okay. So, this is actually like a bowling ball. You actually put your hand down inside. And you guys had asked about these dumbbells. When I let this go, it falls out. Your your hand falls out of them. So, I know there was concern, oh, doesn't it pull in your wrist? Whatot when you let this go? It had does have padding around the edge, but your it just drops out. But what what's nice about this, you do not get you get the same feel all the way around. So no matter what the position is, sometimes when you do flies with dumbbells, if they tilt or whatnot, it it tends to drag more pressure on certain uh fibers of the arm and whatnot, where this is just a constant feel. And what I love about this is is yes, they're round, so you don't have that that kind of lopsided um uneven uh you know, awkward balance. Yeah. It's just there balance. So, I think that ideally I love to do these. I mean, I don't have enough in here to actually press with because these only go up to like 45 or something here in the gym. I think these are in kilos right now. But, uh, I'm going to do some fly movements. And with these, I do three sets. Three sets um of 10, 12, 15 reps. Uh, I always talk about 12 reps as necessity. I always aim for 12, but sometimes I fall short. go a little higher uh because of the weight variance and not being extremely heavy. Not that I train that heavy these days, but I'm going to get that full contraction. And when I come up, I'm really going to squeeze the chest. Not actually, like I always say, don't touch the things together and take the tension and, you know, or do too much to bring the triceps in. I'm trying to work all the chest and keep everything else out, which is almost impossible. But I'm going to do my best to really get that minor muscle connection and uh get the best feel, guess best stretch. I've already done all the pressing exercises. So, now I want to stretch this bad boy out. And uh check out my form. Nice burn. Good. How's that angle? Good. Yeah. See, I'm not touching them. I'm contracting the chest. Ah, good touch. Yeah. All right. So, we're going to do the Atlantis fly. Now, this is a pec deck. So, cable crossovers is probably the most go-to exercise whether you do the low cables, the higher cables, any kind of a fly movement. So, I always talk about going through the movements, really getting the blood in there. So most of the time our more compound exercise are going to get the best blood flow with the heaviest, you know, touch those fibers with the heavy weights. So dumbbell presses, barbell presses, machine presses, really stimulate, you know, hitting those fibers. And then we stretch it out with the flies. You know, we just did some dumbbell flies, but this is going to be our final exercise for today. And this is more imitating, I guess, a cable machine, but what I love about this is it's a selectorized piece. Atlant's makes some amazing equipment and ideally because you can raise the platform. So depending on your height, I like to platform at a mid-range here. I'm about 5 foot n so that allows me to really get that contraction and really squeeze and really get the outer pecs, the lower pecs. You guys constantly ask me about those lower pecs. This would be a great exercise for that. Ideally, the only way to really get that chiseled line is to stay on a great diet. Okay? You have to be cut enough to really get that, you know, keep the midsection tight. You know, I always said that if you want to be in the ideal body fat level year round, you should be having visible abs. If you're not having visible abs, do not go into a bulking season or, you know, what we call offseason. I would try to stay on some sort of a diet or nutrition program that allows you or cardio program training that allows you to stay lean enough so you can see, you know, your midsection. you can see. I mean, obviously I'm pretty lean, but ideally to show your abs year round. Okay, that's the ideal. You never want to get, you know, fluffy far off. Yeah. Fluffy. So, we're going to do this exercise three sets. We're going to probably stay with probably about the same weight. So, this is about like 150. And what I'm going to do is just really just kind of squeeze. You'll see me get in there, really get the body position right, step up to the machine, get that contraction, and uh, you know, see how many reps we can do. All right. Once again, the hands are at the midway, guys. So, halfway on the handles. If you notice, not at the edge or not at the very end. So, I'm definitely going to pyramid the weight up a little bit. This is a great starting weight, though. You see me lean in a little bit. Get that contraction. Really, if I feel a little lighter on the first set, I I do a little more squeezing to really get that feel. Okay, I need to go up a little bit. We constantly talk about the time in between each set. Now, normally if I was training with a partner, usually the partner go, I go. So, it ends up being around a minute. I always say 45, 60, 60 seconds. If I was training by myself, it's I do have shorter rest periods. And once again, I'm not trying to break any weight records. So, you guys are training moderate weight, I I suggest the shorter rep, uh the shorter sets, um you know, rest time in between each set. Uh but if you're really trying to put on the mass, get stronger. You know, one to three minutes is usually uh the standard. Sometimes you guys doing five minutes depending on how much power training you're doing. But, so enough to catch the breath. I mean, I like to still keep my heart rate up a little bit. And uh like I said, I'm I'm kind of working on the tail end of the workout this time. Uh but my volume is definitely not as high as it used to be. You know, used to see me do 30 sets for chest. Uh definitely scale back some. Recovery is a little less. Like I I always do some sort of cardio after training now. So that uh it is a little different for me now. And like I said, I'm not really trying to break any body records. I'm just really just trying to stay in good shape. So, I went up about 20 pounds here. All right, guys. Uh, we're going to wrap this thing up and I want to kind of just a little review, recap what we do. So, we started with the incline hammer machine, which is a selectorized piece here at the Kilo Club. Uh, two warm-up sets, two field sets. Then I did three working sets, pyramiding the weight up. Uh, felt really good. Get the blood going. If you notice, my chest is really contracting on this. Uh, mainly focus on the upper chest. Okay. Second exercise was the hammer strength. uh kind of upright press which is another a isolateral. It is a plate loaded machine. Uh this is focusing more on the mid-range chest, lower chest, upper chest. But once again, this is a little different variation than the past. Um still focus on, you know, 10 or 12 reps here. Really getting the feel. By this point, the blood is kind of flowing. Everything's pretty solid. Then we moved over to our flies, which we did with the Jbells, uh which, you know, I did those on a flat bench. What I really like about this is, like I said, it's it's very balanced and it's very um neutral to my wrist. So, I did three working sets there. Uh basically uh the same weight because like I said, the weight is a little limited. Getting that nice stretch. And then lastly, we moved over to the Atlantis fly machine. Now, I put two fly presses in there and then two um you know uh actually uh pressing machines in there. So, this uh Atlantis uh machine really gets that contraction. Really feeling, you know, the fibers work, lower chest, outer chest. Uh like I said, you can raise that platform, which is really nice. Allowed us um the flexibility to be able to get in there, get that nice stretch. I feel a good pump. All in all, it was a great workout. Uh once again, I always love coming to this gym because it is super quiet. It is exclusive club. You cannot come here to Vegas and get a day pass at this gym. It's a membersonly gym. And once again, um, if you guys recall, you know, Jay Jung, who used to do City Athletics, you know, he's got a great job over here stocking this with new equipment. They're constantly getting new things, uh, switching things out. Just got the new treadmills in from Techno Gym, which I love the Techno Gym stuff. They do have some pieces in here. Also some, uh, some of the, uh, plate loaded machines, which is nice. But, uh, great atmosphere. It's not a a gym that plays super loud music. A lot of times when I'm locked in and I'm listening to usually, believe it or not, I listen to a lot of podcasts when I actually uh when I actually work out, you know, most people listen to music and get kind of amped up, but I tend to listen to more financial a lot of real estate. Lately, I'm I'm very interested in how the real estate market obviously with the interest rates and what's going on with the economy, the stock market. As you guys know, as you get a little older, you start thinking about what the future's going to bring and we get closer to retirement and, you know, where we're heading. And as you guys know, I moved to Vegas for the real estate market. I was a real estate investor in the early 2000s. Um, do do a little bit in that now. Um, not as diverse, uh, as into residential, commercial, all that. I do mainly just one project a year. Um, which is pretty substantial. But, you know, I'm still doing that. I'm still doing the supplements, obviously, TRT, the food. Uh, you know, you still be me doing the chic and the fat grips, all that stuff. And, of course, Young LA with the clothing. So big shout out to all the people out there supporting all those brands and uh more importantly uh you know let's let's keep motivating each other. I put these videos out uh just for the you know just for the knowledge you know I try to educate a little bit. You guys see my reels and all my posts all over the place where I'm really trying to to put out that educational process now because I feel like there's so much misinformation out there and what I say is is just based on my experience. It's not necessarily this is the correct way to do it. It's not the only way, but I did have great success. You know, I stayed mostly injury-free through my career. Uh, still at 51 going on 52. I I feel amazing. Uh, I'm still getting into the gym and training full capacity. No aches, no pains, no restrictions. Uh, like I said, I'm still doing the body work. I'm still stretching as much. I'm still getting up doing the cardio. But number one thing that I do for all guys, and you know, if you know me on a on a daily basis, is the nutrition is key. Okay? I'm still prepping all my food. Um, I still eat at least four portion meals a day. Yes, I have some Cutler shakes in there and whatnot, but I still try to focus mainly on the food and and like I said, it's it's coming in the gym and being uh responsive every day. Uh, trying to train with a goal just to, you know, stay in great shape, stay healthy, and of course watching my markers. That's of course why I started the TRT, you know, TRT Kingdom, which you guys can see the link below. Um, you know, all the blood work. You know, you guys need to get your checkups. You need to watch what your hormones level do as you know. whether you're transitioning out of fitness into it, uh trying to lose weight. You know, that's one big thing that we're doing now is a lot of people are coming for weight challenges. Uh so I I do like to give people the availability to learn a little bit more. I just was mentioning Dave, you know, we do have, you know, Dr. Rand, Ask the Doc. Um we did do that series. We're going to bring a few of those back because I have been traveling quite a bit and getting a lot of requests to uh you know, where's the Ask the Doc stuff? So, we are going to bring that back on. And you know, Dave's in charge of that, but he has to go to California in order to shoot that cuz Rand is there. Uh, but once again, we have so many great um contributions to the channel. You know, we had Sergio, we had Ashlin lately. Um, you know, hopefully we can get Keon on there. Um, and you know, we just continue to roll with it. We're just trying to think of of newer people to bring on. And you know, we just had Rean, you know, I know we had him on there before. He just he just qualified for the Mr. Olympia this weekend at the California Pro which we did. We haven't come in a while though in the gym. We need to get we need to get him and Andy training and um I think you know listen it's always great that we're in the hot bed of fitness. You know the uh Vegas market is crazy. We have a lot of great gyms. We try to share the love between all the gyms. It's just so easy sometimes for me to train at the same places all the time. But we did talk about there's a great gym called Coast to Coast that's we're going to actually check out. We're still going to do our workout at Cult Fitness. You know, we still share our love between, you know, Fit Clubs, um, Strength Culture, which is the old Elevation, uh, Powerhouse Gym, um, Chris's gym. Uh, uh, help me. Chris's, um, where Yaks Fitness. Oh. Uh, you know, Lift Factory. Um, we have so many guys. Dragons, of course. Yeah, Dragons, you know, Flex's gym, you know, and shout out to EOS. Shout out to LVAC. Like we've shot a bunch of their their places before. I am I want to go back to the Lake Me EOS which I did I just talked to Marcel who runs those clubs and I said, "Hey, is my membership still active there?" I have a lifetime membership at EOS. So, it's kind of nice. I could travel all over the world. You remember when we were there last time? I mean, you were still competing and the alarm went off. We had to leave the gym. Yeah. So, he did say So, we're going to check out because they tell me that Lake me's been done. If you guys watched a lot of my old videos, Lake Meade was like my home gym and I have so many people telling me they've upgraded and added some Arsenal equipment and some other things in there. So, we're going to have to go check that out. And it's only like 5 minutes from my house to be honest. Yeah. And uh you know, once again, guys, please comment below. Please tell me how your training is going, how you've incorporated something that we've done. Uh maybe you know, hey, some suggestions, uh maybe some criticisms, you I don't mind the criticisms once in a while. You know, people talk about, you know, my rep ranges, how half half reps work. Uh it's just listen, I'm feeling it. I'm pushing through. I I want to be transparent and show you guys, you know, how I'm doing things on a daily basis. Uh and I have goals, man. 52 is coming in August. So, like, you know, do I start another transformation here? Really hard right now cuz I have no kitchen. So, you know, even this morning I had, you know, me fit breakfast sandwiches, you know, which wouldn't be my ideal for a breakfast. You know, they are great when I'm traveling, but ideally I like to have my egg whites, you know, my my grits or my cream or rice from rice and grime. 100 grams of protein breakfast. Yeah. Yeah. 100 grams protein. Still doing it though. But that was like one of the best video we ever made, you know, millions of people can't believe it. They said, and you know, the new studies have shown since then, just like I'll talk about this and I'll talk about creatine. So, the studies have shown that yes, you can assimulate 100 grams of protein. Now, have you seen this? Yes. I have not seen. So, you guys that wanted to criticize my 100 g protein, I need to do another video and show that the studies have now shown that you can utilize this. And Milos, actually, I talked to him about it. He said the same thing. What about creatine? What about creatine? And the dosage of five grams a day has now gone up to 20 grams a day. In fact, they're telling the younger generation, the women, the older people, they're talking about bone density. They're talking about co cognitive reasons, heart reasons, so many benefits other than muscle building for creatine. Now, we talked about creatine being um available, you know, indirectly in red meat. Creatine is still the number one and most research selling supplement on the market. I do have it available at jcutler.com. If you guys want to get, you know, your creatine, get on my list or whatever else, you know, go over there, use the code cutler if you want to put this on. you will save 20% or take advantage of the sale that we currently have because we usually have some on the-site sales going on. But use code cutler anytime guys on jcutler.com and you will save 20%. Okay, even you international people. Um I do ship all over the world and uh once again thank you guys so much for the support. Um I don't know what else to say. What else do I need to say? No, that's pretty good, man. I'm glad we I'm glad we're back in this was Dave's idea to come shoot today, by the way. So, thank big Dave behind the camera. He's uh he's feeling up to it. Hopefully, we can get another session in this week. And uh before you go, yeah, you know, I leave Thursday to head to Nashville. So, if you guys are in Nashville next weekend, I'm coming. So, by the time this video is out, it'll be this coming weekend. Uh that I'll be in Nashville Friday, Saturday. Brian Shaw's there with me, too, for the Music City Fit Expo. Um and then I'll be June 7th in uh Sacramento for Protein House. So, awesome. Uh, appreciate you guys so much. Uh, for Dave and myself and here at Kilo Club Las Vegas, we are out. No mercy for you, no worries for you. That Game of Thrones goes on you. I kept the script, I roll the dice, don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to shut