 All right, seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing What's that? Yeah, so we're at Coast to Coast. Yes. I'm going to do a little, see what we can get done today. And it's not going to be legs because legs was yesterday. Oh, yeah. What are you going to do for? I can do anything but legs. Okay. You know, I trained while I was away this weekend, but we'll see what they got, you know. Yeah. We're trying to do like a little mini gym tour. Yeah. Maybe places we haven't been to before. I know. Where haven't we been? The new fit club here. We have to go back to Iris's probably at some point. Yeah. They haven't been there since the anniversary party. So you said there's someone here, right? Yes. Someone named Adrian. I probably met him. This isn't where I thought it was, though, to be honest. No, I guess. It's kind of hidden a little bit. Did you come over here and train before? I did. A few times, a couple times. Really? Yeah. You haven't brought over the super trainer here? No. Huh? No, he's far. He is? Well, not as close as I am. All right. So, we just make our way in? Huh? We'll go. I thought someone would be at the front desk, but... Hey. Hey, guys. Huh? I thought someone would be at the front desk, but... No. Okay. Yeah. Yep, yep, yep. And there's another gym right there, which is more like a... Like a function... Like a private studio? Yeah. We can go. Huh? You can use your fob to go there, but... Hmm? It's a functional gym, sort of. Bags and... Cardio and all that stuff. This is it, huh? Yeah. It's nice. And there's a door. All right, so you're going to have to do a... A whole overview of the gym. Yes. Put some music to it. I think that's how you should start the video. Okay. So, kind of... Do kind of a walkthrough. Okay. As long as people don't mind you getting them on film, you know? Yeah. So, okay. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because we're kind of trying to showcase a little bit, right? Of course, of course. All right, so they've got a T-bar row. So, what is this now? It's a... They call it a functional room. I know, but like, what do you mean? Well, let me... Let me open it. You need a fob, or...? You need the fob, yeah. There you go. I know, but can you shoot in here, or is people going to be upset about it, or...? What is it? Huh? We're going to show it. Because they've got like a hammer row and all that. Yeah. Right? Yeah, they've got some cardio. A good... I didn't actually train here last time. I didn't come into training. You've got a pullover machine. This one's a good one. Hey, well... Just... Just... Hammer strength, yes. Yeah, it's got some good machine. Nice. Oh, recovery room. See, there you go. Oh, they have it. Nice. Nice. Yeah. Pretty cool. It is cool. I mean, it's... Literally... Seven minutes from my house. Five minutes. It's great. Yeah, like I said, it's not exactly where I thought it was, to be honest. Where did you picture it? Is that the kid working here? Adrian? Oh, hi. How are you? Hey, nice to meet you. Hey, man. What's going on? We came over to just shoot some content today. Did the Alexander... Alexander told you we were coming? Yeah, all hundred people. Okay, great. Great. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I might do a little arms. I don't know. We'll see. See what... Like, mess around a little bit. We'll see. Okay, yeah. Is it okay if I get a picture with you? Yeah, of course. Yeah, of course. Yeah. Let's do it, man. How you doing? Okay? Good. Yeah, pretty good. It's not... Sorry about that. Just press the button. There you go. All right. One, two, three. There you go. It's great to meet you. My pleasure, man. Yeah. Thank you so much. Yeah. Thanks so much, bro. I'm excited for the show. I'm super excited. Yeah, you guys are going to sponsor it, huh? Yeah, yeah. That's cool, man. Yeah. Nice. You were the lucky one today. I know, I was. Yeah. I'm really lucky. I'm here. I got the day off because it's Veterans Day, so I'm never here in the morning. Are you in high school or...? Yeah, yeah. I'm a junior. Nice. Okay. Cool, man. Very cool. We're going to film a little bit. Okay, yeah. Get to it. Thank you, man. Yeah, thanks. Thank you, man. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing I got you on camera, Adrian. Alright. Alright. Back for the day. Yeah, so we're going to start with some hammer rows, which any gym that has the high row is always my go-to exercise because I don't get to use it that much. I don't really, a lot of gyms don't carry it. Keto isn't added? No, not the high row. Okay. Okay. So, I'll make sure I do a little lower the seat a little bit. Always warm up with a couple plates. You know, get a good stretch going. I had this in my home gym when I built the home gym in Spencer, you know? Mm-hmm. If you remember, a lot of people actually grabbed it like this in a day, right? Yes. Gives you a better stretch. A little more of a stretch on it, yeah. Alright. So, ideally, what I'm trying to do is just get in the gym. You know, I've had two meals today already, so it's almost noon. I've been getting up early because I was on East Coast time for like a few days this week, but I still try to get up early and start eating and try to at least get four meals a day just for function, pretty much. Yeah. I mean, if you already have two right now. Yeah, I'll eat four or five, you know? Yeah, yeah. But the main thing is just to get the blood going and I'm not overdoing it with the sets these days. I think I've definitely backed down on some of the volume just for recovery purposes because I'm training seven days a week, you know? Yeah. I just try to get in the gym, just get moving every day. seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing See what else I got over here. Alright, always exercise number two. Okay, three sets of dumbbell rows. So we'll start with a decent weight. We'll probably start with 80. Then we go up to 90. So what I'm trying to focus on this is just really trying to lean on the rack and just bring to the hip a little bit. Sometimes I roll a little more out. Sometimes more straight up. So see how this feels. seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing all right guys so we have a couple different options here you know i'm going to switch this up actually so we're gonna do some some extensions but so i hate to call these hyper extensions this is what i used to call them everything's changed now with all the bro science out there but this is kind of kind of mimic a pullover so basically what i'm going to do is just come so i'm really just trying to get a stretch on my latch for some reason i always felt a longer straight bar so it's rare that gyms have these to actually turn so if your gym has a bar that's pretty straight like this and long i like to do them a little wider i mean everyone does the rope and they come through the body but with these what i like to do is instead of standing straight onto the cable i actually angle a little bit okay see my grip pay attention to that grip a little wider and uh i'll step out really kind of getting that stretch all right let's go to a little heavier 100 makes you hold this so you don't hit yourself in the head okay so nice step out okay i'm gonna get a good stretch on the lats right there and pull to the waist pop the chest up as you come up not a crazy heavy set but enough to get that extension that's i'm just squeezing the lower lats as i come through pay attention to my arms they're pretty straight so it's all laps and not biceps or anything else really kind of pay attention to that yeah because too many people it's hard exercise to kind of learn i try to teach a million people this but it's about getting the right distance and the right feel to really kind of pull through with your lats okay so same thing 10 12 reps three sets each all right all right this is pretty much a standard cd cable row so you want to talk about the density so we have width movements like from standing front forward and then our side so you want to work on that density and to get that naughtiness in the back especially in the back double so what i do like to use i do like to use straps when i do these exercises although you'll notice if you really pay attention i kind of use my fingers as hooks but with that strap it allows me to be a little looser with it because i don't have to think so much about grabbing it same thing eight to 12 reps could be a little more a little less i'm going to start with 160 and uh kind of just remember when we come back i don't want to come back i want to kind of keep my body straight keep the chest up a little bit so pay attention to my form i don't hopefully it looks good on camera but sometimes my foreign form is pretty shitty but okay so mid-range grip you can see okay see my fingers as hooks okay thumbs are up and out okay 160 right to the waist okay we'll go up a little bit okay i think that was 11. the most standard exercise there is the pull down now this is a variation you guys seen the bar versions you've seen me do reverse grip which i did last week by the way so this is a little different handle so that's more of a inside grip handle okay what i'm trying to do is not use a ton of body momentum with this even though i tend to do uh so just trying to get 10 reps weight's not super heavy i'm just really trying to pull the lats and uh i'm trying to contract at the bottom there'll be a slight resistance of me going back up for that full contraction so what i'll try to do is just a slight slight pause it's very very minimal but i am actually contracting the lats at the bottom okay a little hold right there so as soon as i start feeling the biceps that's enough my back is definitely has gotten weaker so when you talk about as you age a little bit and you feel certain contractions blood flow the pump you know for a while i was actually having a hard time connecting with my back but i feel like now i've been on a pretty consistent pattern so i'm actually feeling pretty good when i actually go through the back workout so so pull down hammer machine obviously did one arm rows did c cable rows we did the hypers okay one more exercise that i want to do if i can get on it somewhere's on it in the other room is the pullover machine okay oh yeah you know what maybe deadlifts i might do deadlifts this week since i skipped last week so what i try to do is still alternate deadlifts every the week so we'll go into the other room and do some deadlifts you're gonna pick things off the floor yes because this bodybuilding does it choose a deadlift as an exercise have you ever deadlift in your life yeah not really yeah why does that surprise you well you're training with merlin so i just i know yeah there was many years i wasn't training with him oh okay he doesn't like deadlifts right no all right so three sets here 60 seconds and just right to it right see they're smart you know why they're smart why because they get all bumper plates here ah so it doesn't damage the floor yes nice so guys we're going to deadlift so what i'll do is i'll start with a plate just kind of get a feel for feel for what it's going to feel like oh these are in 20 45 they look what they look heavier than 45 no because they're bumper plates all right so i'm going to use this lower this lower uh hook okay yep remember close to the close to the legs so what i'll do on the deadlifts is only do maximum eight reps oh okay why just it's probably one of the lowest rep exercises that i do yeah just because i don't want to over fatigue i get a really good pump in my in my lats from this but the goal for me is no matter what the age i still want a deadlift because i feel it everywhere not just the lats but through the glutes hems yeah the hips it's a core exercise yeah so don't ask me why i just feel i just like the exercise i mean you remember i always deadlifted even when i was yeah battling coleman you know yeah if i could tell you like one exercise that i i feel like gives me like an overall body pump definitely this one so when you start training you know you do pull-ups you bench press shoulder press like military press and then uh you deadlift your squat what else the basics arm curls yeah pretty much all the body parts and then we work on variations of that as we continue to progress right right all right so eight reps here bro okay good foot stance seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing seeing all right so little ab training so i always talk about especially with back you know you're working so much of the the backside you got to work that front core okay so no matter what the day is um for back day i'm always doing abs on back day whether i did them the day before i had to do them the next day what i'm trying to do is do abs every other workout so like i said if i'm training seven days a week i'm actually hitting abs like every other day the only day i don't do abs on leg day so yesterday was leg day today's back and uh i always said i didn't do back and legs back to back like that but it's just fell this week like that just i traveled this weekend and kind of got off schedule a little bit but so ab exercise is always the same thing so decline bench sit-ups so it's kind of like an incline uh hanging leg raises more straight leg and then rope crunches so three sets each i keep the reps at about 12 to 15 15 uh really just trying to squeeze okay my goal is to always keep a set of abs it's funny because i train nabs now more than ever i wasn't training this in the offseason only for contests like 16 weeks out i actually throw my ab training in there so i still have kind of the same exercise routine although if you go back and watch some of my old videos you can see like back training always start with reverse pull downs we walked into a new gym today so this is coast to coast it's literally nine or ten minutes from my place so once again we talk about exploring las vegas if you guys ever get a chance to come out here for an extended period of time i always suggest that you try the different facilities i mean you see us shooting at the kilo clubs and the fit clubs and you know strength cultures um dragon's lair um you know we have eos we have lvac we have powerhouse gyms um we shot at the atlantis gym at uh oh yeah uh yaks yaks fitness um chris's gym over there they have another one a strip the strip um it's like a strip barbell or something that's new that's out there so that's where everyone was training for the olympia i guess a lot of people because it's right at the end of the strip so we have to still try that the new fit club in henderson oh yeah new tech gym we haven't trained there yet no so so many opportunities to train at different gyms but i want to thank uh obviously coast to coast they're going to be actually sponsoring the j cutler desert classic which is uh next year um alejandro yeah and uh military shout out to all military people actually today is veterans day so we're actually trying to come yeah we're training on veterans day how we chose to do this obviously dave and i you know we live like i said close to here yeah so finish it with a little set of abs and then uh you know we'll wrap it up and you know hopefully you guys get to see a little workout once in a while like i said we haven't done as much workout content like people have been asking for it i've been asking yes this is all breathing guys so really just contracting i learned these from lila brada really yep from a magazine he had crazy abs back in the day still today yep he's in great shape it's pretty amazing to see some of the veterans uh that kind of paved the way for us yeah still training oh yeah you know at full capacity you know the weights lighten up and i think you need to have that adaption ability and i would say like you know we can't say it's as crazy strong forever and someone like me who is able to you know transition and slowly i mean things like i'm still certain strength on but it's all about getting in and getting function and feeling good and being to get out of bed every morning and not being like ah yeah you know i can truly say that that's the case unless i'm sore from a workout i can get out of bed in the morning and i'm not in pain and i never imagined that when my retirement years i used to watch and hear about all these guys especially the gym goers that i trained around and they'd be like yeah when you get older you know you're gonna be in a lot of pain and like damn i gotta look forward to that you train smart all these years well i think the tissue work helped and i think i knew when to back off there was days that i felt like i wasn't turning it up as much as other days and i think that's kind of the key i think you gotta know when to go in and cruise listen to your body and other days you go and kill it so when they talk about full throttle all the time we never wear full throttle all the time yeah i mean if anyone did i feel like their body's paying the price now so longevity is the key guys like you want to be able to and for you younger guys that are watching these videos and saying you know hey i'll never get there dave and i were just talking about starting this video the 50s yeah and uh you know how times progress and like i'm on the good side of that right i mean i'm just like man i achieved all these things i'm still trying like i was in kentucky last weekend heading to virginia this weekend still in crazy demand for you know the guest appearances still influencing you know doing all their social media stuff and trying to educate people the right ways and you know i love that i love that ability to be able to do that and you know i never imagined this would be my life and i'd be able to teach more of the youth and you guys are starting a little later you know guys are starting above 40 or 50 or 60. yep uh the ladies i mean i'm just honored to be able to do that so you know we are trying to uh you know always influence in a positive way yeah and give people the opportunity to uh to showcase their best physiques man if you if you know i have four contests a year you know two in vay uh one in vegas one in virginia two in boston i just got done with the the new englands in boston and you know to get the feedback from people like getting on the stage for the first time so many first timers right uh i have that platform so if you guys are thinking about getting a competition keep me in mind you know we have a lot of a lot of contests there's a lot of opportunities you know just go to npc online of course website and see what's in your region and you know give yourself that four months get a good set of eyes or a coach or whatever and you know put yourself you know challenge yourself man every day is a challenge and that's what like some people live for that stuff i know if my life was simple all the time i wouldn't be as motivated to continue to do this and you know be a part of uh a part of people's lives right i think that's kind of my responsibility now is to showcase uh content to be able to show people like hey i did at the highest level and i'm still doing it you know i think people are surprised when they followed me for a number of years stepped away from the fitness stuff and now they pick back up and they're like damn jay cutler's still out there doing it you know that's pretty awesome that's true so we want to thank everyone uh for following along we want to thank like i said coast to coast here uh coast fitness and uh you know for letting us come over here and uh you know make sure you guys come by and check it out you know that's right you can put the address and stuff on it of course of course um and uh we'll see you guys at the next round so next one for dave and i we're out and another back day abs and uh we're gonna get a little cardio in before we finish up all right no mercy for you no worries for you that game of thrones go sexy on you i kept the script i roll the dice don't fall asleep cause i'm working nights hey you trying to shut me