So little different from October, isn't it? Uh you think? It's cold. Yeah, we miss We both grew up in this. So for you guys that don't know Yes. to all our YouTube people, Angie and I are both East East Coasters migrating to West Coasters. Cuz we got tired of the winter. And I think I actually moved out in So I moved in '99. And you moved in what? '07? Uh no, I moved in 2002 to Vegas. Same year you did. Oh, yeah, that's right. 2002. So we're both around the same time of uh being in Vegas, but I actually moved out in '99. Oh, yeah. still a baby. When How old were you in '99? Pretty young. '99? We don't have to say your age, but still in high school. I I I shouldn't have asked that on YouTube. Uh we're heading We So we're heading to the gym hub to train. Right now, I'll go see Nate over there and hopefully see Jose. And we're going to get uh what are we training today, Angie? Arms. No. We're doing back. I did back already. No, you're You need to do back with me cuz today's back day. I brought straps and everything. Arms is too easy. Arms will be tomorrow. Back and bi's for In case we get out and get crazy tonight, we would need to make sure that we and bi's then if I'm going to get crazy tonight just in case. Yeah, right. Just in case. I don't know. Do you know what the temperature is? What's the temperature right now? Freezing. just before we jump off 37. Not bad. Not bad. There's a little bit of wind chill, so we'll be uh there in a minute. winds. Okay, 28 mph. That's why I have my hood on. Yeah. Hey, man. What's up, brother? Same to you, man. Good to see you. How you doing? I'm good. Good to see you. Hello. How are you? Good to Nate, I owe you a thing of water. I stole one. Hey guys, what's up? Let's go now. Tell me how that felt. Feel good to be back. How long's it been since you did back? Uh it was there at the Fit Expo. Oh, is that when we did back? Did we did we did do back that day? Yeah. Reverse grip pull downs. You see me do these a million times on the machines, whatever else. We're going back to old school now. And I'm using some wrist straps. This is always always always my first exercise. So with this I'm really cutting the pull on the lats. Lock myself down a little bit. Get close. My My body's close to the front of the pad. And pull the lats. Power right through the reps. Remember 12 reps. All right, so the main reason I come to this gym and I love training back is for this piece of equipment. So rows, which we've done a million times on many different piece of equipment. This is actually a flex equipment leverage piece, very old school, hard to find, created by flex equipment, Mark McNally. I'm going to do this as a two arm. You can do this anyway. But we got a couple plates on here. Just going to roll through. What I love about this where the where the motion runs through is basically the exact position where the lats would get that trigger. See how this weight feels, but I don't think it's going to be too heavy, but yeah, not too bad. So I'll do 12 of these. Easy 13. So it's been a minute since Angie and I I have done a YouTube video together. We had trained together at Fit Expo, probably the last time I actually did back. Since this is the first day back from me being down and out with that virus. All right, let's go now. All right, good work. Roll through it now. See your hand positions on there. So middle of the bar. Good. Pull that. Good. This is a great great machine to target those lower lats. Very very hard to find this piece. Super old school. Jose's like, "What are you getting ready to compete again?" I'm like, "Dude, I haven't trained in a week. Is that what it looks like? Or what do you mean? What do I always look like, you think? Massive? Yeah. Pumped up. Good. How'd that feel? Good. Takes your breath out of you, right? It does. All right, Pronated bent over row. Now this is a plate loaded, little different. You guys see me do a million different reverse barbell rows, overhand barbell rows, close grip. We're actually going to use this this closer grip on this. So it's similar to like what you'd use on a seated cable row. And I'm actually going to focus on the mid range of my lats. So kind of that thickness when we talk about that rear double bicep. Get that naughtiness in there. 12 reps. I'm going to wrap it up. You know, safety first, you know. What you'll notice is the bottom I'm getting that crazy stretch for So full range, contract. And yes, I'm out of breath. All right, so question for you. I want you to walk me through this exercise. What is this for? Lat pull down. Who taught you this for the first time, you remember? Denise. Okay, so your trainer. Yes. Mention her name. Give her a shout out here. Denise. Team D Squad. Team D Squad. We're training out with her. I've been working out with her since I was a kid. Okay. So she's She's coached you through how many competitions, you think? More than 12. I did a bunch of figure competitions and bikini didn't Bikini didn't exist. Yeah, you did figure. 2007. Okay, 2007 your first. And uh I mean, been nationally level. Competed at the USAs, right? Nationals. And uh Florida. Okay. So you did figure and bikini. They've seen your bikini uh kind of build up the last, you know, few years ago, but you know, get ready. We're trying to get you back. Okay, so All right, good motion. So good stretch on the lats. This is kind of to mimic a pull over if you guys that didn't know. Just get that good distance from the cable apparatus. Yeah, just get a good stretch. And uh let's go. Here you go. Pull straight through it. Good. You want to take the triceps out of the movement. That's the key, guys. All right, so a little straighter arms. Good. Weight can't be too too heavy. That's the key. That's That's 50 lb that she's doing right now. Yeah, let's go. Push it. Yeah, get that good stretch. Awesome. I'm going to roll right in and do my set, so All right, so I'm going to show you guys what weight Let's see what weight I put on there, Ange. All right, so let's go with uh let's go with a 100. I'm doing double the weight you did. No, this is this So good stretch, okay? We're going to pull these lats. Okay? Pull the lats through. Right through. Right. You notice I pop the chest up. Get that stretch. Oh, get that arm straight. Really get that lat pull. I don't even know how many reps that was, but I don't care. Basically the pull over, but with a cable. It's kind of like a rope extension to really pull the lats, okay? So what we're going to do is get a dis- little distance from the machine. Okay, we want to stand back a little bit. Really get that stretch. The arms have to stay somewhat straight, not exactly straight, but we don't want to bring the triceps in especially as we go a little heavier and we're going to come through the body and as we come down the chest is going to come up okay create the arch get that nice stretch. I'm at about 110 lb so watch my distance. Okay, nice stretch. Get the get a little bit of pull on the lap. And through the body. See how the arms stay pretty straight. Pop that chest. I'm aiming for 12 reps, but sometimes more sometimes less as long as we get the job done. All right, little dumbbell. Dumbbell curls. So do a couple warm-up sets and then we'll go right into like three heavy sets. I'll probably do six sets of biceps today. So I'll do those and I'm going to do this machine here. I believe it's a strive which is now prime just that super old school that's who owned it before prime did. I think. All right, I'm going to do 35s to kind of start this thing. So doing something little bit out of the box today we're doing biceps with back. For you guys that do that push pull thing. There you go. We're going to do a a pull day. Get the blood in there. So cambered bar curls. I'm going to start with a 70. Get that curl pretty standard. Not super strict obviously. Just really get that squeeze. Get that good burn. How that look? Okay. Um I want to take the shoulders out. I guess it kind of started as I was a lot bigger. But for me I mean I feel them that way. So I don't know what else to tell anyone that's watching like what's correct what's not. Listen, it's not a strict curl. Strict curl is a back against a like a position and strict curling, but No, I just I'll be honest. I mean people that train with me over the years most people had stronger biceps. Now of course now I tore the upper I tore the lower here partial. So I think there's some weakness there. But for some reason I always talked about this the reason I train buys and tries together like this is an off day I'm doing something different today is I didn't get a lot of pump in my biceps until I started training triceps first then biceps. I got a pretty decent pump today to be honest. Maybe because I was you know pulling just anything you do different sometimes is going to cause uh any kind of feeling I I feel like uh but you know if I was training triceps first my biceps would be crazy pumped the first set. Uh not to say that they did not, but uh just the way I felt it. So I just do different things. Uh it's a theory of mine. Um if you want to try it otherwise uh stick to the routine uh you're on and keep having small arms. Spider curls. Let's go now. So position on the incline bench. Good. That hold up there good. So just trying to get that isolation of the biceps. Good good good good good. All right, so spider curls with dumbbells. Now this is a great isolation movement. I talked a lot about this in my 2009 comeback. Now since I have a tendency to swing a lot with my movements this allows me to be a little more strict. Uh chest down on the incline bench and it's all biceps taking the shoulders out of it. It's starting to feel uh still going to push through a couple. Uh couple house. Good burn. Good isolation. Used to be 22-in arms. All right, so we're wrapping it up here at uh Jim Hub for a little bit of back and biceps like I said a little bit out of the routine today which uh threw that on me. She's like let's do biceps. Yeah. Man, I did that back back when I started training 91 that was the first program I actually did back and biceps, chest and triceps, quads and hamstrings and then uh shoulders and traps. It's like everyone's basic routine I feel like and uh it's good to be back. Good to be back in Boston. See Nathan, Jose over here. They're over here training. Doing their thing. Yeah. First video back in a minute uh with kind of the the training I wanted to include Angie in this just so I know a lot of you guys watch these videos or make your spouses or uh significant others watch it because I hear it at the expos and I hear I watch your videos and they want to see more of what the female side does and I had one time Angie told me that she can't train with me because I train like a bodybuilder. But man, it's all a bodybuilding routine. You know, the simplistic routines are the ones that work the best and like I said there's no better education than experience and I feel like like I've done every routine there is. I've done every rep range. Um I've gone heavy I've gone moderate I've gone light. I've done everything possible you know nutrition going all over the place. You know, change your body from the time you're a teenager to the time where I quit at 40 years old being competitive and still now you know into my 50s now trying to do something that not many men can do and that's to stay in tip-top shape uh which you know, requires a crazy diet um a crazy workout routine and obviously great sleep patterns and I think a lot of us um battle that as we um deal with everyday stress of whatever it is family business day-to-day and I think uh these videos are helping a lot of people um manage time okay because time is everything. Guys, thank you so much for following along the videos and uh for Angie and myself we're out. Let me just have her close it too. You going to turn around? So so uh guys thank you so so much and uh we'll see you back at the next episode. No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones go Cersei on you. I kicked the script. I rolled the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights, hey.