as I'm going to use a little bit of energy free workout today. Just half a scoop. So, I wanted to do since I had such great success with the vlogging, I said, "You know what? I'll do another one because you guys liked it." But today is bad day. So, as you guys know, it's probably my first or second favorite day. It's the hardest training days of my routine, which some of you may watch this and be like, "Ah, man. He doesn't train that hard anymore." But to be honest, it's uh it's still my favorite day. So, I just started using creatine a little bit. You know, I stopped for a while. I cycled off of it just to see if my body had a difference. And that's usually like with any supplements, I think it's good to kind of cycle things and maybe just replace them with something else. So, I'm taking a little bit of little bit of pump, a little bit of uh like uh my propel pre-workout, which is a little pump and um caffeine. I wanted to mix it at the gym so you guys could see this. Usually, I mix at home, but I was on a phone call, so I didn't actually film on the way to uh way to the gym this morning. But it's probably like a 10-minute drive for me, the drive over here. So, once again, I'm at the Kilo Club. So, what we'll start with is pretty standard. You guys see me this, so I may not talk through a lot of the video, but uh reverse grip pull downs. We'll do some wide grip pull downs. Um we'll do some rows, pretty much everything that's uh to you've seen kind of over the years with the videos. But I head to Ohio uh tomorrow morning, so I have that to look forward to. pretty busy weekend. So, I'm trying to wrap up uh getting all the loose ends tied up since I'm going to be gone for like five four days, 5 days. So, I want to make sure that uh everything is squared away before I leave. Like I said, watching this video, you guys sometimes are going through, you know, certain cycles of uh of life, of training, of business. I think everyone tries to, you know, follow some routines maybe online that might give some some motivation or give some different insight to uh to maybe what they're doing on a daily basis. But, you know, I love doing these videos because I look at the comments after and I'm like, man, you know, it really makes a difference when I when I do these kind of videos. And when I do them kind of more face to face, which is the vlogging style, I think people tend to like it um a little better just because it's a little more organic. I think that's what people look for today is a lot of organic content. And you know, me as a guy that's just lifting weights now for for fun. It's not really a a job anymore. I think it gives the opportunity now to uh to kind of just show my side of like balancing, you know, that it's not a full-time thing for me. And, you know, I still struggle with eating every day and and uh you know, going through the workouts. Although I'm super motivated to work out, it's still the best part of my day. All right. So, like I said, it's back day here in a nice quiet gym so you guys can see. >> Like I said, I'm going to start with some pull downs reverse, but I won't uh I won't show too much. Um I won't talk too much. I mean, so Yeah. >> All right. So, You see me kind of squeezing. I know I use a lot of motion. Sometimes I'll kind of let the weight pull my lats. It's really important for me and everyone has a different style how they train, but for me, I'm just really trying to get like hit, you know, the fast twitch muscle fibers and also slow twitch. So, you'll see me in a couple reps. I come down and I'm actually squeezing my lats. When I love this exercise, I've talked about this a million times. Front double bicep, the lats come out. This exercise, I really feel it. Not only the thickness like front to back, but I feel it really kind of pull that vtaper. It's like you can do a single arm, you can do double arm, but and also use, yes, the J Cutler signature strap. So use those, you know, just use my my fingers as hooks. So when you watch me actually do the reps, you can kind of see those. >> Just makes it easier. >> What's the goal? mid February. >> So, three sets total >> plus two feel sets. So, five sets first exercise and uh we're rocking. That's what's great about being in a quiet gym. All right, guys. So, exercise number two, which is lately in my routine, I've been putting this in quite a bit. Now, I always talk about the pullover. What I love about this, this is the hammer strength pullover machine here. So, I'm actually using my elbows. So, you know, you have these pads here that actually the elbows go on. So, what I'm trying to do is just really try to pull and use the lats without using, you know, the hands or anything else. You're just using basically the elbows. And it's just like when we get on stage and we do our back post and pull the Christmas tree for the lad spreads and back double. Uh really just trying to accentuate squeezing. But remember once again that position coming up getting that crazy stretch. It's really good uh for you know those fibers really kind of a faster motion. You know squeeze down and then of course get that the seats kind of lower just a little bit. Some people put a seat belt on, but for me, it's just kind of roll through it. Excuse me. So, my right elbow is kind of hands just kind of loose here. Good stretch. Squeeze. Squeeze right there without squeezing the abs. Just squeeze the lats. It's kind of funny because I feel kind of like a little [\h__\h] cuz my my feet kind of hang down when I do this. But, you know, the seat's so high just to be able to get lock, you know, locked in and get that pull on the lats. But, I love this exercise, especially this machine. There's a ton of different pullovers, selectorized pieces. you know, you guys with your with your home training or kind of limited gyms, you know, you have your equipment that you don't necessarily have. So, you got to do dumbbells or use a bar or whatever else. But this machine, if you ever get a chance to do as a hammer strength pullover, I love it. I use it pretty much every back workout here. But, uh, I'll do three sets. The weight is two plates on each side. So, four total plates. Just feels good to get that good stretch. and then we'll move over our toe a wide grip pull down. All right, wide grip pull down. Third exercise in the routine today. So, what I'm going to do is just really once again not worry about control as much. Just going to knock out 10 or 12 reps. Get that good contraction. Really try to widen up lats. I always tell everyone if you're trying to build the widest lats, not necessarily the thickness from front to back, but width. The pull-ups, wide grip, something is always the best thing to do. What I love about this machine is I can lock myself in. I feel like it's perfect position. Little wider grip on the handles. too slow. 11 reps. So, I'll do a few of these. Just working that contraction. So, good pump already. Uh then we'll work some more thickness exercises, some rows, and then uh kind of roll with it. Easy work. All right, so we're talking about raw. Everything is raw. So we're going to do this seated cable row. I'm just going to let this thing run. So hopefully you guys don't mind a little bit of the action. So I'm looking at So it says 70, but this is more of a uh clock this so it actually follows me a little bit. Okay. So, that's the cool thing about the Osmo. It actually tracks you. So this probably here. I like the two leg stretch. Oh man. Get that squeeze. So remember 45 60 seconds Okay. felt pretty heavy. So sometimes I lie, sometimes I don't have to wait. So today was pretty hectic. We're trying to do the do the remodel on the house right now. So I had to meet with the designer. It took about 3 hours. Can't wait to show you guys that progress. And then uh I'm going to head to the office after this. ship a few uh few items and then uh head to uh head to Columbus tomorrow, which I'll be doing a lot of footage. I don't know where where I'm going to post it, but what platform I'm going to put it on, but we'll keep you guys in the loop. All right, one more set. All right, so I'm going to do a what they call a freedom rack. I You know, it's not just trying to get pick action. Speed, speed, speed, >> guys. So, made it to the office and going to ship a few items here. It's candled. So, I have I go straight from the gym to the to my uh you can see the podcast studio behind me here. You guys always wondering if my house kind of has the same uh same look as my house, but I'm going to have a little bit of beef and beef and sweet potatoes mega fit. And uh all in all, a good workout. I didn't do a wrap-up on it, but I'm kind of low on battery, so I'm probably going to eat a little bit and then uh I'll just kind of get a little bit of me maybe doing the orders. Then we'll uh head home. I got to pack. Get the crocod fly to Ohio. So, usually I come here and do the memo memo, some of the merch stuff. We shoot a podcast. Um, but this gets me out of the house a little bit to kind of get a little more locked in and if I have kind of stuff I need to work on. This is kind of where I spend some time. So, I honestly get a little stressed when I have to travel. So, today's been pretty hectic, honestly. All right, guys. This camera may die, so let me just have it track me a little bit. All right. So, I'm just gonna ship a few things. So, I I do this pretty much on a daily, which people are like, "Why do you still do this because I love it." Um, so I don't know if this thing's actually gonna track me enough, but um, just to show you guys a little bit that I'm still a little hands-on no matter what my schedule is. And like I'll come home from the trip and obviously I'll have, you know, I can have anywhere between, you know, I would say, you know, five orders to 20 orders to 100 orders depending on what we have for promos going on. But you can see I have a whole warehouse full of stuff here, guys. So, and luckily I have a mic so I can still pockets. Scale Monkey shorts, 2XL, Scale Monkey gym bag, and then I'm going to let this thing run until I till it either thing dies or hopefully maybe that dies or I three extra large, which I know I got a ton of those. But and I do sign a lot of the items, which is kind of nice. People do actually like that. But I I have big sizes. So I do have certain shirts. You guys have seen this a million times, but you know the pig heads. That's kind of joke we have going. But I do depending on, you know, what people request. I try to drop what is affordable. I I do nothing crazy crazy expensive. I think the most expensive thing is have is the sweatshirts. So, this is a gym bag. I'm going to sign the actual top. So, this has a strap on it. This is a Sw gym bag, right? You can see the swole monkey on it. Sweet. You can see it right there. And then I signed I signed the top right there. Hopefully, you guys can see that in there. Put the the other two items in over the top. And then uh a free sample of of the Prevail the Strong pre-workout. So this is going to Samuel. He's in Oregon. So thank you so much Samuel for the order. Hopefully you get to see this on YouTube, which normally they'll be like, "Hey, I saw my my package being shipped, you know." So this is a small pig medium Slow pig t large. So these are some nice slow pig shirts. You guys see how it goes here. So I'll try to wrap up in uh some of Yeah, I'll just show uh let me just show another order because this is a postage. So, this is this is one of my favorite covers of all time, which I have to move the camera cuz now it's on my uh I don't know what that why it just did that. So, edit that maybe. So, this is going to be the flex poster. Sorry, I know I'm cut off, guys. So, this poster right here, let's see if there's any. So, sometimes if there's notes in there, you can actually put your name in there. Uh, no name. So, what I'll usually do is I'll just sign it, but I'll put like train hard, don't quit. This is hopefully going to go in someone's office or home gym or so. There it is. I'll roll that bad boy up and I'll be shipping it myself. But this is kind of what I I just wanted to show a little bit. You can see a lot of the the shop going on. Let me just show a little bit of the uh so podcast studio. Got a bunch of the Cutler hats here. So we do product placement when we do the podcast. This is a cutout I had. And uh you know we have a fit club and Pacific West for a sponsorship. Bunch of the Young LA clothes here. You guys can see what I have going on. Kind of messy right now, but it's okay. I have 12% left on my battery. So hopefully I can kind of wrap this thing up when I get home and show you guys what me and Angie have going on. If I can include that in there, but I just don't want to totally kill this thing. So stay tuned. I just got home feeding the dogs. Come on, Nyx. Come eat your food. Capone's eating his. How's that? Pretty good, huh? Come on. You going to eat your food? You can eat your food. He's eating his like crazy. Come on. Come on, maniac. She wants to of course go near his. >> And yes, guys, I'm going to surprise you. Look what I got here. If my camera will work right in burger. What do you think, Ang? >> I'm excited. >> Huh? >> All right, guys. So, I'm probably going to sign off for for this vlog. I'm going to send it over, have it edited. Hopefully, we'll have it up just to kind of show uh my my back workout just cuz I wanted to show you guys what was happening before I left this Arnold. But, appreciate you guys following along.