 noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise noise do since I had such great success with the vlogging I said you know what I'll do another one because you guys liked it but today is back day so as you guys know it's probably my first or second favorite day the hardest training days of my routine which some of you may watch this and be like oh man he doesn't train that hard anymore but to be honest it's uh it's still my favorite day so I just started using creatine a little bit you know I stopped for a while I titled off it just to see if my body had a difference and that's usually like with any supplements I think it's good to kind of cycle things and maybe just replace them with something else so I'm taking a little bit of a little bit of pump a little bit of uh like uh my probably help me work out which is a little pump and um caffeine I wanted to mix it up the gym so you guys can see this usually I mix at home but I was on a phone call so I didn't actually film on the way to uh way to the gym this morning but it's probably like a 10 minute drive for me to drive over here so once again I'm at Tequila Club so what we'll start with is pretty standard you guys see this so I may not talk through a lot of the video but uh reverse grip pulldowns we'll do some wide grip pulldowns um we'll do some rows pretty much everything that's uh to you've seen kind of over the years with the videos but I head to Ohio uh tomorrow morning so I have that to look forward to a pretty busy weekend so I'm trying to wrap up uh getting all the loose ends tied up since I'm gonna be gone for like five four days five days so I want to make sure that uh everything is squared away before I leave like I said watching this video you guys sometimes are going through you know certain cycles of uh of life of training of business I think everyone tries to you know follow some routines maybe online that might give some some motivation or give some different insight to uh to maybe what they're doing on a daily basis but you know I love doing these videos because I look at the comments after and I'm like man you know it really makes a difference when I when I do these kind of videos and when I do them kind of more face-to-face which is the vlogging style I think people tend to like it um a little better just because it's a little more organic I think that's what people look for today is a lot of organic content you know me as a guy that's just lifting weights now for for fun it's not really a job anymore I think it gives the opportunity now to uh to kind of just show my side of like balancing you know that it's not a full-time thing for me and you know I still struggle with eating every day and and uh you know going through the workouts although I'm super motivated to work out it's still the best part of my day all right so like I said it's back day here in a nice quiet gym so you guys can see like I said I'm gonna start with some pull downs reverse but I won't uh I won't show too much um I won't talk too much I mean so um um year You see me kind of squeezing? I know I use a lot of motion sometimes. I'll kind of let the weight pull my lats. It's really important for me. And everyone has a different style, how they train. But for me, I'm just really trying to get, like, hit, you know, the fast twitch muscle fibers and also the slow twitch. So you'll see me in a couple reps. I come down, and I'm actually squeezing my lats. When I love this exercise, I've talked about this a million times, front double bicep. The lats come out. So this exercise, I really feel it. Not only the thickness, like front to back, but I feel it really kind of pull that V taper. I think you can do a single arm, you can do a double arm. But I also use, yes, the J Cutler signature strap. So use those, you know, just use my fingers as hooks. So when you watch me actually do the reps, you can kind of see those. Just makes it easier. Just grab. so three sets total plus two field sets so five sets first exercise and now we're rocking it it's great about being in a quiet gym hi guys so exercise number two which is lately in my routine I've been putting this in quite a bit now I always talk about the pullover what I love about this this is the hammer swing pullover you're seeing here so I'm actually using my elbow so you know you have these that actually the elbows go on so what I'm trying to do is just really try to pull and use the lats without using you know the hands or anything else you're just using basically the elbows and it's just like when we get on stage and we do our back pose and pull the Christmas tree for the last present back double really just trying to accentuate squeezing but remember once again that position coming up getting that crazy stretch it's really good for you know those fibers really kind of a faster motion you know squeeze down and then of course the that the seats kind of going on this little bit some people would a seat belt on but for me it's just kind of all through it so remember it elbows kind of hands just kind of loose here and then I'm going to start squeeze some wreath right there without squeezing the abs just squeezing the lats alright we'll see my feet kind of hang down when I do this but you know the seat's so high just to be able to get locked in and get that hole in the lats but I love this exercise especially this machine there's a ton of different pullovers selectorized pieces you know you guys with your with your home training or kind of limited gyms you know you have your equipment that you don't necessarily have so you got to do dumbbells or use a bar whatever else but this machine if you ever do a chance to use a hammer string pullover I love it I use it pretty much every back workout here but I'll do three sets it's the weight is two plates on each side so four total plates this feels good to get that good stretch and then we'll move over to a wide grip pull down alright wide grip pull down third exercise in the routine today so what I'm going to do is just really once again not worry about control as much just going to knock out 10 or 12 reps get that good contraction really try to widen up lats I always tell everyone if you're trying to build the widest lats not necessarily the thickness from front to back but with the pull-ups wide grip something is always the best thing to do what I love about this machine is I'm going to lock myself in it's got a tackle here in a piece but I'll lock myself in I feel like it's in a particular position a little wider grip on the handle that's something that's something that's something that's something that's something that's just working that contraction so good pump already work more thickness exercises some rows and then kind of roll with it easy work so we're talking about raw everything is raw so we're gonna do this seated cable row I'm just gonna let this thing run so hopefully you guys don't mind so it says 70 but this is more of a practice and so it actually follows me a little bit okay so that's the cool thing about the odds is that it actually attracts you so this is probably about 140 or so I'm gonna use my strap let me put it in basically do the motion here I like the two one one yeah I'll break it get a stretch get a stretch get a stretch get a stretch that squeeze I'm going to wait about 60 seconds. I'm going to wait. Sometimes I don't have to wait. So today was pretty hectic. We're trying to do the remodel in the house right now. So I had to meet with the designer. It took about three hours. Can't wait to show you guys that progress. And then I'm going to head to the office after this. A few items. And then I'll head to Columbus tomorrow. Which I'll be doing a lot of footage. I don't know where I'm going to post it. But I don't know what platform I'm going to put it on. But I'll keep you guys in the loop. Alright, one more set. Alright, so I'm going to do a what they call a freedom rack. You could use this year. You could use this year. You could use this year. You could use this year. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm just trying to get my connection. Speed, speed, speed. Guys, so I made it to the office. And I'm going to ship a few items here. I'm going to have a little bit of beef and sweet potatoes. And all in all, a good workout. I didn't do a wrap-up on it, but I'm kind of low on battery. So I'm probably going to eat a little bit and then I'll just kind of get a little bit of meat, maybe doing the orders. And then we'll head home. I'm going to pack. Get the Crocodone. Fly to Ohio. So usually I come here and do the memo VO, some of the merch stuff. We shoot a podcast. But this gets me out of the house a little bit to kind of get a little more locked in. And if I have the kind of stuff I need to work on, this is kind of where I spend some time. So I honestly get a little stressed when I have to travel. So today's been pretty hectic, honestly. All right, guys, this camera may die. So let me just have it track me a little bit. All right, so I'm just going to ship a few things. So I do this pretty much on a daily, which people are like, why do you still do this? Because I love it. So I don't know if this thing is actually going to track me enough. But just to show you guys a little bit that I'm still a little hands-on no matter what my schedule is. Like I'll come home from the trip and obviously I'll have, you know, I don't have anywhere between, you know, I would say, you know, five orders to 20 orders to 100 orders, depending on what we have for promos going on. But you can see I have a whole warehouse full of stuff here, guys. So. And what do they have them, I don't know, so I can still pocket them. I'm not feeling. It's the only one who's yours. It's the XO. So a monkey gym bag. And then I'm going to let this thing run until I feel it. Either thing dies or hopefully they get back, guys. Or, yeah, I think the XO lives, which I know I got a ton of those. But, and I do sign a lot of the items, which is kind of nice. People do actually like that. I have big sizes, so I do have certain shirts. You guys have seen this a million times, but, you know, the pig head of these. This is kind of the joke we have going. But I do, depending on, you know, what people request, I try to drop what is affordable. I do nothing crazy, crazy, crazy expensive. But I think the most expensive thing is how this is a sweatshirt. But this is a gym bag. And they'll sign the actual top. So this has a strap on it. This is a Swole Monkey gym bag, right? You can see the Swole Monkey on it. Swole Monkey. You can see it right there. And then I signed, I signed the top right there. Hopefully you guys can see that. This in there. I'm going to put the other two items in over the top. And then a free sample of the Previata Strong pre-workout. This is going to Samuel. He's in Oregon. So, thank you so much, Samuel, for the order. Hopefully you get to see this on YouTube. Which normally they'll be like, Hey, I saw my package being shipped, you know. So this is a Swole Pig medium. And a Swole Pig Keoglar. So this is a Swole Pig. So you guys see how it goes here. So I'll try to wrap up. And, uh, I'll see. We have to show, uh, we just show another order. This is a poster. So this is, this is one of my favorite covers of all time, which I have to move the camera because now it's on my, uh, I don't know what that, why I just did that. So edit that, maybe. So this is going to be the Flex poster. Sorry, I'm not cut off, guys. So this poster right here, let's see if there's any. So sometimes if there's notes in there, you can actually put your name in there. Uh, no name. So what I'll usually do is I'll just sign it, but I'll put like train hard. Don't quit. This is hopefully going to go in someone's office or home gym or so there it is. I'll roll that bad boy up and I'll be shipping it myself. But this is kind of what I just wanted to show a little bit. You can see a lot of the the shop going on. Let me just show a little bit of the, uh, so podcast studio. Got a bunch of the Cutler hats here. So we do product placement when we do the podcast. This is a cutout I had. And, uh, you know, we have a Fit Club in Pacific West for our sponsorship. Bunch of the Young LA clothes here. You guys can see what I have going on kind of messy right now, but it's okay. I have 12% left on my battery. So hopefully I can kind of wrap this thing up when I get home and show you guys what me and Angie have going on. I don't know if I can include that in there, but I just don't want to totally kill this thing. So stay tuned. I just got home feeding the dogs. Come on, Nick. Come eat your food. Capone's eating his. How's that? Pretty good, huh? Come on, you gonna eat your food? You can eat your food. He's eating his like crazy. Come on. Come on there, maniac. Yeah. Yeah. She wants to, of course, go near his. And yes, guys, I'm going to surprise you. Look what I got here. If the camera will work right. In-N-Out Burger. What do you think, Ang? I'm excited. Huh? I'm excited. All right, guys, so I'm probably going to sign off for this vlog. I'm going to send it over, have it edited, and hopefully we'll have it up just to kind of show my, my back workout just because I wanted to show you guys what was happening before I left this Arnold, but appreciate you guys following along. year's podcast.