 N-sangitin, undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes undes little a little look-see on what the gym looks like today and the changes they've made so wow that really bring you back some memories oh so they actually changed the parking lots because all this was gated the entire parking lot was gated so i guess they got half of it back for people to park and but there's still a section all the way in the back where it's gated so people can keep training outside a little bit so i'm gonna go inside and see what's going on in there it is the iconic uh gold's gym mecca guy in front of the entrance so people can come and take some pictures a lot of tourists will do that so that tells you you're in venice at the mecca all right so the new upgraded pro shop looks pretty cool this this place used to be really small back in the day but it still sold a ton of merchandise it's actually like really nice and much better layout so some supplements tons of clothing of course everyone comes here want to get something from venice you know when they come from other countries and all that so looks cool to have something from the mecca this is a brand new sitting area they actually built kind of reminds me of my store in venice where people can just sit down and chill after their workout i don't see any microwave they used to have a microwave here for people only look what's over here i know this is like the locker scale some table to eat oh yeah there's a microwave over there at the end of the locker so they still have it that's great you gotta get the food in after training looks pretty busy i'm gonna try to film to find the jeff he's the uh general manager he used to work at the gold's gym in pasadena back in the day with the transfer in here he was here when i was still training here with eric and all that stuff that's the second room is the north side very cool right here in that corner where you see that metal sort of thing used to be the the posing room back in the day it wasn't very big but it kind of just stood right here in that corner they actually moved it upstairs a while later it's the third room with all the cardio club club All the great pictures on the wall. This picture of me and Jay. That was took by Kevin Horton in 2009. A few weeks before the historic return of the Olympia when he got his title back. He has a great time. These are all the greats from all the years on the wall. The pictures are probably what really gives this place a very unique flair compared to other gyms. Because it's like history on the walls. Yeah. Very cool. So these right here are all the past NPC USA and NPC National champions. Very cool. I think he stopped updated after a certain point. I'm going to take a look outside. So this is, people can actually train outside in the front and in the back of the gym. And there's Michael Horton. That's pretty cool. All covered up. Because they've been using the outside since the quarantine, I think it gives the gym a lot more space for people to train. I'm going to go check out the front. Of course, a ton of cardio. That's great because they really need it here. It gets really busy at times. So this is a little pathway to go from the third room to the front. And this over here, you can see it now, but it used to be like a posing room or aerobic or things like that. They actually closed it. Now. Yeah, so this is the part where they actually kept the gated section. But this whole parking lot was like this before. Hey! Enrico. Enrico McLinten, legend. How are you, man? How's it going, buddy? Good seeing you, man. Everything good? Love you, buddy. I'm going to meet with Dr. Ren at 1. So G's like, oh, go buy this gym and just see what it looks like now. So we're here just to kind of give a little report. Everything good? I'm good, man. Yeah. I see Flex all the time. Yeah, all the time. All the time. Yeah, all the time. It reminds me of you and Chris. Are you in Vegas? Yeah, I'm in Vegas, yeah. Where do you live? Centennial Hill. Do you know where that is? Yeah. You know who lives out there? Gunner, Gunner, Olivia. No. You know Gunner, Olivia? No. Olivia, he's a premier, he's a martial artist guy. Oh, Gunner, Olivier, Gruner. Oh, I don't know. I see Sergio all the time, too. Yeah. What about Danny? Yeah, Danny, she shouts back. But, I don't know. I don't know. I see Sergio all the time, too. Yeah. I see Sergio all the time, too. So Sergio. What about Danny? Yeah, Danny, she shouts back. But, I don't see him that often. I don't know if he comes back. He doesn't keep training people. I think he kind of just floats between the two. Yeah. What about Craig Titus? No one has seen him in a while. He's messing with you, man. I don't know if it's a good question. He's messing with you. He's still there in the tail? I saw Chris last weekend. It was the Las Vegas Classic. Yeah, he was there. Chris was there, Flex, Dexter. I saw Dexter was there. He has his own place there from here. I think he's in San Diego, if I'm right. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Flex with him, but he does well. He does, yeah? I know he's doing that Olympia review and everything. He's wearing suits all the time. All the time. Congratulations on your marriage, Sergio. I saw that. Yeah. You get a lot of social media for that. You can keep up with your friends, you know? I love it. That's awesome. What is that? All right, buddy. I'm going to go to work. Good to see you, buddy. Always. Always. Yeah, it's always good to see Rico. When I first moved here in 93, he was like one of the big guys training with Flex and Chris Cormier and Paul Dillet and with Charles Klass. So, it was really cool when I came here in 93 and you would see all these guys following each other at the gym and killing it and stuff. It was awesome. I think David Young also was training with these guys. It was like a big group, like five or six people. Yeah. Sorry for a finger. Doing nice, dang, dang, dang, dang, dang, dang, dang, dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang dang Bye.