Hey babe, don't forget we got to get ready in 2 hours for that event. Okay, I got so much to do. How am I ever going to get this done? Jay, so do we need to cancel? What are you wearing? It's game night. Piggy. Yeah. We're back. We are back. We're We're still here even though the craziness del spot. So, I was telling um last time I was doing a a video with Jay, we were just he was just excited that we still had a place to train uh you know, with Sylvio and stuff and I said the very last video I shot with you guys, the very same night we actually trained and filmed that video, they actually shut down your gym. So, that's it. Yeah, that that kind of sucked. I was really hoping that um we get a little bit more time. I was hoping we have more time because, you know, it's not a very used, you know, there's not many people ever in there, you know, maybe at the most. There's ever like five people in there. So, I thought maybe it would skate by, but like literally. So, I mean, at least at least we got that workout in and it wasn't, you know, we got the chance to do that. So, yeah. So, uh how did you know they closed the gym? They sent an email or what? Yeah, this building is really really good about keeping everybody informed by email of anything and everything that's going on. Okay. Uh so you know they informed me and I was like oh well there goes that. So uh um I didn't really have anything left any place to train. No more goals. No more that. So uh I guess I'll tell you a little bit more about how I've been getting by. So you've been you've been you headed to Bakersfield which is where your girl is. Yeah. My girl is in Bakersfield. They call the Bakersfield bombshell. She doesn't like it. She doesn't like that name because she doesn't we're gonna we're going to get her out of Bakersfield. Get her to LA where she belongs. But, uh, Lonnie Teper gave her that name. She's Mr. Mr. He loves to give people a nickname. Uh, so I headed over there and, um, the funny thing is is that we actually had, um, a gym there to train in, but we thought so. Anyway, uh, that was taking, you know, it was kind of like a private gym and, uh, we were supposed to be able to join just monthto month. So, I was like, "Oh, perfect. You know, we can train there." Uh, and then at the last minute, we find out they're not accepting any new members. regardless because of what's going on. So, that was the end of that. So, now I've been limited to basically a set of dumbbells up to 30 lbs. Uh, a set of bands, and the bands are actually really like light. They're like not even like heavy resistance. Uh, and then I have a curling bar with a few plates. So, I don't even have a bench. We've been, you know, making we've been using like a a bench that goes like a table to pretty much as a bench. Uh, so it's been really really limited. But the truth of the matter is is that um I've just been really uh uh creative with the workouts and uh doing the best that I can to just keep my body moving and just keep a you know the blood flowing and uh keep my sanity while this is all going. I know. Yeah. Especially that. Yeah. So um yeah, but uh it is what it is. Everybody's in everybody's in a rough situation. And for those of you out there who still have access to gyms, you are very lucky and appreciate it. Yeah. And if you don't have access to gym, still make the best of it. Don't sit on your butt and just eat bon bonss and eat bon bonss watching TV, watching Netflix. Yeah. So, I'm sure you've been flooded with questions um from all over, you know, people asking you how they can get through this, you know, difficult time and everything. So, uh, we just you came back over here to get your mails and just kind of check on the apartment on the condo and stuff. So, uh, we got together today and I'm sure, uh, um, you'll be glad to pass along some of those questions, right? Yeah. I mean, well, actually, I mean, the first question really, um, really just speaks to exactly what I was just talking about, which is, um, you know, what's the best way to prevent muscle loss with only limited workout equipment such as some dumbbells and resistance bands? um is in is it is it inevitable uh that there's going to be no hypertrophy happening at this time if it's it's for an extended period. Um, and and like I said, I mean, you can really, and I've been I've actually been putting out some workouts, um, on Allmax Nutrition, uh, about different uh, you know, training with just your body weight, uh, training with bands, training with dumbbells, training with a medicine ball, uh, training with kettle bells, cuz these are the the items that I figure most people who are fitness oriented have in their house or can easily or can easily get, you know, even if you know, if you order it, sometimes it takes a couple weeks to get it. Um, maybe some sporting goods stores still have it. Um, I think that, you know, I think it's very very difficult with really limited equipment, especially if the resistance uh is much less than you're used to to continue to gain new muscle tissue. if we're talking specifically about that. Uh but there's no reason why there has to be any muscle loss. Uh because as long as you're still activating the muscle, uh as long as it's still contracting, stretching, moving through its range of motion, there's blood and nutrients getting into the muscle, there's no reason why it will atrophy. Uh, basically the only way that a muscle is going to really atrophy is if you literally do not move it for a couple of weeks. Uh, and hopefully that's not what you guys are doing. So, it's hard for me to give you I can't just give you specific workouts right now. Although, I'm going to do some demonstrations, have my girlfriend do some demonstrations of of plyometric movements, which I think are fantastic at this period of time because you only need body weight. Um, but what I can say is is that if you don't have a lot of resistance and you have, you know, dumbbells, bands, whatever, or body weight, the best thing to do is circuits. I feel circuits work really, really well where you move from one exercise to the next uh with no rest in between and maybe string together, you know, five exercises or even up to 10 exercises in a row. Uh, and you can do it. I think a great way to do it is doing something like an upper body movement, lower body movement, ab movement, then back to upper body, lower body, ab, and then, you know, like cover. Maybe the first upper body movement is a chest movement. Say it's push-ups. You go from push-ups to maybe a plyometric type movement for the legs. Then you drop down to the ground. You do some leg lifts. Then you can maybe even throw in some type of a cardiovascular type movement that raises the heart rate like jumping jacks, jump rope, running in place, running stairs, that kind of thing. Uh, and then go back and maybe do a back movement. Maybe you have a pull-up bar. Maybe if you have bands or dumbbells, you could do rows. Uh, and then you can go into like lunges, whether it be body weight or with resistance, and then back to an ab an abdominal. And if you move through like this, the the great benefit of this is that not only will it stimulate the muscles, but it'll also stimulate the cardiovascular system. It'll burn a lot of calories. So, you actually may find yourself getting leaner, you know, at the you know, with workouts like that. Uh, another thing that you can do is also just a lot of super setting. You know, you could do you could pick two two body parts, uh, you know, chest and back and go back in between dips and pull-ups, uh, dips and push-ups. I mean dips and u you know a different type of pull-up maybe with a different grip underhand overhand uh you know you have feet elevated push-ups you have regular push-ups you could do plyometric push-ups or clap push-ups so there's a lot of options available uh and as long as you um are a little bit creative uh and and you know use circuits or use supersets um you can put more intensity uh into the entire program than you might normally uh when you're just doing one set at a time. So, it's a different kind of workout, but there's nothing the change could really, really be good. Another thing that I'm finding and I want to point out here is that I haven't been able to lift heavy weights. And I have just from wear and tear, like a lot of bodybuilders, uh, aches and pains in the joints, not necessarily injuries, just wear and tear, like a car engine that has, you know, 500,000 miles on it. Uh, so you know, my shoulders will ache a little bit, maybe my elbows or knees a little bit here and there. I'm actually finding a lot of these aches and pains are starting to go away or subside. Probably because I'm just not putting as much resistance on them. Even though, as you guys may know, I train very, very slow, very precise. Uh, I don't use any kind of ballistic movement. Just the resistance itself on the joint could still be causing some wear and tear. So now with the less resistance, I'm moving even slower, stretching and squeezing more, doing more isometric type of contractions, and some of these aches and pains are actually subsiding a little bit. So look at it this way. There's some benefit to this in a way. I mean, it gives your body a little bit of a break. It gives the joints a break. It gives you something different to do which can create a new stimulus. And I think it sets us up for a good rebound when we get back to the gym. uh because we're forced out of the you know it's almost it's very difficult for any of us who have the access to the gym who are so fitnessminded to ever take any time off or to back off on intensity lift lighter weights we just it's just not part of our DNA but this is forcing us to do that a lot of us and I do believe just like with dieting when you're getting ready for a competition and then you we add in calories a lot of calories after the show as long as it's not crap you can get a rebound in growth I think that can happen with training as well So, um, to answer the question, I don't think you can make new gains in hypertrophy, but I think that you can set yourself up for more hypertrophy later. You can certainly use workouts like this to get leaner and use this time to get leaner and also for recovery and repair. But there is absolutely a lot of people are afraid, oh my god, I'm going to lose all my muscle. You're not going to lose your muscle even if you do light weights for high reps. And I should point out that science does indicate that if you are doing higher rep sets, even like, you know, 50 reps, 60 reps, as long as you're taking the set to failure to where you really can't move it anymore, that still is an anabolic stimulus, and you still can get growth out of that. So, it's not just heavy weights. You can get growth out of lighter reps, lower, you know, high reps with lighter weights as well. So, you know, me even saying that you can't hypertrophy, you may even be able to a little bit if you can keep on your diet. So, definitely don't fret. Just keep moving. Oh, that's good news. Yep. All right. What else you got? So, somebody asked me a question about um whey concentrate versus whey isolate. Uh is one really better than the other? Why is one better than the other? You know, what benefits will you see one versus the other? Uh I I think that first of all when you have whey concentrate versus isolate isolate is a much purer protein. So uh it tends to have it goes through more of a filtration process. So you're taking out uh much of the the lactose. You're taking out you know which is the sugar. Uh you're taking out much of the fat. uh and you're just creating almost a completely pure protein which is almost all protein, very very little carbohydrates, very very little fat, almost no you know lactose whatsoever. Uh and you also have um more um of the protein fractions which is the parts of the protein that actually have health benefits as well uh in a whey isolate versus a whey concentrate. So, a way to concentrate, you'll see if you look at the label, generally, let's just say um a scoop, if you have a scoop of protein, isolate versus concentrate, and they're the same amount of protein in the scoop, you may find that the concentrate actually has five grams of carbs versus one. Uh may have 3 g of fat versus zero for the isolate. So obviously uh because there's less of these you know pro of car carbohydrates and fats in the isolate you know if you're dieting there could be some benefit there if you use whey proteins a lot um but you're still getting the benefit of whey protein with each I would say I think that the way I want to answer this question is is that if you are in a situation economically where you you have all the expendable money you need and price doesn't really matter always go for the isolate. It's a pure protein. It's a better protein. It digests easier for most of us. Um it's assimilated more quickly. It's a superior protein. If there is, you know, a you know, you know, like where kind of like, oh man, isolate costs a lot of money that's going to go into my budget cuz I use a lot of it versus concentrate. I would just go for the concentrate. I think that the that the that the real difference is if you're if you're just a general fitness person who likes to work out, keep in shape, watch their health. I think concentrate is really fine unless you have an allergy to the to the um the lactose and the problems with that, but I think weight concentrate is fine. If you're a competitor, a serious athlete, you got to get ready for shows, you you know, you're you're getting ready for photo shoots, you're getting ready for athletic competition, then I could see spending the money on the ice slip. You're not going to see, you certainly wouldn't have two people taking one or the other and one gaining 10 pounds of muscle and the other person on the concentrate gaining one. It's not going to be something like that. I think that there would be over a long extended period of time you would maybe see the benefits of isolate over concentrate. But I think the only people who are going to really see that and notice it are people who are on a very very high level. So high level athletes, high level bodybuilders, competitive bodybuilders versus the general fitness person. So, what I would say to you is that this really just depends on how much expendable income you have. Like I said, if money is no object, go for the isolate. If it is, stay with the concentrate. And then maybe if you are a competitor, um, and money's still, you know, an issue, stay with the concentrate during the offseason. And then maybe if you're getting close to a competition or something like that, switch over to the isolate for the last eight weeks so you have a cleaner protein source. Uh but again, this is not the kind of thing where, you know, one is going to be so incredibly beneficial over the other that you're going to notice like a big 20 lb gain in muscle or anything like that. It's the kind of thing that would happen over time. So, the choice is yours and hopefully that helps you make it. Um especially during these times, I think people might be more inclined to use a protein powder, you know, especially when they have a hard time finding, you know, protein at the store. I do. Yeah. you know, so you may have to resort to protein powder more if you can't find chicken or meat or or more not I mean not as easily as before. What would you say to people that um you know you just talked about what could be done you know to train at home to keep moving and everything but obviously it's not going to be as we're not going to be spending as much energy training in our in our home as we would in the gym. So how would you tell them to uh maybe alter their diet a little bit so they don't get fat? Well, no, it's a good question because actually all of all of the people all of my clients or the majority of my clients who I've actually had to adjust their diet. Uh and I basically just said to them, we need to start eating a little bit less overall calories because uh unless of course they have a complete whole home gym and they can still kill it. Yeah, but for the people who are switching from full gym workouts to bands and body weight, that kind of stuff, uh, because they're expending much less energy, uh, you know, not burning as many calories and, you know, just not, you know, lifting as intensely, I have everybody lower, um, their overall calories. Uh, I probably have them lower carbohydrates more so than any other of the macros. Uh, so by give me a percentage. It dep very very dependent because I try to get from my clients like to find out exactly what they're doing and a lot of them for a lot of them I'm still creating their home workouts. Yeah. Uh and I try to make them fairly intense. So somewhere between uh you know let's just say for instance that your normal workout day intake is 200 g of carbs. I'm lowering people down to somewhere between 125 and 150. Okay. Somewhere around there. Like nothing crazy. um like 25% roughly 25% something like that. Um and and you know, I may lower their protein a little bit too. If they're normally eating 250 grams a day, I might drop them just a little bit to like 225, okay, 200, whatever in that area. Uh and then of course I keep track of them, you know, and and and see what's going on. So just a moderate decrease in calories. Um of course, if they tell me, hey, I'm going to just take some time off and I'm really not even going to do anything. I'm going to relax and you know and that's their choice of what they want to do and they'll say to me how do I not get fat during this time I'll just put them on their basically their off day eating plan um got and for the whole time for the whole period of time. Okay. So basically their normal cars and which generally generally for me with my clients is and the protein will pretty much usually be around the same. I like to keep that pretty constant. Uh, but I'll lower their carbohydrates and their fat because those are the energy sources, so to speak. I'll lower those and if they're not expending the energy, then they don't need it. And the protein will help to maintain their muscle mass during this time. So, um, so yeah, so a moderate decrease, uh, depending on how low your activity level is going to be, but mostly from carbohydrates, I'd say if you're if you're trying to stay lean. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks, Biggie. All right. So, I figured being that a lot of people are at home working out as we've been discussing, uh, that I have Kimmy here, which we actually before called you the Bakersfield bombshell. I know. So, she hates that. She hates that name. Don't say that. Kimberly Daisy, Daisy. um a lot of when and some of the stuff that I do with Kim and her workouts especially because she's going to be switching from bikini to wellness and we're looking to build more lower body mass uh glutes and thighs. Uh I I have her doing a lot of plyometrics now as part of her training and plyometrics is actually an an awesome way to stimulate leg development uh even if you're you know have a full gym. Uh but it's it's great now especially because you could just use a body weight. You don't even need any equipment whatsoever. So, I'm going to have her demonstrate three really, really good plyometric movements for the legs. The first one's going to be uh a broad jump. Uh the second one's going to be a squat jump, and the third one is going to be called split jumps. So, I'll have a demonstrate a few reps and you can see how it's done and what you guys can do at home. So, all right. I'll have you start off here. We're going to do some broad jumps. So, you want to start from there and he'll go this way. Okay. So, what you can see she's doing is she's going down into a full squat and pushing as hard as she can, jumping as forward as far as she can. She'll come back this way, too. Now, she's getting a great plyometric landing. So, she's getting that negative when she comes down. And that's a great way to stimulate the quads, the glutes, and the hamstrings. And she's getting tired. I know. All right. So, now we'll let her take a little breather for a second as she catches her breath in front of all these lovely boats here. It's beautiful today. Yeah, it's beautiful day. So, get out. You can do these outside. That's a great part of it. And now we're going to have her do some squat jumps. So, straight up and down. Okay. So now the concept is basically she's going to go down to a full squat, land, and push right out using the power again of the quads, even the calves get involved, the glutes, the hips, and she's going to jump up as high as she can. Lift the arms, and that's another great exercise. Good. Okay. Which one Which one is harder, Kim? Uh, between the two? Well, the broad jumps take a little bit more balance. So, I would say that looks harder. Yeah, they're a little bit harder to like make sure that you're landing right, not falling forward when you land. Yeah, I would think so. I'm out of breath. Yeah. Okay. So, it's just going to Then we're going to show you another one called a split jump. This one takes a littleation. This one really gets your breath going and it's sort of like jumping side to side lunges. So, I thought she was going to do the split. I don't think so. Yeah. Right. So, this last one. So, you can see it's kind of just like jumping side to side like a lunge. Yeah. Yeah. And again, another great exercise. Quads, glutes. Yeah, that looks tough. Good. Okay, hun. Nice. So, again, that's involving the entire lower body. Now, I just want to show one quick exercise for the upper body. um called a pio push-up, which is going to basically you could do it against the wall, you could do it against a railing. Mhm. Just good for the upper body. Now, this is probably really good is you could do as part of a superset with another chest exercise, maybe like band flies or dumbbell flies. So, you're basically, again, the plyometric part is when she's dropping down, she's getting the negative and then she's pushing with her chest, shoulders, and triceps. And now it looks really, really easy, but I can tell you once you get to about rep 25, 30, things start to burn. Especially if you do it with a superset. We were doing these the other day, superseted with sort of like a low cable crossover movement using bands. And this really, really put a serious burn in the chest. And again, you can make these harder uh by doing at a greater angle, you know, downward. Uh you could do clap push-ups. Uh you could even do these kneeling on the ground where you're dropping straight down to the ground and pushing up. So it's another just a great exercise just to do. You can do a lot of reps, burn a lot of calories, and just helps to keep that upper body toned and in in good shape. Awesome. Thanks, Kim. Thanks for having me.