You're good. >> Next one. >> Yeah. >> So, this one's short says, "Hey, doc. What are your thoughts on the carnivore diet? I hear some good feedback about it, but doesn't sound healthy to me, especially long term. Well, I'm gonna try and narrow my response here because I could go on and on about this. When it comes to diets, I'll just be brief and say if anyone tells you there's one specific diet that works, run away because that's a bunch of baloney. Uh, many people are different. And not only that, but many people are doing things differently. Meaning, you know, I might be 9 to5 in it Monday through Friday and then I'm going on, you know, a six-h hour bike ride on Saturday and Sunday. So, my diet should be different for the Monday through Friday than the Saturday and Sunday, right? So again, to just say, okay, this diet or that diet is the way to go is nuts in my mind for for those simple reasons right there. But um you know, in my uh experience as a physician treating patients, you may find that someone does really really well, my wife on what I call a carbivore diet. All she eats is carbs. I mean, to get her to eat any protein is like pulling teeth >> really. >> And she's a freak of nature. Phenomenal athlete. uh much to my strugg Yeah. Uh and and then you have people that uh can't tolerate carbohydrates for a number of reasons for blood sugar control, fat control, uh insulin modulation, which obviously makes sense, and do fantastically on, you know, the ketogenic diet, mainly eating fats, right? And have squeaky clean arteries because there's no inflammation attached to it. And then we have the carnivore diet which uh some people adopt and is it because it's a high protein diet that giving them all the benefit or is it because it eliminates carbohydrates or carbohydrates and and some fats because a lot of carnivore diets you know proteins to say it's one macro versus you know the others is not really that appropriate because most of the foods we eat have a combination. They just tend to be higher in one or the other. Anyway, carnivore, you know, depending upon the meat you get, tends to have some fat in it, but not much in way of carbs, obviously. So, um the carnivore diet can be good for some people too. Um uh because of the high protein content, which why I would argue, first of all, is achievable with other diets, too. People think, well, the only way to get protein is meat. And we know that's not true. The joke about, you know, vegan diets is, you know, being asked 12 times a day, how do you get your protein? And we know that's a bunch of baloney. you can get plenty of protein with a vegan diet. I'm not promoting one or the other. I'm just saying it's not limited to just carnivore diets, but um uh with a carnivore diet, um you tend to get uh you know, plenty of protein. Uh you tend to like you see in nature with the animals that are carnivores, uh get more lean mass. We know that it can promote you still have to do the work you know in the gym and and getting sleep properly and all that but it tends to promote uh muscle accretion and fat loss. It's a very poor source of energy. So you don't see the insulin spikes um which is good thing. You want to maintain insulin sensitivity and of course you know four of the major causes of death are related to metabolic dysfunction. insulin insensitivity, cancer, diabetes, di um cancer, diabetes, um um dementia or neurological disorders. Which one am I missing? Um I'll have to think about it when I don't think about it. But anyway, um you know, these are things that we can control. So again, because it's a poor source of energy and you're not having these spikes, uh you know, it does tend to be fairly healthy. Um however while you can get some nutrients because you know uh those nutrients that the carnivore uh sorry that the animals eating um are becoming part of you know the uh the cells that you're eating. So you can get some of your nutrients that way but you may not get all of them and you're certainly not getting much in the way of fiber. And again depending upon the individual depending upon the individual that might be more or less important. So, um, for the health of your colon, you could argue maybe maybe, uh, a carnivore diet, uh, strictly carnivore is not the best thing. Maybe it should be a meat and some vegetables diet that works best for you. But to say that, um, it doesn't sound healthy again depends upon the individual. So, I'm not going to go out and say one or the other. I would say that for the the majority of people, which is different, um I we've done so many studies that that show for the majority of people that so-called Mediterranean diet tends to do pretty well at controlling, you know, some of the the the morbidities that can occur from, you know, things that we can control um including in this case the diet. So, um, and that of course includes a lot of vegetables with the less meat. Uh, not quite, you know, meat as a condiment like some of the maybe, uh, like a Japanese diet, but um um, you know, you you can find what level works best for you. And I would argue uh that the more athletic you are, particularly with endurance events, so people think of bodybuilders, you know, the the the highly muscled individuals as needing more protein, which they do, but even more so if you're an endurance athlete, particularly ultra endurance, you need even more protein than a bodybuilder, uh to make repairs and to make the hormones that are proteinbased, etc. So, let's see. Let me narrow in on the question. I'm rambling beyond uh you know what the question was. Um but yeah, so because it's an open-ended question about the carnivore diet, I wouldn't say it's necessarily bad or good. It depends upon the individual and uh finding out, you know, what works for you. Um and why again, so for for for body composition control, carnivore tends to work pretty well for management of um you know, metabolic function, it tends to work pretty well. Um, and I will add that as we get older, it looks like we we need more protein than when we were younger. So, it probably is a good idea to at least lean more toward I don't have to call it a carnivore diet, but a little bit higher protein diet as we get older. >> Uh, I'm going to go back to what am I missing when I talked about metabolic dysfunction. >> Um, diabetes. Oh, coronary artery disease, cancer, and um, uh, neurological disorders. Okay. Um so going back to the insulin sensitivity um you know carnivore diet should work to one's benefit to improve insulin sensitivity and avoid those those four major causes of death. >> Awesome. >> Remembered it by the end. >> All right. Cool. Thanks doc. >> We have an extension to the last uh question that wasn't asked on camera. Uh it was asked as soon as the camera was shut off. So I'd like to bring that to the fore here. Jen, >> so the question is, doesn't your body need the fiber to break down the protein? >> No, you actually don't need fiber to break down protein. The protein is broken down in the stomach, starting in the stomach anyway, with stomach acid. And um the the fiber is used if anything more for moving the the contents of um you know the carnivore diet through the GI you know moving through the digestive tract giving yourself some bulk to your stool and it can also uh help you know making there's a lot of good reasons for fiber making you know short chain fatty acids or helping to and um uh and the like but it's not essential to digest just protein but um for a lot of people it is is very important for the bowel health uh keeping the right what we call flora you know the microfllora of of the uh intestines um in the right balance um it's amazing though um and you hear arguments to all sides the body is what's amazing and how it adjusts um I've heard that typically within four days in a healthy relatively healthy person's GI tract, you can change the bacterial balance significantly just by what you eat, not by slamming a bunch of probiotics. I'm not saying that there's sometimes not good reason to use probiotics, but you can change it just with your diet very quickly. And um you know your body finds workarounds as it has had to apparently through evolution when you know we didn't just go to the store and pick out fresh fresh vegetables all year round because they were being imported from below the equator. You know we were stuck with whatever we got and if it was there we could eat. If it wasn't you couldn't until next season. So the body adjusts. So, uh, to answer your question again, um, uh, you don't need fiber to digest protein, but it can be very beneficial to someone who's eating a high protein diet. >> All right. >> All right. So, this one's a long one. Says, "Good morning, Dr. Ran. Uh, I would like to start by thanking you for informative videos. Thank you for >> Thank you for the the thank you. I would have to say that I am pretty active. I'm a pretty active person. I weightlift seven days a week in the evenings and 30 minutes of cardio first thing in the morning 7 days a week. I'm 5'5 approximately 165 pounds. My blood pressure has been normal or maybe just a little bit elevated while taking preworkout supplements, intense workouts, etc. But nothing ever really to worry about. Recently, I started Anavar for the first time. I've used several pro hormones in the past along with MK-677 still taking and have great results. Blood pressure was never an issue. The first two weeks of anavar I was fine and then my blood pressure went to an average 200 over 80. Wow. Uh went to my doctor good to get a to get checked out. His resolution was blood pressure med medicine, which I did not agree to. I then went to my heart doctor and had an EKG done as well as went over all of my vitamins and supplements that I currently take. The heart doctor says I have no issue, but my primary doctor seems to think I have high blood pressure. Well, that's a problem. After three weeks of Anavar, I stopped taking it. My blood pressure went pretty much back to normal after two weeks. I think that told me what the high blood pressure was from. But my question now is I was taking 50 milligrams to start. Should I start at a low dose, 25, and monitor my blood pressure? Could it be that my dose may just be too high? Thank you very much for your taking your time to help. Have a great weekend. Okay, so that blood pressure is yeah, pretty high. What I don't know is when that blood pressure reading was taken. I joke with patients all the time that there's a big difference between high blood pressure and hypertension. One being temporary and one being chronic to make it easy. And if you're not 180 over 120 on your way to the gym, turn around and go home. You're not ready for a good workout. That's not hypertension necessarily. That's just, hey, I'm I'm heated. I'm ready to go. I'm excited. and what we call a a pulse pressure. The difference between the high and the low, the 200 over 80 can be because you're excited, can be because you're in pain. Okay. But 200 over 80, that's a pretty big spread. Uh can things like a um a pre-workout drink, which is loaded with what we call synth, mimetic, something that revs you up, can that do that? Absolutely. But that should be temporary. um otherwise how do you sleep right and that's that's the rub that's what's important is that while these are temporary blood pressures um you know and and it's pretty high it should come back to what we would consider normal or within normal limits of say 120 over 80 when you go to sleep at night and therefore it's not considered uh pathological it's not a problem because you know just like working out If all you did was heavy squats all day, which you know would be hard to do anyway, um your legs are going to get hammered. They're going to become twigs because they can't deal with all that damage, right? Same thing with the blood pressure. Um you know, brief spurts of, you know, high blood pressure could actually be considered good for you. Certainly the what you were doing to get it high like that if it was exercise and not, you know, getting pissed at someone in traffic is good for you and worth it. Um but chronically high uh blood pressure comes with I won't give people a blood pressure medication blood pressure lesson but you know there's so many issues with the vasculature kidneys um that you know you don't want it to be chronically high duh we all know that um the fact that it looks like this person went to a cardiologist and got the okay you know I don't want to start anything but you know a cardiologist the heart doctor is the expert not the primary care physician doesn't mean primary care physician doesn't know his or her stuff but I have to make I will make a presumption that the cardiologist knows better because that's his or her specialty so I would side with the cardiologist what's not clear here is you know when the cardiologist was seen versus when the primary care physician was seen were you still taking oxangel were you not which is a good segue to yes in some cases I've definitely seen individuals who start an anabolic steroid like DHT derivative, Anavar, Oxandrolone, Winstrol, Stenazol, okay, tends to rev some people up. Even testosterone replacement on a very very few, I mean less than a handful, I can count maybe even fewer than uh three. I've seen testosterone raise blood pressure. It's rare, but anabolic steroids can raise blood pressure. But then you go back to, well, is that a pathology? No, it's a reaction to taking this medicine. It tends to leverage your personality. I always say that, right? So, if you were a jerk to begin with, it makes you more of a jerk. >> If you excuse me, >> if you uh you know are a little highrung, then it can make you more high-rung, which can raise your blood pressure. So, um the fact that it returned to normal after 3 weeks shows you pretty much what I just said. It's not pathological. It's the Anabar. Duh. Um, the question about the dose, I have to laugh because, you know, uh, back in 1962, I think it was GD SURL and company, the ph the pharmmological manufacturer of of Anavar, the brand that everyone knows Oxandrilin as. Um, and by the way, you know, stopped making a long time ago. >> They're little footballs. >> Um, and these are little white Yeah. oblong footballs. Um, but they were made in in 2 and 1/2 milligram strengths and I think >> two and five. >> Was it five? >> Yeah. Maybe not even 10. >> 2.5 and five. which makes me laugh because you know I hear I had a a gentleman sitting in that chair right there one time came in and he's literally sitting there sweating and he looks very fidgety and he says you know I started this cycle of of anavar doc and I don't know if it's that or you know he started going over a list of other things and I said well okay well let's start with you said you're taking anar how much anar you take I'm taking 100 milligrams 50 and 50 I'm like my god no uh yeah that could be why you're over there sweating because that's a huge dose. And this goes into something I think we've talked about before, which is a very common misconception. Doesn't make it any better, but you know, just means there's a lot of people that make the same mistake. And you know, if I have two 8 oz glasses identical here, but I pour beer in this one and you know, uh, rum 151 in this one, they are very different, right? They're not the same just because they're both eight ounce glasses, which is what a lot of people do. Well, it's only it's only 50 milligrams and you know, so and so uses, you know, 50 50 milligrams of anadrol, not antavar is okay, right? So why not 50 milligrams of anavar? No, it's a totally different substance, folks. And again, I mentioned the GDL original uh strengths. You know, anavar, you know, if you were using it for anabolic purposes back in the day, you might do two and a half milligrams three times a day. That's seven and a half milligrams, not 50 or 100. So, with that, and I'm not making fun. It's just uh you know, this is well, I would argue this is the reason why you want to talk to someone who's a a physician or someone who's knowledgeable in this field because, you know, this is the kind of stuff that you might pick up on the internet. And yeah, I'm sure there's many people like the gentleman who was in the office who get away with this. uh didn't get it from me by the way you know but um you know and uh but you know suffer um unfortunately uh unnecessarily um so that could be a big problem if you were taking 50 milligrams a day. Uh again, it doesn't happen that much to bring your blood pressure up, but it could be for this person here that was more than enough. And yeah, start with a much lower dose or try another one because the DHT derivatives tend to rev you up a bit and and those would be the oxandrolones, nazalol, and um well, primolan the brand name. I'll stick with that. Um uh let's see, was there another question here? So blood pressure uh doesn't look like it's an actual pathology. It looks like it's all linked to oxendone. Um, what you could do in a pinch through your doctor is if you notice that you have these issues with anabolics and and it's necessary that you take them um you could while on that and it's you know more medication but take something to control your blood pressure under supervision again because the problem here is your diastolic that the lower number is still decent 80 and you don't want to drop it below 60. So, you got to be careful if you decided, again, if they're black marketing this and doing it on their own. Again, I don't want to give medical advice, but I want to protect someone from doing something stupid. Um, that's why you should see a doctor, but if you took a blood pressure medication to think, oh, well, I'll just compensate for it. You know, you're not going to peruse your organs as well if you're diastolic. It's just a no no to to drop below uh 60 65 on the diastolic. So the other thing that could be elevating your blood pressure contributing to it by the way is the MK-677 also known as ibutamorin >> which is a great um peptidomic um but for a lot of people uh can make you hold water which is not going to help your blood pressure at all. Okay, it's thirds based water. Uh there's some um water that goes in the cells, but unfortunately um there's a goodly number of people maybe as many as 30 maybe you know 35% that have this reaction where you you hold water in you know outside the cell what we call extracellular or third space water and that's not helpful um uh you know to your measurement of blood pressure. So, um, just things to consider and and start with a much lower dose or maybe even try something different than than Oxandra. >> All right. >> Okay. Thanks, Doc. >> No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones goes on you. I kept the script. I roll the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to shut