Hi you guys. We're back with Dr. Rand for Ask the Doc. It's been a minute, so we have some good questions for you guys this month. So, first one, doc. Um, hello Doc, I'm hearing a lot about NAD as of late. What are your thoughts on it? And also, is it better to take in oral form or injectable? Thank you so much, Mark. N. >> So, Mark, thank you for the question. NAD+ meaning without an electron is what we're referring to. And the idea, the theory behind NAD being used as a supplement. When I say NAD, I mean NAD, you know, minus electron is that um it's going to help with DNA repair. Um it's going to work via the certuin, one of the certuin genes. And um there are some clinics that want to use it for uh detox. There's a fellow, I'm not going to remember his name, but he's down there in Missouri where he's had great success. I've spoken to him directly over the course of years actually. I've known him for a while. Um we don't have any studies though for that, >> but anecdotally he seems to do very well. Maybe it's it's a good adjunct. uh he he seems to feel pretty confident that there's a direct effect on breaking the addiction pattern that uh comes about from using NAD in its pure NAD+ form introvenously though. >> Um >> and that comes down I guess in part to the question um orally what's happening is you're not taking NAD+. I don't think it's uh even I don't believe it would be a stable molecule. I know it's a big molecule but anyway so we get precursors NR nicotenomide ribocide or NMN which is um uh oh boy nicotenomide monucleotide that's a mouthful at any rate and there's arguments about which one's better um they both are precursors but here's the deal so oral absorption obviously has to go through the GI tract and because of that a limited amount actually makes it into the bloodstream, which is a good start anyway. And I'll come back to why I say it that way in a second, but um the the precursors eventually want to end up as NAD+ inside the cell. Um and uh orally again, you've got the limitation as to how much you take versus how much actually gets absorbed and then finally get placed in the bloodstream and then eventually the cell. Um, but we have found through studies that with I think as little as maybe 250 or or maybe at least 500 milligrams twice a day, we can get serum levels up. So in your blood, we can see, oh yeah, it's it's it's working. It's getting the levels up in the bloodstream. But here's the rub. Okay, how does it get into the cell from there? >> And how much of it actually goes into the cell? uh whether it's the myasy the cardiomyia or or um uh you know the liver which I guess the liver is bad example because that's part of the GI tract a lot of it can go through there but you know uh depending upon where you want it to go um we have limited evidence that it actually goes there certainly has trouble getting to the brain um because of the blood blood brain barrier at least and so um oral has its limited benefits and I say limited just because limited information is the is the problem. We don't we don't know. >> Mhm. >> Uh we have a lot of anecdotal information that suggests that you know it's doing something and I always argue even it's placebo effect. Placebo is an effect but I think most people believe it's more than that and it does make some sense. Um but again without the randomized placeboc controlled studies we're not going to have the ability to say hey this we know works. And sometimes that's just a start obviously because we need to know the mechanisms which are theorized but we have to prove those. Anyway, sorry for the primer on the way this works. I think most people know that already. But um uh the other option outside of oral would be um actually well Mark mentions intramuscular but there's also already mentioned the introvenous obviously when you inject intramuscularly or use it introvenously you're bypassing the GI. So the presumption and the fact is that more of it will get into the body. Um and I say that because again mouth to anus is not really in the body yet. It's potentially it's in a tube that's about to go into the body once it passes uh through the intestines, right? Uh typically um but obviously we're bypassing that and that raises blood levels. There are risks that come with any injections. I'll bypass that because you know everyone knows what that is. Um >> but uh again you're faced with the same problem. Okay, it raises your serum levels but does that mean it's going inside the cell? And what's interesting about that I say I circle back is it looks like now the only way it's going to go into the cell even if you're doing the pure NAD+ is by a process that uh sometimes requires active transport but uh it's not just going to diffuse across and in either case I should say um it gets um the NAD gets transformed back into NR or NMN in order to get into the cell anyway that's what I currently ly read is what the the the the mechanism or the the way this works or supposedly works. So, uh there's an argument now that well, okay, let's definitely stick with NRMN because you're just making the body work too hard or harder anyway. Yeah. >> Uh to get it to where it needs to to to be inside the cell to work. I always say this that you know as a start if you're you know saving your powder for other things um uh you know you might scratch NAD off the list its precursors of the introvenous form or intramuscular form because one of the best ways to generate it is the redux reaction right turning food and usable energy and you know NADH along the mitochondria to NAD that's the best way to create it right you're getting exercise and by definition therefore it's inside the cell to begin with. So >> um you know I think if you read like Sinclair Dr. Sinclair's uh material I think and I don't mean to suggest anything but what I think I'm observing is that you got a fellow who works his butt off right and doesn't have that much time for exercise and I know again if you read between the lines I think it sounds like he's saying I work out about once a week. Okay, well then that makes a lot of sense to you know ingest a molecule or inject however you know you want to do this uh to make up for the fact that you're not exercising and getting all the benefits purported benefits I shouldn't even say purported definitely there are benefits to NAD we know that it definitely works the way we say it does um the theory part is whether we can generate the same benefits by using a supplemental form so the rest of it pretty much proven that yeah this this is a good thing So, um you know, if if uh and even for athletes, you could say, well, on the day off, maybe we don't have proof of this, but maybe I take my NAD supplement on that day, >> right? >> Um but any rate, um >> we don't think there's any harm in taking the recommended dosages. We haven't seen any. Although I would argue um anecdotally and I would include personally anecdotally uh if I took too much like as much as uh what I mentioned earlier a full gram 500 and 500 I'd get a headache and maybe it's in combination with something else I'm doing. This is the problem with not having the the right kind of study. But >> um whatever I've I've heard other people complain about that enough to know that whether it's a direct uh cause of the NR or in itself, I'll say for me it was NR. Um or a combination of that and something else that we don't know what that might be yet. Um you know that that could be a a menace. You know, nobody likes headaches. So, at any rate, um I I think though it's it's it's safe to say that it is safe enough to try and maybe start with a 250 once a day dose and work your way up orally uh just because of its ease of use and being able to obtain it. And then if you wanted to go uh I believe you'd have to go through a doctor, right, and have the um injectable form, you'd certainly need to do it for the IV form. And and again in my experience both personally and with patients uh I did see some benefit or yeah I'd call it benefit some changes when I used it introvenously and the dose there was typically a full gram and the trick there though is when you do it introvenously uh it gets your attention and it's not just the flushing that can come with a a nasin derivative. Uh it's really kind of uh to describe it sort of a a queasy stomach. Oh, >> uh maybe a stuffy nose and runny eyes and and even a headache. And so, um for most people, you have to run it if you're going to do a full gram over the course of like five hours. So, >> Oh, wow. >> bring your computer, iPhone, book, uh whatever it is because you're going to be sitting there a while. That said, there are people um and and our CEO, Michael, who we used to fight for the record, uh who can somehow gobble it up in in in faster time without, you know, trying to suffer too much because it's not pleasant the side effects if you if you run it in too quickly, but um uh and we don't know why some people can tolerate it more than others. M >> um supposedly if you need it more, this is what I've heard, uh you can gobble it up faster without as much side effect, but gosh, as much as uh Michael back then and and certainly me exercise, why would I need more of it? I don't know. So, I'm not sure about that theory. I probably shouldn't even mention it, but um anyway, uh there are some benefits to it. I argue that the best way to to up your levels of NAD+ or to exercise because you get all the benefits of exercise, too. But I I think it's worthwhile um maybe experimenting with it. Um but if you c certainly if you don't notice any difference or if you're exercising a lot anyway, maybe your money's better spent on something like I don't know beta-alanine, you know, for exercise tolerance and buffering the cell than than NAD+ or their precursors. >> Okay. Thanks, Doc.