! Good to see, I mean, every day we had, I think this might have been one of the bigger times I remember that they had, I mean, me, Ronnie Phil. Yeah. They had, you know, I saw Breon, Sean Glowys, I saw Terrence Ruffin was there, you know, Regan was there, yeah, Sean Corita came over, Andrea Shaw came over, I saw Sean Ray, I saw Chikarello, they stayed in the hotel where I was at. Was Martin? Martin was there, yeah, I saw Martin, Joey Swoll was there, I mean, Threnboys, Sam Sulek, I mean, there was so many people, I'm sure I'm leaving out of a bunch of people, so not disrespectfully, I just, I just think who I ran into. Yeah, yeah. I saw Melvin Anthony, who were dying to get on the podcast. Is he? Well, we want him on, because I'm sure he has a lot of stories, but he was there, it was nice to catch up to him, I saw him one late night, but as you know, I went to Gold's, trained at Gold's on Friday, hand on Sunday, so it was really cool. You know, Saturday I was really tired after the expo, so we actually went to eat at Fleming's after and kind of just decompressed a little bit, but man, it was, it's just how fast the time flies when I remember that, that was like always the starting point of my mindset on like, okay, New year, new challenges and whether I was training for an Arnold or Olympia, that was always the standard time of like, okay, got to get the game going, you know, got to be ready for the Arnold in March, whether I was competing or just being at the expo, because you know the training had to kick in. Yeah, or Iron Man first when they had it. Yeah, Iron Man, I mean, I only competed there and I only attended the show a couple times, but so funny, man, I was talking to Sean, I had, you know, we were eating breakfast, I was talking to Sean Ray and I was like, man, you know what's funny, because he went to Gold's to train also, like early in the morning, I think he went Saturday morning, and when we were talking about the aura and everything with the gym and he said to me, you know, I said, you know, he lived in Yorba Linda or wherever he was, yeah, so when I moved, in 99 to live in California, the end of 99, I didn't travel, I didn't go to Gold's gym ever really. Right. You remember, I would stay kind of on my own area, just because I was always had this fear of the traffic, like, okay, if I don't leave the beach by two, I'm stuck. It's a big drive from like, and it was about my meals and everything, and I wasn't someone who ate out, like for you guys that are new to YouTube or had followed me in the books back then, I was rigid as anyone could be, like I prepped all my food at home, I didn't believe in eating out. I mean, in fact, in fact, guys, I would only allow myself to eat out once a week. And that was for two reasons. It was mainly because I was so crazy about my nutrition, getting in my so-called calories and nutrients I needed to get in. And number two was the budget. Yeah. I'll be honest. I mean, back then I was making a six-figure income back in 99, but I had moved to California, set up a new home, and I was saving to buy a house at the time. And then once I bought my condo, I was in so much comfort being in that. I tend to go in a certain amount of radius. That's the whole thing when I was training. When I literally said I lived in a box, I was just locked in where it was like my area was very short. Yeah. So I had less room for mistakes. Yeah. You know, there was no, oh, if I got stuck in this traffic, I'm gonna be 10 minutes behind a meal or 30 minutes behind. I was that precise when it came to it. I'm not kidding. When I got that diet from Chris Isida when I was 18 and he brought out six meals and I ate them in exact order, I was so precise with my food. Yeah. So that was, if the secret of success is the structure. Yeah. You have to be very structured, whether you're a business person, a student. If you want to excel at anything you do for bodybuilding, I believe you have to have a certain structure and you don't vary from that structure almost every single day. Yeah. Right? So it's groundhog day every day. It's repetitive. It was necessary. But my mindset allowed me to stay in that realm and not be dragged around. And that's why the atmosphere was important too because I knew what I was walking into. I knew the equipment I trained on. Yeah. I could train at full capacity. All we said when we traveled to events for like the guest appearances weekends, everything was kind of on cruise control where we never went in. If you wanted to know a percentage of how I trained, I probably trained at 75%. Yeah. I mean, I still trained hard, but nothing like I would if I was at home base going through the same sleep pattern sleeping in my bed knowing exactly what my routine is just like this morning. You know, I get up, have my glasses of water. Yeah. Walked dogs, got in some emails, you know, handle any kind of business I haven't got on the phone yet. But then it just rolls into that. So it's just, it's all about setting your day. And I believe the tone starts in the morning. Morning routine is absolutely necessary for success, I believe. So, so to go back. So, Fidexpo. Amazing. This weekend, Derek wants for Jim event. Oh, that's right. So I'm heading to Tampa. You'll love this one. Get in from a Friday, 11 o'clock PM. I leave at noon here. Come back Saturday night, 11 PM. Well, yeah. In and out. Yes. You love that. What we do. It should be great at Derek's. You're lucky. Yeah, I'm going because I respect the champion. Of course. And I always said, you know, there's guys that I communicate with, he's one of them of the current crop. Yeah. But it's both of us. I don't want to say I have a podcast and obviously I do content. So I am aware, but I would honestly say, do I follow it as close these days as when I did? Yeah. Did the competition? No. So I don't really know who, you know, there's some up and coming guys that I'd like to, you know, communicate with just because I like the mindset. Yeah. But I think Keon's going. I think, you know, Clarita's going. I think Ronnie Coleman's there. I'm sure. I'm there. He's getting a lot of support. Hopefully. I know Andrew. I don't have Andrew. I think Andrew's there yet. I don't think Andrew Jack is back training. Okay. Because he's getting ready for the Arnold. I don't know how many weeks is it now. Eight weeks or? Yeah, it's close. Who do you feel is the front runner? Hadi? Martin? Yeah. Martin Andrew. Hadi? Martin Andrew? Nick Walker? Oh, great. Martin looks big, dude. Martin looks really good. Yeah? Yeah. He makes progress so quickly, man. Do you think he can be Mr. Olympia? I think so. If I asked you this 10 years ago, would you say yes? No. Probably not, right? No, but now because of Hadi and Darren. Derek, you know, I never thought they would. Yeah. And they were successful. Yeah. So I think Martin's got a good job. Yeah. He's so young, too, and responsive, you know. So. Yeah. Ah, can't wait. Do you have a favorite of today's era? As far as like, like as far as physique-wise and personality. Martin's one of my favorite. Is it because of the connection you had with Lee? Yeah, because I really like him personally. Same thing with you. You know, I mean, I... Oh, Lee Priest, too. I saw Lee Priest. Yes. Did you see, I sent you a video last night. I saw it. And funny. It's always, it's just, I'm really happy for Lee because... He's back in. He's back in, man. And like, if you remember, he was such a rebel. Oh, yeah. But he's such a nice guy that it's just, man, I just love to see that. And for a guy that lives the other side of the planet, right? Yeah. Now that we have the opportunity, I love the fact that he's able to do that. Yeah. And especially in his 50s. He was out for a long time of the sport, you know. But do you remember every month, it was some sort of rebel? Always. Rebel situation with him. Issues. Yeah. And he just didn't care. He didn't care. He always walked at the beat of his own drum. And you'll be happy to know, okay, I'm going to share this with you before we wrap up. I ate at the firehouse. Ah, ha, ha. Guess what I had. Bob Bull. No. Oh. Thank you. Bodybuilder breakfast. Really? Egg whites. Turkey patty. And blueberry. Multi-grain pancakes. Dorian just went at the same thing. Yeah. Really? Yeah. He took a picture of it. Shit, I should have taken a picture of it. Yeah. He went with his wife. Dude, it was so good. Ah. I miss it. Do you remember those days? Ah, I miss it. Yeah, so. And I miss going when you could run into anybody. So Angie and I, Angie and I and Matt ate. It was like 120 bucks. I was probably, yeah, I was going to say. But Bob, I was, when we left the gym, Bob was walking down to firehouse. Really? And I said, hey, what are you going to have? 36 bucks. Oh my God, it's crazy. What was it when you were there? 15, 20. Really? 15 plus step. Wow. It's doubled. Wow, really? Yeah. Holy moly. When I was training with Bob in 08. Yeah. We ate there every day, every year. I mean, prices of everything are crazy, dude, but. I know. All right, so we're going to wrap it up, guys. Wanted to catch up a little bit. Thank you so much for everyone that came out to see me at Fit Expo. Yeah. If you're in Tampa, come this weekend. I'm there on Saturday from 11 to three or four. I have to fly out at six. Appreciate you guys. Keep working towards your goals. We're in the 2020, we're rocking. I have my schedule on jcolorshop.com under appearances. I'll be at the Arnold, Arnold UK. We have our workshop February 7th in Sios at New York. Come out and see me. And for Dave and I, J walking, we are out. All right.