 N-sumorek, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pulk, pul hamstrings first uh so we do some hamstrings quads so what i've done lately is i've backed down on the volume a little bit because i've been training like seven days a week i haven't been doing as much volume so you know the days when i did the 20 sets of body part you know we back down to like nine to 12 per so we're still going to do over 20 sets but it's going to be a combination of quads hamstrings today so what we're going to start with we're going to start with uh seated leg curls um for hamstrings we're going to move over some stiff leg deadlifts one leg curls maybe some lunges and then uh we'll work into the quads some extensions um inverted leg press maybe some sort of like a pressing movement now i've been a little cautious for about two months now because i did strain my quad very crazy um around the teardrop on the bigger leg i always have one leg that's bigger than the other and i was actually finishing and trying to squeeze my quads with a squat and i was only doing like a plate or 185 and i got a slight strain in there so ever since then i've kind of backed down i'm not doing crazy weight uh just trying to get the volume in just kind of show you know how it's more of a fitness thing now for me just trying to stay in the best shape you know i'm still you know eating on a good diet but of course i get loose especially uh you know we went through all the new year's and holidays but we're through all that now the new year's resolutions people hopefully you guys are continuing i've been working on all my challenges to try to keep you guys motivated but more importantly these uh youtube videos are more educational to show you hey this is this is how to do exercise i do a little more explanation than i did back in the day where you saw the dvds um you know we've done a ton of youtubes we've done a ton of leg videos around you know around the years and obviously the style the weights have changed a little bit but you know we try to put it in different atmosphere like i said today we're at the kilo club which is a private members club uh so we're very cautious of who we're shooting in the background so you might be a little tighter shots but i'll try to explain each exercise roll through it and then uh i guess we're gonna eat lunch right yes so we're gonna show so what we're trying to do now is uh spend a little time outside the gym okay so obviously dave's got a busy schedule i got a schedule i travel a lot i'll be traveling the next few weeks so we're gonna have lunch today at the cheesecake factory you guys know the cheesecake factory is our spot it's conveniently right next door to the gym right next door yes so literally i could walk there in like two minutes so we'll finish the workout we're gonna meet maryland over there and uh and uh the three of us are gonna get some food all right what you guys eat after a post-workout of leg day which you know that should be the biggest calorie day i always talk about back and legs being the biggest calorie days i'll talk more about that but uh so we're gonna start with some seated um like i said we'll do go through the sets and reps and everything but uh thank you guys it's been a minute since we've been on youtube uh shooting a training uh segment so let's go kill it all right guys so we are gonna do the first exercise it's always my first exercise is the seated hamstring curl now over the years we've used all different types of hamstring apparatuses the seated versions this is one of my favorite just because the adjustments everything's on like a medium i go the much the most stretch you can actually go with this we're gonna start with 130 we're gonna pyramid up 145 160 so we're gonna do maybe like a couple feel sets and then we're gonna do three working sets uh really get that contraction you know what i love about this exercise is just because of i think the length of my you know between my knee and my hip for some reason just when i do kind of the seated it works much better for me i just feel the contraction more so if you guys have one of these in your gym take advantage of using it try it it's always always my first exercise whenever i start to get that blood in there i get a good pump going and then uh i roll into the other set so first of probably like five sets with the feel sets so Sometimes I pause on these and kind of do a little reset in my head. Yeah. So sometimes you see me pause. A lot of people say, oh, you shouldn't pause or whatever. I've done it my whole career. So what I like to do is just kind of get my mind to muscle connection. I always talk about that. And I think sometimes people have a hard time understanding, especially the beginners or intermediate people. It takes time to get it. It takes time. Yeah. So when I say mind to muscle connection, it's kind of like I kind of envision the muscle working. Yeah. But I also find like that sweet spot where it's like, okay, go to burn, kind of get those fibers locked in, and then really get the motion. And sometimes, you know, I might go, I usually go threes, threes, threes, then pause. Yeah, I do that. Yeah. You do it too? Yeah. But it seems easier. Yeah, and I don't count reps. So I always say 10 or 12. Yeah. But be honest, guys, like I don't count. So, and that's what happens when you get the experience. You don't have to count as much, right? Yeah. So I know I fall around like 10, 12. Sometimes it's over. Like we laugh and say some of the 14 or whatever. Yeah. But I'm going to go to the 160 for the final set here. All right. And do the heaviest weight. Remember, the rest time, guys, 45, 60 seconds. So for legs, maybe I'll keep that one minute or 60 seconds. So you can run it through the shot. Don't you have the software anymore? Don't you have the software? Not anymore. This is good. Let me talk about this. Ready? Yep. All right. So always exercise number two in my hamstring workout is going to be the standing leg curl. A lot of variations of this. What I like about this is I think of the hamstring as a bicep. Okay. So basically the bicep muscle of the hamstring. So really individually get focused on that one singular spot, which I think sometimes you do in that isolato. You're always going to have one side that's stronger than the other. And this is pretty easy. Just kind of switching the legs back and forth. But still focusing on 10 or 12 reps. Wyatt's second in my routine. Just a comfort zone. I mean, I kind of feel that way. But with this, just getting that full contraction. Really controlling it. Not throwing the weight up and bouncing it. I want to keep constant tension just like I would with a bicep on your arm. Same thing with the hamstring. I feel like, you know, we ideally want to have the best hamstring development. Especially in like the side poses, you know, all your rear poses. It's super important in bodybuilding. But it's also going to be where a lot of your power comes from. The glutes, hamstrings. They have to be a strong area. And ideally, I feel like a lot of people as they get older have a lot of resistance in their hamstrings because there's so much tightness. So remember, a flexible muscle is going to be more contractive. And more nutrients are going to flow. Blood flow. Ideal. So you remember, a lot of stretching. Maybe in between sets. Really get that nice stretch. Which we'll do stiff leg deadlust next. Which is the third exercise. So pump, pump, pump. Stretch the muscle out. And then, of course, fill it back up with all the pumping exercises. All right, guys. Exercise number three, four hamstrings. Always the third exercise. I do the same workout every single week. So pretty much the same thing. I am going to do stiff leg deadlifts. But I choose dumbbells. And the reason I do, I did this with barbells. I did it on a Smith machine. I've done it different ways. But for me, I do what they call a stiff leg deadlift. But it's more like a RDL, I guess you would call it nowadays. So it's kind of like a rear deadlift. But I bend the knees a little bit. Really get the stretch. Now, my goal for this exercise is the hamstrings and glutes. Okay, as I'm still, you know, training and trying to maintain as much muscle as possible. I'm not necessarily trying to build muscle. So I'll do dumbbells just because a little more individual. I feel it a little more. The hamstrings are a cording muscle, right? So you have a lot of cords there. Just like if you have a tear on a hamstring, you know, it's really, you've got to just kind of let it recover. You can't really, there's no real, okay, we've got to do a surgery or whatever else. So I think for this exercise, it's just more stretching. Like I mentioned, I do a couple pump exercises. Stretch it out. Allow more blood flow. And then we'll go back and we do, like, we're going to do another, we're going to lunge movement next. But also we'll do lying leg curls as our last exercise and really get that blood in there, pushed in, and then, of course, start the quad. So three sets, 10 or 12 reps, pyramiding the weight from 60, 65, last set being 70. So usually I pick my line. As you can see, there's a split in the floor here. So if you notice where my toes are, a little staggered. Get that stretch. So when I come down, I'm trying to really lean forward a little bit. Get that hamstring glute. Stretch out. I probably think this is the most beneficial exercise. You feel like you get a better stretch with the dumbbells in the bar. I do. Yeah. Do you? I think so, too. I think that's... You know, it's funny because... When I started in 91 training, no one ever did dumbbells. I didn't start doing dumbbells until, like, probably 2009 when I was really trying to pay more attention to what my training was. Which is weird because that was kind of late in my career. I was in, like, the final stages. But I just kind of... I mean, I used to wear flat shoes a lot. But for me, it kind of depends on where I come down and put pressure on my feet to really get that stretch. Yeah. And, I mean, dude, I used to do 150 pounds with this. Wow. I'm in the 80s, you know. I mean, I used to always be about weight. Now, I remember. I mean, I used to... This is kind of the similar weight I was doing in the end. It seems like when you build enough muscle, you don't have to train as heavy to maintain it. I think that's kind of the key. So, it's all about the consistency, obviously the food, the recovery. So, 65. That's good. Let's roll with it. And I still do deadlifts for back, but this is more hamstring. I'm holding the dumbbells with my fingers as hooks, if you can see. Mm-hmm. Like a hook. Hi, guys. So, what's a sports exercise, right? Yes. So, walking lunges. Now, dumbbells, barbells in place. I like to do it kind of walking. Really focusing on my glutes and hams on this. Not necessarily my quads. Now, you can put the weight onto your quads, but I'm going to focus more doing longer strides and really getting that bottom motion where I'm getting that stretch, my hamstring glute tying in especially. So, I do a couple sets of this. I'll walk back and forth. Don't really count the steps. But just enough to get a nice burn, which is going to be here to the end. That's a nice stretch right there. Nice flat foot. How's it look? Yep. Good? Looks good. Yeah, yeah. I see that. Okay. Well, that was a lot. Was it? Yeah. You want to show how far it is? Yeah, it's far. You went for it normal. The whole gym. Easy money. Easy money. Fourth exercise. So fifth exercise. Always the last one of my routine. So what I love about this is it's a standard. This is the first exercise everyone ever learned to do, lying hamstring curls. So what I'm going to do, two sets. I'm going to do as many reps as I can. The weight's at 125. Okay. It's the heaviest weight that I've done in the years since I quit. Probably even when I was doing it, I was going a little heavier. But I talked about stretching out, getting those contractions. Now get that blood flow back in there. It's going to finish off the hamstring. So hopefully at least eight to ten reps. I'm going to go for 12. And full contraction. Power through. All right. lucky 13. shit I thought it was 13. so what I love about this is like I said when I come off this man I feel like I can just certain people can't feel the lying hamstring curl but for some reason I can't so it wasn't a great exercise when I started I think if I was learning on equipment that wasn't so good you remember I used to like the Icarian the Icarian one that kind of your body was your upper body was way down there was a big arch in the middle I like that one always my weakest body part I never had the crazy hang that you see the drop it's so important now right even in classic isn't that genetic though it's like I feel like Tom Prince had crazy hamstrings dude crazy but I had the quads yes you did but I had to really emphasize that's why I do hamstrings first yeah I do the quads after because listen dominant body parts yeah so we talk about prioritizing body parts mm-hmm and I think that's what is necessary just like with chest day I do calves first wasn't my best body part people say this well I don't believe that but it was it wasn't my best body part you know it's hard to believe today not last time I don't feel like my calves are big anymore but it's still got some size in there lean so this is our first set of quads okay so always starting with some pre-exhaust movements leg extension now for me not crazy weight just trying to get the blood going because I'm already warm from doing hamstrings so ideally for me what I want to focus on with this getting the blood flow from my hamstrings to my quads focusing on 12 to 20 reps here get the blood flow do like three sets hard with more weight pyramiding the weight up and then move over to our pressing movements really get that blood now the quads I don't really get that much difficulty getting the blood into the legs especially the front legs because like I said genetics for me but with this really just trying to you know take the pain away from the knee it hurts I don't really like to do it but what I like to do is not hold on actually keep my legs on my quads so I can feel the contraction we talk about that mind to muscle is super important I think ideally for me this is also the key okay so butt and shoulder width leg position nothing crazy no pointing the toes or anything like that just keeping everything kind of straight forward and I'm really kind of feeling the upper legs because that's where I want the focus to be because I do have easy time developing my teardrops but I want to keep the frontal thighs especially the uppers engaging that way I can get the whole quad muscle contracting that was a good burn I actually feel blood in the first set light set 100 pounds so I'll do another one at 100 pyramid the weight up a little bit and then we're going to go over to the inverted leg press which is probably right now my favorite movement because I feel like it just hits the I mean you're pushing the weight off your body basically it's easy all right so I talked about oh hold on let me catch my breath so get a head rush my favorite exercise lately now squats is your number one but this is always my first starting movement after doing leg extensions so exercise number two always in my routine 10 to 12 reps inverted leg press a lot of different variations of this some of them have a really flat base to it some have a curved what I'm trying to do is put my feet a little a little lower on the platform to give it more stress on the quads yes you get the hamstrings and glutes that's what I like about this movement is you kind of get overall leg and it takes the pressure off the back so you guys have back issues or we're trying to avoid back issues I should say you know I don't like putting a ton of weight on my back now but with this I really get the blood into my legs I mean this really hits the teardrop hits the upper quad hits the hamstrings glutes and you can kind of work your foot position to try to get the best feel out of it but like I said it's always second getting my quad routine and we'll do three sets here and like I said try to focus on 10 or 12 reps pyramiding a little bit of the weight up alright so show where my feet are on the platform just you know obviously if you want to hit you know I'm just trying to keep my feet lower so it's more the frontal quad so I'm almost to the bottom of the platform yeah okay really get that quad in there yeah alright so it is your favorite movement right now you know why it's your favorite why it's the most different color yes it is tough so and you actually hate this one so we are going to do the pendulum squat okay this didn't exist back in 91 when I started training so that's why I stuck to a 2x4 under my heels doing squats and until my nose blend but this is an exercise I'm going to focus on three sets almost impossible not to work the quads whole leg area it's the hardest exercise depending on how heavy you go we're not going to go super heavy but 10 to 12 reps go through the motion great platform here really kind of just get that tension onto the quads I'm going to vary my foot position a little bit just get the best feel for it probably mid mid platform and really get that that contraction on the quads nice and deep become one of my favorite movements for quads with this with this I'm trying to squeeze not only the quads but a little bit of the glute when I come to here exercise number four standard leg press back all the way back okay nice stretch foot position on this standard shoulder width I'm going to keep my feet kind of in the middle not too high we're focusing on the quads so not really remember if you're higher up in the platform you're going to hit more quads glutes and hamstrings rather than quads so easy just like a piston easy to go through this three sets I may go up a little bit in weight but this is always my starting weight here I do like to keep the plates a little separated here as you can see just so I can grab them and take them off a little easier the weight's kind of distributed pretty evenly what's nice about these leg presses this is a life fitness they're kind of counterbalanced so you can add weight to one side and you don't get really that unevenness of hitting a different leg each time but I do two legs at a time always sometimes I do one but today we're going to do our standard just normal leg press you'll see me move through keep the tension on the quads really getting that contraction I think a great exercise for the legs as long as you can put your mind to working the quads and take the hamstrings out of it okay so foot position okay nice step like a pistol like this tension tension not walking out at the top okay that's about as far as we go 14 was it 14 yeah too easy Carolyn would love that set what's this Dave 6 6 6 alright so hip thrust which I never did until I became 50 you understand why I do this though no trouble last yes exactly pretty standard up down the rock made this cool you know that right oh yeah you can see me shake you can see me shake you can see the weakness right nice burn this is probably this is probably the most my exercise I get a burn out of really like I push myself because I only do like one movement and that's kind of before targeting only the glutes and I think this is the one I do I get a nice burn nice just trying to work the upper shelf sounds so weird doesn't it would you work your glutes I have before remember a lot of your power comes from there so I'll give three cents here however many reps I want to know just get that squeezing this is what it tells you so booty builder nice squeeze I like this one booty builder yeah I know oh man what do you think I'll eat for lunch today fries salad chicken breast yeah what are you going to get steak diane that was a really good one actually yeah all right guys so that's a wrap of the work so that's a wrap of the work that's a wrap of the work so all right guys so that's a wrap of the work I think we did five and six yeah oh so five sets for I mean five exercise for hamstrings yeah six for no I didn't do it I did five for a quads too just I did that glute thing last yeah yeah so five and five I lied I thought I was going to do three sets right each so what I normally do after so I've been doing 20 minutes in the morning fasted when I wake up after before breakfast even though it's a short window do 20 minutes and I came to the gym after meal one today so I ate at I ate about 830 so what time is it now almost 12 so through the workout I want to do 20 minutes of bike work just to kind of stretch the hamstrings a little bit this is what I normally do is keep the body moving like I said I'm just I'm in kind of that health aspect of my life where I just want to keep the heart rate up you know get a good workout in keep the muscle tone keep the body fat down you know my diet is on and off like I said but most of the time really good you know I have my meal prep with MegaFit Meals you guys see me cooking all the time on my stories and through all my different things the goal this year now is to show more cooking on the social media platforms to show you exactly what I eat because I feel like that's the biggest challenge for people it's very confusing like we all run through cycles of how we take in our food you know around my training or first thing in the morning my calories are much more dense so I'll eat like I said chicken and rice after this I do have a little french fries salad normally what I eat at Cheesecake Factory but you know besides that after leg day I'm always bumping my calories I had a big breakfast this morning I had oatmeal I had a protein shake two over easy eggs I had a strip and a half of turkey bacon I had two pancakes I made I had some watermelon and what else did I have? cottage cheese no I didn't think I had I had that last night I had that at midnight last meal was cottage cheese and egg whites so like I said now I'm taking a nice big meal rehydrate myself I am drinking aminos this is my repair which is aminos and a carb cluster in here so it's 15 grams of carbs I sipped on this live train the peach flavor is amazing great so I'll finish this like I said do 15 minutes of bike we are going to showcase the food which we always do and we'll wrap up the video we are meeting Eric over there who is Dave's trainer Merlin trains a lot of people including top IFBB pros so we'll get a little conversation with him see what's going on with his training and his you know his world and you know we've been trying to now meet on the weekends like our group of three friends the three of us to try to grab a bite you know it was kind of I felt like we were getting away from communication you know we get so busy guys with real life stuff and I travel most weekends so when I'm here my goal is to get the three of us together for Cheesecake Factory we all love it all started in in Marina Del Rey we love the Cheesecake Factory there Eric lived next door that's right trained at Gold's Venice so we'll show what they're eating too don't think see what you guys eat versus what I eat show you guys how you can eat healthy at Cheesecake Factory and also eat bad but that's it we saw the gym not crazy busy hopefully you guys took a thing or two out of the workouts like I said nothing actually crazy this is pretty much every week the same order same rep range like I said I can come in here and do week after week the same exercises same order same reps as long as I keep the intensity and that mind and muscle I'm good to go so you guys are reading stuff saying how you gotta switch up the order of exercises or do different things especially people that train at home you know I have a lot of people that are you know probably training at home these days you know people that follow me in all age demographics guys you can you can make it work no matter what just gotta keep the intensity get the contractions get out of the gym rest it feed it and it's just routine you know for you guys New Year's Resolution people man stay with it don't give up for my challenge people you know just guys keep pushing you guys are doing a great job and you know let's keep pushing each other and we'll see you guys over at Cheesecake Factory I got 15 minutes as you can see I'm building up my breath a little bit and stay tuned bro you're alive I am still alive the Grim Reaper tries to get me and they can't do it you're not supposed to come in that way why it's the it's not the main door using the back door it's our door yeah yeah that's cool dude what's going on with you man you look like it's still huge really I lost 32 pounds bro I don't think you were that big anyway that exactly so you're like Eric it's still medium size oh my god do you think he looks smaller no I told you I went into the hospital I went into the ER and they put me on the bed and they weighed me at 263 and then I left the hospital the final day and they weighed me at 231 wow it was good maybe you lost some body fat I don't think so I think I just looked a whole bunch of muscle it's only water you know that yeah you probably lost water as a nutritionist you should know I'm fine it's only water weight I'm fine what 75% of your muscle is water anyway right yeah especially because they put me on an all liquid diet for three days and all I could have was soup that was a torture what did you look forward to eating the most when you got out well while I was there actually this hospital has the best hospital food I've ever had in my life it's like a diner so when they finally told me that I was allowed to eat again I ordered a cheeseburger and fries and it was great we know about the cheeseburger yeah yeah yeah I love the cheeseburger they slice a cafeteria at some of the hospital yeah dude they have great food there yeah there's tons of people in there I'm telling you even the guys who picked me up in the ambulance and they brought me to the hospital like if you have anybody visit you tell them there's a great cafeteria here they can eat great I bet people go just to eat well you didn't go to eat you should have gone just to eat when you went to visit them yeah I know I know you picked them up right yeah well I went to go visit them and then I picked them up yeah yeah he was gonna come yeah you were gonna come visit I did visit him one time yeah yeah so welcome back from the dead yeah almost for a second time it's about that close bro for a second time I was about 30 seconds away from being done so you're gonna eat today then right I'll eat pretty much normally well I was when I first got out well eating for me was horrible because that was what the blood clot is right in the vein that feeds the stomach so every time I would eat it would back up but every day I've been eating a little more a little more a little more getting back to my normal self so this will be my celebratory out of the hospital meal on the men with Jay and Dave all the full timers you know question is when are you getting back to the jet Monday yeah Monday where are you guys gonna train we're gonna train a couple days at Dragons and a couple days at Lyft that's the plan you think you'll be stronger than him no can I get a soda water with lime please lime no I don't with lime I don't think Dave will be stronger no I still think I'll be stronger than you I mean I'm pretty weak right I mean we train you know you just throw those quick pump reps with light weight you know there's Rocco right there where yeah over there oh look look at this on camera hey look who it is what's up bro you love the cheesecake yeah who doesn't how are you doing I'm good I'm good yeah I'm good I'm getting back getting back running to the hot right five every we were just talking about I know yeah nice hi sweetie say hi hi this is a bunch of strangers I don't know if I like that where's your where's your wife she's there okay cool she's there awesome good to see you my friend you guys good I just work out next door come over yeah this is good right yeah right next door it's perfect you've been there you've been to it it's great yeah that's right that's right that's right you still going to Dragons going there yeah yeah hopefully come back on Monday get back back to it gotta get back to it bro yeah yeah alright man what do we got what do we got easy money yeah no salt they gotta make it fresh okay okay a few minutes you have okay so we got chicken breast white rice you guys know the drill Jay's got fries coming but they're making it fresh for them yeah no salt that's what's that that's steak Diane beef with mashed potato and that's that's Merlin's food right there yeah I have I haven't had a cheat meal in two months or something like that so and I haven't been eating very much so this is my celebratory out of the hospital meal my bacon cheeseburger and french fries alright so we're gonna get I do have french fries like I said so yeah alright awesome alright guys so we're finishing this video at the cheese beef factory you guys just saw us eat our meals and I just like I said we were trying to catch up on the weekends and do something a little out of the ordinary right you're feeling better now you were a little ill but talk a little bit about your comeback now and getting out of the house and feeling better back with Jim yep I was stuck in the hospital on two different occasions for a few days with this nasty little blood clot that lodged itself in my stomach and it was it was pretty touch and go there for a while but I'm out feeling a lot better and eating again and trying to gain all the weight back that I lost Jay said let's go to the cheesecake factory and of course I was on it so we had a great meal today and we always have a good time with Jay and Dave so we had a little bit it was a nice lunch yeah so we were talking a little bit about you know you do a lot of online work some in person you know you've trained a lot of people I think we mentioned this when we were training you guys did a lot of training together over the years you know obviously I helped Dave with his competitions until you came along he gave you the nickname Merlin but talk a little bit about you know your online training your like a little bit of your background how long have you been doing it and just you know obviously we have people you know all of your stuff yeah so I mean I've been doing this for like a hundred years now I've been doing this a long time I've been in the business the fitness business it's pretty much age 20 now I'm 57 so I've been doing it 37 years you know I've owned the gym I've done in-person training written for all the magazines you know I have like 500 plus articles published I have four books so I've been in it I've been with a lot of different supplement companies but all along the way my foundation was always training people in person then around I think it was around maybe 2003 or so that I dabbled with an online training you know like I started getting messages from people you know because all those message boards used to be popular back the MD message board so I'd post stuff on there and then people started asking me questions and said hey can you help me what was your handle on there oh man Body Effects 2 I think it was Body Effects 2 but on a couple of them I was the one and yeah I had a couple of different names but I think on the most popular one I was just Body Effects 2 which is like my email and that was the name of my gym was Body Effects in New York so people started reaching out to me from other countries other states I said hey maybe I can start doing this online which is what I started doing and then it just took off from there and I started doing more online stuff than anything else so I've been working with people from all over the globe just could just be regular people and it could just be athletes I've worked with some celebrities and I've worked with tons of different male and female bodybuilders but every division you know all the divisions you know anywhere from beginners to pros and that's what I've been doing most of for the last you know over 20 years what do you think is the biggest obstacle for people is it the nutrition I would say the nutrition I think that a lot of people out there can get to the gym you know and they can you know manage to do that part of it but it always seems to be the nutrition is the fight for them what do you think about new year's resolutions why do you think people don't hold their new year's resolutions because I don't think people I think that it's kind of like oh I'll start I'll start on Monday attitude I mean you can't you can't a new year's resolution doesn't really mean anything it's just kind of something that people just say so I mean unless you're really it doesn't matter whether it's the beginning of the year middle of the year end of the year you have to be completely serious and 100% dedicated to what your goal is and those people who you know who are not really truly serious they haven't really made a mental change in their mind they think that they want it but they don't prioritize it and then they just give up you know because also a lot of people want to see results in two seconds let me ask you this last question do you believe in cheat meals I believe now when I'm getting ready when I'm prepping somebody for a show I don't believe in cheat meals I mean I know that's a big thing today cheat meals so what about a refeed refeed days I believe in if I see people stagnating and they're not really losing body fat usually getting ready for a show sometimes I'll do some refeed days just to kind of stimulate the metabolism again but I don't believe in making those refeed days you know pizza, burgers, fries all that kind of stuff I think once you're in contest prep it should be contest prep all the way through so stick through the foods but just a little more correct yep I would say refeed days should be the same foods that you're eating but just you can let's say like I want to double up on the carbs but it should be the same foods I believe that it's kind of lazy to just and an excuse to just have a cheat meal and I don't believe in that I believe if you're really serious you just stay on your diet 16 weeks and you can have your fun meal at the end of the day when the show's over and then you can enjoy a little bit but 100% I stick with I want everybody on their diet so what you did it I know he said 16 weeks though but some people do diet for a lot longer depending on you know they end up thinking oh I'm going to be on this diet I get ready you think getting ready for a show like is a great is a great end goal for people like that maybe never had that mindset to actually get on stage and compete to really because sometimes I think people have a hard time like saying okay this is the my goal for what I'm trying to do for body composition or putting on muscle or whatever else I think that I think a competition is an amazing way to really really focus in on something that or a photo shoot I think sometimes it's hard some people can do it they just you know have a goal that they want to feel healthier or look better but when I have a lot of clients who have never competed before and I've suggested to them hey would you maybe be interested in me doing a show because it'll really give you a clear goal it'll give you a timeline that we can follow and a lot of my clients who I just have I have a family that I train for instance I train the husband I train the wife I train both the sons and they all did a competition together and they never looked so good in their life and now they fell in love with it and want to keep competing so yeah I think you actually have to have a goal a really really good goal that you can set your mind even for people who are disciplined sometimes you need to you know what I'm going to set a photo shoot for like three months from now or you know I have a wedding I'm going to get ready sometimes you just need that end goal to stay focused and driven I always try to push people when they meet me at meet and greet so you guys that come out and meet me and I always say you have a great physique you should compete I honestly mean that because you know sometimes it's like that hard work pays off and sometimes you know you don't reach that goal until you get put yourself to that much dedication but cool alright both Jay always a pleasure so Eric Dave Cheesecake Factory you guys saw my leg workout I did a couple easy sets just for you you did a couple easy sets cool we're out alright Thank you.