Here we are now uh at LVAC Las Vegas. We're uh the first week actually in the preparation for Mr. Olympia. So we showed you chest last week was doing chest again. And uh what we want to do is we want to show the changes, okay, that uh that occur here, which um isn't going to be a whole lot right now, but watch our routine compared to last week and then we'll roll now every week with different routines, okay? So, this is one of our final sets here. Okay, I'm not going to push to extreme failure. I could have kept going with that, but what we're trying to do is just get the blood going. So, come on in and check. All right, guys. Second exercise is going to be the flat dumbbell press. Uh what we're going to focus on here is just really getting a lot of contraction out of the chest. Second exercise here. So we started with the incin hammer press. Now we're going to do eight or 10 repetitions. Sometimes trying to keep my reps down a little bit. So even if I can push more and get more, I'm going to stay with just about eight or here. Okay. All right, guys. Fourth exercise here. do a cable crossover. Okay, what we're going to do here is we're going to try to focus and bring the cables instead of bringing them down like most people do. I'm going to bring them forward. Really try to expand the chest. Okay, as you see, I want to try to work on chest contraction. And I want to squeeze my chest so my chin. Okay, so what we'll do is seven sets. This is FST7. You're going to shoot for 10 10 or so. Pretty much close to failure on these. Stay with the same weight all the way through. delivery drive. Focus on the dumbbell pullover. Finish off the chest. Really stretch everything out. Do this exercise every workout. And what this allows me to do is get a stretch from the bottom of the chest all the way to the top. Okay? And when I bring the dumbbell up and I come up to the top position, I actually squeeze my chest out. Get that final contraction. After we get that stretch, we get that contraction. So it really finishes off bringing the blood to the area. Still focus on about 10 reps on this. Usually my finishing Heat. Heat. Heat. calf raise is pretty easy. I'm going to do uh some some reps here, you know, maybe drop down and then uh do some more reps. So, I'm just trying to burn out the calves. Okay, easy. Okay guys, for you guys um in the gym that that uh don't have a standing calf machine, here we are at the Smith machine. We're going to do some standing calf raises cuz our standing calf machine's way upstairs. So, we're going to alternate this in here. Uh what we're going to do is just uh focus on standing calves for the inner head of the uh of the calf overall calf development. Okay, we're going to focus on that inside head. Okay, we'll pump out 10 10 or 12 here. First warm up set. Two plates. Okay, we're standing on some 10 lb plates. All right, guys. So, that wraps up uh the chest and calf training for today. Like I said, we want to compare to last week. So, we uh we're looking for some definite uh improvements here as we go week to week, and we'll see different videos as we progress now. And uh I want to thank Health Toys One for their sponsorship and also fight capital.com. uh you'll see those in the front banner page and of course uh with a few other sponsors there but especially those guys we want to thank muscle and muscular development.com for the continuous uh support and you know making it possible for me to compete in uh this Mr. Olympia and hopefully be another victor here. So, we're going to check out our our weight today. Um, since I started 2 days into the diet now and uh see what we weigh this is after the workout. So, let's see what our weight is. Take the towel off. Okay. So, we're looking at uh so we're looking at about 288. 288 after we uh trained So, my goal is to get up to about 295 and then we'll come down to the contest and hopefully land up about 260. That's the goal. So, see you guys all next time.