 e Ummomandaiz, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana, pussycabergiana once we get that loaded up. And I trained a little later last night. So I flew back. Can you imagine? I got up at basically 1230 in the morning here. So it was like 330 East Coast time. I was in Maryland on the weekend. And I actually still went to the gym, came home. Andrew made a meal. And then I went to the gym, trained some shoulders, did some cardio, some abs. And then now I'm just walking the dogs. So I took my carnitine this morning, a little bit of water. Angie made me a good coffee. She's heading to a nail appointment. And we're going to get back to business. I went straight to the office, by the way, yesterday, right off the plane. So yeah, still my crazy self. And I'll kind of keep you guys. I'm going to do kind of a vlog today, show what I got going on and get in the gym and show some training and whatnot. All right, so just 20 minutes. 20 minutes fasted is what we do every time. So just get the body moving. So I've been doing this lately because it just feels better for my, you know, for my knees, my hips, everything else. You know, I walk for a while. Sometimes I do stairs. But lately, fast in the morning, I'm just doing my 20. All right, guys. All right, today is chest day. So I'm actually going to show you guys a little bit of how you film stuff without a video guy. So I'm on my iPhone, which I don't, not using a mic. I'm not using anything. I have an earpiece in, but I don't even think it's connected to this. But so what I'm doing is just propping up the phone. I've talked about this before, but I wanted to make this a little raw. So today was actually scheduled for back day. I had a crazy tissue therapy session yesterday because for some reason, flying back, sleeping in different hotels. I was in Maryland this weekend. Dude, my back was trashed. So I had Corey over at Strength Culture dig into my back. And so I switched this schedule around a little bit. So tomorrow I'll probably do back, which is actually good anyway. It's just kind of today doing chest. It will help open up my chest when I do all the back movements tomorrow. So a little bit of calf training. Incline, I'm going to do this arsenal, standing, flat press, and then some sort of fly movement. See, touch and go. So, you know, I always talk about this volume thing, but I haven't been doing as much volume lately just because the recovery is a little shallow from the traveling and whatnot. So that's what I talk about with touch and go, meaning, you know, you can't always go ball so well. And I used to do this actually when I was training for Olympias. And, you know, I used to kind of judge on how my travel schedule was, my meal schedule, and of course my sleep patterns. So I am training at Kilo Club today. I'll talk a little bit more, a little bit about the movements, but we're working at this machine. It's one of my favorites. So three places side is the max I go. It's Atlantis Press Incline. And it works kind of unilaterally. So you can kind of get a little different strength on each arm. And it seems to work really well. So this is my first exercise focusing on 10 or 12 reps. I think 12. And I'll kind of roll through it. And hopefully you guys can count the reps. So this has been one of my favorite machines lately. So arsenal strength. And the reason I like it the most right now is if you notice I bend down a little bit. And with this, I just like to be able to get under the weight a little bit and push and really get that contraction on the chest. So I don't go that heavy. Two plates each side. I think I did 12. So three sets here, just like the other exercise. And I went right into the weight here. So I won't add any. I won't take any off. Just steady and smooth. Umm... Thank you. so a little fly movement guys so this is like a bowling ball so you stick your hand inside and what happens is with this you don't get that dread that unevenness that you might get from dumbbells even though most of us are flat and we control for a lot of beginners or people that just don't have the experience these can be very useful for that and to kind of keep it even so this fly you can see that bench it's not on a complete incline but pretty close so i'll do three sets of these it's 12 or up same thing and i'm probably going to pick one exercise to finish with and then i'll get some cardio in and wrap this thing up a little bit gym is still super quiet it's the key no one even knows i'm filming right now so be cautious of people around you i always talk about that gym etiquette so no excuses that you guys can film your workouts post on youtube i encourage everyone to start a youtube channel because you never know what i really like about this is i'm squeezing every rep so guys when you see me go i mean i am tucking my chin but i'm squeezing the chest to try to really get that contraction what i love about cables and i talk about this over and over is the constant tension whereas dumbbells you know you get that momentum right and you're seeing people go through tempo a little faster i tend to train a lot of faster with my explosiveness but with these you get that constant so when people talk about cables and it's like oh that's a shape exercise or it's a finishing movement bullshit it's an actual movement to really you can contract you can do everything i'm at like like not full stack but like three quarters down i'll do three sets of these 12 reps and man it's a great moment to really get that blood in there like i said so we did you know inclines flat standing we did a fly movement and now this is like i call this like a pressing cable movement i know there's probably no such term but this is what it is some people like to do a fly move with this where i'm like you see my hands are you know my palms are facing down to the floor i'm just using it almost like a bench press like almost like a it has a slight incline on it so use this in your routine you guys have this machine or you know what's nice about it is isolateral i always talk about that one song one side is always stronger than the other on our um in everyone's position probably so use that to your advantage all right all right one more set one more set all right all right so so rope crunches uh decline i guess you call it decline i call it an incline but incline um sit-ups so everything's 15 reps and then hanging leg raises so three sets each nine total sets standing calf raises seated calf raises four sets each so i want to keep you guys in the loop on all that so 20 minutes that's my grade and speed nothing crazy just get a little action i'm doing just 20 minutes after training and uh finishing off the workout a little bit so calves chest abs cardio 20 all right so that workout is finished all right so i'm gonna talk a little bit guys so a little workout here in the middle of the day so i had to handle a lot of business this morning you know when i come back from these trips sometimes it's a little taxing with the uh with the schedule because you know when you travel on the weekends you know and this was i always talked about this when i was competing last you know years ago you know the weekends always threw me off so even with my physique i lose momentum on you know my progress so you lose weight when you travel you miss the meals but now it's more like you know if i'm traveling on friday i miss you know closing off the week and you know we have a lot of stuff happening with the nutrition brand um with the food um with the TRT clinic i had a lot of stuff for 2026 so we're trying to get everything lined up and as you know you have to kind of plan ahead so we have black friday coming up so we have you know the young la drop and then we have um i'm doing some stuff for the j cutler shop launching some exclusive teas exclusive poster um so i want i'm trying to like really really hone in next year on you know limited drops on the j cutler shop so that's coming up so if you guys haven't checked out or you're not uh subscribed to you know the j cutler shop.com along with the j cutler.com make sure you guys check that out um because you know the j cutler.com has some clothing but it's more focused on the supplements and the straps and whatnot where the shop has everything the belts the memorabilia clothing drops um but i'm gonna actually pay more attention to that site for 2026 so um you know that's it for the workout i'm gonna like get get some food get this thing wrapped up and of course uh move into the next i don't know how much i'm gonna put in this video but we're gonna compile it all together and hopefully launch it on youtube so you guys can see a little insight on what i do as i vlog and give you guys maybe some motivation do this yourself i say everyone should have a brand everyone should lock in and keep doing what they do so stay tuned i'll be back all right so i just came home the beast i just woke this one up i'm always welcome when i come through the door and babies i'm gonna cook some food next year's getting so big huh capone's looking me like crazy and uh that's what we have on the menu uh uh uh uh post-workout this comes with a little ketchup I'm wondering if I should actually use a little bit because this is a spicy ketchup or? yeah I think you might. oh it's just spicy ketchup. your favorite? megafit has the best spicy ketchup ever and I don't usually use a lot of ketchup but I'm gonna use it on this because it's really good. it just tastes so good. so this is the post-workout meal third meal of the day not that I'm counting meals at my age but I'm trying to vlog today. can you can you please stop saying your age you're not old. I know but I'm saying. you can still count meals. I used to keep track my. how many meals did you have today don't lie. this is uh. the third. third. I knew it. so I always say I eat about four meals. yeah and then you'll have like a protein shake at night if so. yeah but I'll eat again. yeah. alright so we're good I'm gonna eat and then uh. this might be the end of the vlog so I'll let you guys know. and that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's