Today's going to be basically my Monday because I just flew back yesterday. Got a little bit of rain out here. We kind of need it to be honest. But it is the Tuesday before F1 in Vegas. I do plan to go to F1 this year since I'm going to be in town. But uh they are coming right now to do transport on one of my vehicles because I think it's sold to uh California. And then I'm going to get some cardio in once we get that loaded up. And uh I trained a little later last night. So I flew back. Can you imagine? I got up at basically 12:30 in the morning here. So it was like 3 3:30 East Coast time. I was in Maryland on the weekend and I actually still went to the gym. Came home. Andrew made a meal and then uh I went to the gym, trained some shoulders, did some cardio, some abs, and then uh now I'm uh just walking the dogs. So, I took my carnetine this morning, a little bit of water. Angie made me a good coffee. She's heading to a nail appointment and uh we're going to get back to business. I went straight to the office, by the way, yesterday, right off the plane. So, yes, still my crazy self. And uh I'll kind of keep you guys. I'm going to do kind of a vlog today. Show what I got going on and uh get in the gym and show some training and whatnot. All right. So, just 20 minutes. 20 minutes fasted. This is what we do every time. So, just get the body moving. So, I've been doing this lately because it just feels better for my uh you know, for my knees, my hips, everything else. You know, I walk for a while. Sometimes I do stairs, but lately uh fast in the morning, I'm just doing my 20. All right, guys. All right. Today is chest day. So, I'm actually going to show you guys a little bit of how you film stuff without a video guy. So, I'm on my iPhone, which I don't not use a mic. I'm not using anything. I have an earpiece in, but I don't even think it's connected to this. So, what I'm doing is just propping up the phone. I've talked about this before, but I wanted to make this a little raw. So, today was actually scheduled for back day. I had a crazy tissue therapy session yesterday because for some reason flying back, sleeping in different hotels. I was in Maryland this weekend. Dude, my back was trashed. So, I had uh Corey over at Strength Culture dig into my back and uh so I switched the schedule around a little bit. So, tomorrow I'll probably do back, which is actually good anyway cuz it's going to today doing chest. It will help open up my chest when I do all the back movements tomorrow. So, so a little bit of calf training, incline. I'm going to do this Arsenal uh standing flat press and then some sort of fly movement. See, touch and go. So, you know, I always talk about this volume thing, but haven't been doing as much volume lately, just because the recovery um is a little shallow from the traveling and whatnot. So, that's what I talk about with touchand go, meaning, you know, you can't always go ball so well. And I used to do this actually when I was training for Olympias. And, you know, I used to kind of judge on how my travel schedule was, my meal schedule, and of course, my sleep pattern. So, I am training at Kilo Club today. I'll talk a little bit more a little bit about the movements, but we're working at this this machine. It's one of my favorites. So, three places side is a max I go. It's Atlantis press incline and uh it works kind of unilaterally. So, you can kind of get a little different strength on each arm and it seems to work really well. So, this is my first exercise uh focusing on 10 or 12 reps. I think 12. And I'll kind of roll through it and hopefully you guys can count the reps. This has been one of my favorite machines lately. So, Arsenal Strength. And the reason I like it the most right now is if you notice, I bend down a little bit. And uh with this, I I just like to be able to get under the weight a little bit and push and really get that contraction on the chest. I don't go that heavy. Two plates each side. Uh I think I did 12. So, three sets here just like the other exercise. And uh I went right into the weight here. So I won't add any I won't take any off. Just steady and smooth. Think about >> So a little fly movement guys. So this is like a bowling ball. So you stick your hand inside and what happens is with this you don't get that dre that unevenness that you might get from dumbbells. Even though most of us are flat and we control for a lot of beginners or people that just don't have the experience. These can be very useful for that and to kind of keep it even. So this fly, you can see that bench. It's not on a complete incline, but pretty close. So, I'll do three sets of these. It's 12 reps. Same thing. And I'm probably going to pick one exercise to finish with and then I'll get some cardio in. Kind of wrap this thing up a little bit. Gym is still super quiet. It's the key. No one even knows I'm filming right now. So, be cautious of people around you. I always talk about that gym etiquette. So, no excuses that you guys can film your workouts, post on YouTube. I encourage everyone to start a YouTube channel cuz you never know. What I really like about this is I'm squeezing every rep. So guys, when you see me go, I mean, I am tucking my chin, but I'm squeezing the chest to try to really get that contraction. What I love about cables, and I talk about this over and over, is the constant tension. Whereas dumbbells, you know, you get that momentum, right? And you've seen people go through tempo a little faster. I tend to train a lot of faster with my explosiveness, but with these, you get that constant. So, when people talk about cables and it's like, oh, that's a shape exercise or it's a finishing movement. [\h__\h] It's an actual movement to really you can contract. You can do everything. I'm at like like not full stack, but like 3/4 down. I'll do three sets of these. 12 reps. And man, it's a great movement to really get that blood in there, like I said. So, we did, you know, inclines, flat, standing, we did a fly movement, and now this is like I call this like a pressing cable movement. I know there's probably no such term, but this is what it is. Some people like to do a fly movement with this where I'm like, you see my hands are, you know, my palms are facing down to the floor. I'm just using it almost like a bench press like almost like a it has a slight incline on it. So, uh use this in your routine if you guys have this machine or you know what's nice about it is isolateral. I always talk about that one song one side is always stronger than the other on our um and everyone's position probably. So, use that to your advantage. All right. All right. One more set. One more set. All right. So, so rope crunches, uh, decline, I guess you call it decline. I call it an incline, but incline, um, sit-ups. So, everything's 15 reps and then hanging leg raises. So, three sets each, nine total sets. Standing calf raises, seated calf raises, four sets each. So, I want to keep you guys in the loop on all that. So, 20 minutes, that's my grade and speed. Nothing crazy. Just get a little action. I'm doing just 20 minutes after training and uh finishing off the workout a little bit. So, calves, chest, abs, cardio, 20. All right, so that workout is finished. All right. So, I'm going to talk a little bit, guys. So, little workout here in the middle of the day. So, I had to handle a lot of business this morning. You know, when I come back from these trips, sometimes it's a little taxing with the uh with the schedule because, you know, when you travel on the weekends, you know, and this was I always talked about this when I was competing last, you know, years ago, you know, the weekends always threw me off. So even with my physique, I lose momentum on, you know, my progress. So you lose weight when you travel, you miss the meals. But now it's more like, you know, if I'm traveling on Friday, I missed, you know, closing off the week and, you know, we have a lot of stuff happening with the nutrition brand, um, with the food, um, with the TRT clinic, a lot of stuff for 2026. So we're trying to get everything lined up and as you know, you have to kind of plan ahead. So we have Black Friday coming up. So, we have, you know, the Young LA drop and then we have um I'm doing some stuff for the Jay Cutler shop, launching some exclusive TE's, exclusive poster. Um so, I want I'm trying to like really really hone in next year on you know, limited drops on the jutler shop. So, that's coming up. So, if you guys haven't checked out or you're not uh subscribed to, you know, the jutlershop.com along with the jutler.com, make sure you guys check that out. Um because you know the jacutler.com has some clothing but it's more focused on the supplements and the straps and whatnot where the shop has everything the belts the memorabilia clothing drops. Um but I'm going to actually pay more attention to that site for 2026. So um you know that's it for the workout. I'm going to like get get some food, get this thing wrapped up and of course uh move into the next. cuz I don't know how much I'm going to put in this video, but we're going to compile it all together and hopefully launch it on YouTube so you guys can see a little insight on what I do as I vlog and give you guys maybe some motivation to do this yourself. I say everyone should have a brand everyone should lock in and keep doing what they do. So stay tuned. I'll be back. All right, so just came home. The beast. I just woke this one up. I'm always welcome when I come through the door and babies. So, we're going to cook some food. Next is getting so big, huh? Capone's licking me like crazy. And uh let's see what we have on the menu. Mhm. Uh-huh. All right. So, post-workout, guys, I have some sirloin sweet potato and then I heated up a little pasta I had left over cuz Angie cooked it. Who's behind the camera right now? >> Hi. >> Uh, and then a little crystal light >> zero sugar. So, always the biggest meal is always the first meal and the meal post-workout. This comes with a little ketchup. I'm wondering if I should actually use a little bit because Is this a spicy ketchup or >> Yeah, I think you like >> Oh, it's just a spicy ketchup. >> Your favorite. >> Meaf has the best spicy ketchup ever. And I don't usually use a lot of ketchup, but I'm going to use it on this cuz it's >> really good. >> Just tastes so good. >> So, this is the post-workout meal. Third meal of the day. Not that I'm counting meals at my age, but which workout? I'm trying to vlog today's workout. >> Can you Can you please stop saying your age? You're not old. >> I know, but I'm saying >> you can still count meals. >> I used to track my >> How many meals did you have today? Don't lie. >> This is uh >> the third. >> Third. >> I knew it. >> So, I always say I eat about four meals. >> Yeah. And then you'll have like a protein shake at night if >> Yeah. But I'll I'll eat again. >> Yeah. >> All right. So, we're good. I'm going to eat and then uh this may be the end of the vlog. So, I'll let you guys know.