So, we're at um World Gym in the Victorville. She's doing an appearance right now. So, just catch a quick workout before us. This gym is like a nightclub. Little dark in here. Is this a gym or is this a freaking vlog? You know, I'm living so rude. Heat. Heat. There you go. You wearing Transformer shirts. No Cutler. What's up, Cory? Coming up. Let it You don't look smaller. Sorry. trying to get size. That's small. Have you talked to Mark today for his birthday? Yeah, good. Make sure you interview this guy. He's a reason that we got Cutler supplements in the gym. Really? How's it moving? Is it moving? Well, yeah. It's nice. Yeah, he's the reason we have it. Yeah. Really? It's his idea. Yes, it is. This gym is awesome. We like it. It's great. He had told me before. He came by, you know, once uh once before. He told me, "You got to see that that world gym in this area. It's nice." Yeah. How long have you guys been open here? since February. Yeah. Oh, okay. It's not that long. It's been killing. Now with Jay here, we got the whole crowd here. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. Nice. I think he's done, right? All right. All right. Oh, yeah. Yeah. The crowd's going to go down this. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. But they're lining up all the way over here. Nice. They're all waving. Yeah, I do everything. You guys are first in line, HUH? How long have you GUYS BEEN WAITING? 2 HOURS. 1 hour. 2 hours. 7 HOURS. 2 HOURS. 7 HOURS. TOO LONG. Too long. All right. All right. All right, guys. Let's give it up for Jler. We've all been waiting and now he is for being out here today. It's awesome to have you. Yeah, it's uh it's a pleasure to be here. Like I said, it's uh it's kind of close to home. I'm between LA and Vegas and I decided to stop in today and greet everyone here and they're here excited to see me. So, we're going to get moving on. I know. We appreciate that. So, I won't hold you up too long. I see you've got your product. You're going to be selling that t-shirts, posters. So, how long are you going to be hanging out if they want to come and say hello? I'll be here for the next couple hours. So, they can come try, you know, we've given out free samples of the product for us. Uh, you know, you can try the product out, of course, purchase, and of course, get shake hands, take a picture, free autograph, and uh, get to meet me. So, right on. Yeah. And if you once you see Jay, if you haven't seen him online already, you'll know that he knows what he's doing. I have to touch his arm right here. That ball's like, "Oh my god, I don't know what I'm talking about. He's got me all like clamped because I'm standing right next to you." So, thanks for coming. Thank you guys very much. All right. So, come and see him. Uh, we're going to get everything going. I'm going to wrap it up so that he can start one. Like I said, he's going to be here for a couple of hours. It's four time Mr. Olympia Jer right here at Brooklyn Center. He's going to be here a few hours until we got Grant right here. We're going to put him on camera a little bit because he watches all your videos online. So, how cool is that? Now, you're going to be in the video. You going to watch this one? Yep. You go to Jer. He's 13 years old. He says he wants to be as big as Jay Cutler. I said, "Not bad for an old man." He's metal. Well, great. So, Grant, if you go on if you go on YouTube, Jacob TV, you'll see yourself in the video. Okay. It probably like in a couple next couple of days. And he wants to know if it's okay to start working out. I said he can do some light stuff. I just don't want him to get too big and show me up. Like when I was 18, you know, I thought I was pretty big, but So, that's your goal. You got to beat Jay Cutler already. All right. Thanks for coming, Grant. Okay. All right, man. I'm the right to work hard. Okay. Good luck. Okay. This is yours. Okay. You want me to sign for you? Yeah. Hey, show it to me. No problem. You want to show it to me? Cool. Show it to me, buddy. Nice. You like it? Looks good, huh? All right. That's a good one. Yeah. We sign for Brandon or to you beauty. Brandon sign a post. I just have the shirts. Yeah, I think they're $20. Jim Victorville. We're here with the owner, Jake. And of course, we had a great turnout. He's here supporting Cutler Nutrition. And uh obviously, we had a ton of uh fans, members that came, but also uh new faces. I think we saw a lot of new faces come in. Uh the gym's amazing. anyone that hasn't been out here to uh to check out the world gym. Uh you guys uh it's very up todate obviously. Uh we have, you know, weight section over here, but uh the new CrossFit section that's getting popular. I see a lot of people that actually came in a lot of women, which is about 70% women. Wow. And so, uh talk a little bit about the gym. You look really young, man. How old are you? Uh I I'd rather I'd rather keep that in my life. Good for you, man. You got a happening gym here. It's like a It was like a nightclub. Well, he's not scaring He's not scaring the women away cuz uh like you said, 70%. Yeah, it's great. Um No, we got a 32,000t facility. It is like a nightclub. We We occasionally have uh live music. Obviously, badasses like Jay Cutler come out to see the gym. We had a DJ out there tonight. Awesome. Awesome. So, yeah, we try to keep it fun and and uh interactive. Are you happy with the event tonight? Oh, yeah. It was amazing. Definitely the best one we've had so far out here. It was great. It was happening tonight. Uh Monday also was smart to have it on a Monday, right? Well, it was his idea. We talked about it. Uh obviously he uh he picked up the Cutler brand and you know he carries a bunch of other brands. His pro shop does huge huge numbers here and you know products are all available and uh you know obviously having a huge member uh gear uh section. It's it's it's really good for the for the people that come out and that want to use the products. I mean he has a knowledgeable staff. A lot of people I was going to say very good staff as well. They were very helpful tonight and uh you know it's it's kind of cool to see that kind of atmosphere. Um and he told me he said Jay you know I I I can be a big supporter of your brand and obviously that he stood up to that and that's why I'm out here uh giving a support and it's halfway between Vegas and LA. So any of you guys driving back and forth between LA and Vegas want to work out. I think it's it's 24 hours here also which it gives you a big advantage. I didn't even know that until I walked in here the first time. And uh I remember seeing the World Gym sign on the side of the freeway, which I thought was the the the World Gym, but of course it moved. It's in a big location. Tons of parking here. And it's just so much variety and and there's just so much energy in the gym. And you seen the people out here. I mean, they're very enthused about everything that's going on. And I think it was kind of cool for them. Yeah. Well, you you were actually in LA in Venice today and you told me I'm going to leave early cuz I want to train over there before the event. So, you actually trained here before you did the event. So, I I mean instead of going to Gold's Venice, I mean I wanted to come out here and train just because last time I was here I didn't get to train. I just stopped in on the way to the gym. You told me. It's awesome. And uh and I told him I said, "Man, this is great cuz you know how many late nights I drive back and forth. It's kind of good. that I can pop over here and get training in when I'm uh when I'm behind schedule and and they get a microwave. Yeah. But uh you have to when you have bodybuilders in the house, but he has all kinds of like he said his clientele is I mean I saw you know younger people in here, older people of course a lot of women. Uh we saw some pretty big guys. He has uh everything for every every age and every size. So it's pretty cool. Jake, very smart to have the radio station at the same time also cuz a lot of people told us, "I didn't even know Jay was here, but I heard on the radio." Well, that's the thing. A couple of guys came in. One guy didn't have his phone. He was driving. He said, "I just heard on the radio. I just I don't have a phone. I just want to come over and shake your hand." So, just the live radio helped. And obviously, uh, you know, thanks to them for coming out. Yeah. They've been blowing it up the last week and a half or so. So, it's been Yeah. Y 102. Well, no wonder you're successful. It was a successful event. Congrats to you. Yeah, keep doing what you're doing. Thank you guys for coming out. Yeah, it was awesome. I'm glad I came. Actually, so you guys also want to check out the gym, but also get some Cutler Nutrition. Come check it out. Yeah, we're loaded with the Cutler brand. We we rep it hard. So, come on out and check it out. Awesome. Thank you. Give the address. Uh 14689 Valley Center Drive, Victorville, California. Do you have a do you have an email the website? Uh #worldjyhd and then world gym on uh Facebook also and worldjimhd.com. Boom. Make sure to check them out. Okay. All right. Thanks you guys.