with one of my friends um this guy Bruce Bartanian and we were doing uh you know we were doing some he was had a heating air conditioning business and you know I was working in that he kind of gave me a lot of guidance he was a good um he was a good mentor business-wise for me so he said you know make sure you get the right money when the deal's right and you're going to be so much uh more valuable if you go and win your pro card at the nationals which everyone thought I should have done after the tournament of champions because that was in August it was August 19 1995 Actually, I remember dates like like like it's the back of my hand, but um and I decided to wait and I so I I actually uh took the time and then of course I went to the nationals and you were in that show. I think you were fourth or something and I won my pro card the next year and then Joe gave me the then I got the deal because I got double the money that he offered me. What did he offer you the first time? Um he offered me I think 24,000 or something. So I think the deal he offered me I think I got 60 the sec the the next year I got 60 and that was good for a pro you know first year pro back then you know right I mean remember this is this is this is 96 this isn't you know 2015 so back then I mean it went much further and you know remember at the time the weer guys no one made much over 100,000 I mean the Kevin and all those guys were the higher paid guys and I think they were closer to a hundred but I I don't even know what Yates made as Mr. Olympia. I heard different things maybe 150 or 200. But uh for me as a 24 year old kid or 20 I was 23. I mean that that was uh you know that was good money for me. Now you won the 96 Nationals as you said that was that was a good year. That was the year you beat Tom. Lost the lost the overall to Willie Stalins. He lost the overall to the same guy I lost the overall to at the 95 Junior Nationals. Uh Willie Stall, he's always managed to get that victory disappeared after that. No one ever heard from him, but he did beat you. Was that mentally tough because you kind of had a tremendous amount of hype going into that show? I mean, everyone was touting you as the next big thing. It was it was intimidating to actually compete against you because you had so much magazine hype going into that. Um did you walk away uh satisfied with the pro card or did you really want that overall? You know what? I that one disappointed me because I felt that I was like I was the best potential to be a good pro. Um I know people still doubted me at the time but shoot Dave I was 23 man and you know the guys are competing against were older and and you know I mean Tom Prince was kind of like the next guy in line and you know Titus had won the the USA um a few months prior when Tom was supposed to win and you know Tom was a freak dude. There's no question. I mean we we kind of came up together him and I were friends. Um, but I was able to pull off the victory there. But shoot, I wanted that overall. It's still kind of, you know, I look back at the career, it's still amazing to think that, you know, here's a guy that that I've, you know, was second at the Olympia six times and won, you know, four and won Arnold Classics and I still couldn't win the overall at the nationals. I never I'm still scratching my head over it a little bit. Not to dis discredit Willie Stalling, but I just thought that, you know, my the depth of my physique, you know, the thickness and the width, you know, that everyone raved about most of my career. I mean, you know, the bass was there back in in, you know, 1996. So, uh, yes, I was young. I mean, I didn't have, you know, what I had when I started winning the big shows, but I felt like I deservingly should have won that that nationals. But hey, you got the Olympia, man. That's that's the most important thing. But back in that day, you had you hadn't really won a