Yeah. Yeah. You know what? I'll be honest with you. Like I did it three years in a row and the last one was a little edgy um against Cormier. I I came in I tried something different. I I don't I don't I didn't work with Chris Aceto that year and I I um you know I just wanted to do it on my own. I came in a little smaller and I came in more ripped but you know people questioned it and I knew like my time was running. I mean come on. I mean I I never wanted to go in there. I wanted to keep the the trend going and I wanted to win the Olympia and I knew tearing down twice a year at such a big body was never going to work for me. So that's why, you know, I kind of gave it up. But to be honest, like I'm not going to lie, I kind of got like h you know what? I'm I'm over this. You know, I just I won three years in a row. You know, I've it was a big prize money. I didn't need the money at the time. I was guest posing every weekend. I signed a big deal with Muscle Tech at the time. Um and I truly never did it for the money. Like that's what people think. think I mean they look at my career and they say well Jay's you know one of the highest earners if not the highest and you know why did I never did it for the money I never thought about like what's the prize money going to be and listen I won three Hummer trucks you think I need I already had I had six or seven cars at the time I mean everyone knows all my stuff I had so you think I needed more vehicles and you know I end up selling all those anyway but you I was buying real estate at the time that's what I was doing outside and a lot of my fortune was made through those those years that's why I moved to Las Vegas was buy and sell real estate and um you know that just gave me more opportunity to make money doing that but it also took a lot of time away when I was training for competition from the business side and that's where you know I was I remember even talking Steve Weinberg pulled me aside and he's like Jay you got to focus more on bodybuilding and not on guest appearing and doing these outside things that's going to make you a better bodybuilder. I said, "Steve, in the end, it don't matter how many trophies I have or what I I need to look at the financial return and be able to build the brand and have the sustainability." And I remember he thought, "Oh, you know, okay." And then years later, he said to me, he said, "Man, you were really smart about doing what you did." Because I mean, look at the position I'm in today. I mean, I do a lot of different um I have, you know, diversity in a lot of different things. And you know, it just it set me up for, you know, a great um branding, but I'm still giving back. I'm still, you know, probably one of the highest, you know, social media guys, you know, top bodybuilders in our business. And uh, you know, a lot of people still can learn from me even at, you know, I'm 42 years old. But, you know, to get back on on that, I mean, it was just like, you know, the Arnold Classic is it's the second prestigious show. I wanted to win the ultimate, which was a Mr. Olympia which I achieved in 2006 and I was able to hold that. Of course, you know, we can talk about the history, but you know, I held it for a couple years and I lost it and came back and won it twice. So, let's talk about uh the ' 06 Olympia win because uh you prevented Ronnie Coleman from winning a record-breaking ninth. Um I felt bad thing because a lot of people figured Ronnie would win 10 maybe more times. Uh, obviously Ronnie started showing some signs of maybe wear and tear on his body. Um, that wasn't convincing with you. When you heard your name called out, because you had heard your name called second so many times in a row. When you heard your name called for the win, did you know you could win or was that really a surprise for you on stage? I knew cuz Ronnie Coleman told me Ronnie Coleman said to me, you go back and look at the the uh the film, guys. You'll see Ronnie Coleman mouthing some things to me. And Ronnie Coleman said, "Well, you beat me." He said, "You won." And I I didn't know what to say. I felt terrible, you know, cuz, you know, he was trying to cement his legacy by being, you know, the ultimate winner of the li Mr. Olympia. And uh so I was kind of like torn between emotions like [\h__\h] I just won the Mr. Olympia, but you know, I feel bad for this guy who's trying to break the record and and uh didn't happen, you know. But I knew I won. I mean, I knew I I knew I had him. Um, and I was just thinking about how how I was going to speech um to all the fans because it it was such a long road. And you know, no matter what I always did, and I still do nowadays, it's very fan related. It's very um like my motivation came a lot from the fans, especially later in my career, because I never planned to compete as long as I did. And the reason I stayed in it for so long was because I had such a huge fan base and the only reason I came back and competed in, you know, 2013 was because of the fans, you know, so I was very fan driven and I always I'm thinking, okay, what am I going to say to the fans and how am I going to address this? Because, you know, emotionally I was like, wow, you know, I I just won the Mr. Olympia. But I already knew that from Friday anyway cuz I knew I was dominant on the stage and Ronnie was starting to, like you said, show some signs. So, uh, that's all that went through my mind was what the speech was going to be and and how I was going to, you know, present that to now as the new new Mr. Olympia to the fans. How did the Jake Cutler persona change once you became Mr. Olympia? I came of a mindset change. Did you change the way you conducted your life and your business at that point? You know what, my my career jumped to the next level where, you know, once you're Mr. Olympia like everything changed you know financially the respect um I was became not I was already the ambassador let's not kid ourselves I mean I was already the guy um even before I won the Mr. Olympia that you know people admired or not I was you know second so many times I it was like having a dual Mr. Olympia black times with me Coleman. So, uh, it wasn't anything new in in that sense, but I realized that the respect became so much more and the demand became so much more and, um, that was the hardest part is, you know, trying to balance out real life and, you know, time at home with my wife and the dogs and being on the road every week and being booked and trying to refuse the, you know, five, six, seven, $8,000 guest appearance fees every weekend and the merchandising going through the roof and the DVD sales, you know, selling $50,000 worth of DVDs in one week. Um, it was just crazy, you know. So, it's just it's mindboggling to think back now because I think how much, you know, my life actually changed at that point. Um, you know, and um, you know, the demand stepped up to the next level. Jay, you won the Olympia two years in a row. Um, obviously huge accolades, the fans loved you. And then in 2008, you fell. Uh, you had an off year. Dexter Jackson, always that dangerous guy. When someone's a little off, he steps in and he he exploits that. And he exploited in08 and he wins the Olympia. Um, what the hell were you thinking then? You that had to be like a very big crushing blow to you, not only from an ego standpoint, but from a a confidence standpoint. Yeah, that sucked. you know, I started to that's when for the first time I'm like, am I each reaching the end of the road? I knew I'd been competing a long time. Um, you know, I sat down with my wife at the time and I was like, you know, what do we do? And I was in a bad state of mind from September, October. And then in November, you know, I got a call from, you know, Hani Ramod, who I, you know, kind of was on the other side. He was more closer to to Ronnie than myself. and we had been friends, you know, we spent um Easter together, I think 2002, you know, so we had been somewhat friendly. And, you know, he said to me, Jay, you know, I know everyone's kicking you when you're down right now. And um you know, I I just think um I think you can come back and you know, you could be really great and um if I can ever do anything for you, just, you know, let me know or whatever. And at the time, you know, Chris, after that show, Chris and I had spoken. He's like, you know, I think I think, you know, you you probably should, you know, think about, you know, doing stuff maybe on your own. Because at the time, we started to have a little disagreements. I had a lot of people around me that were were really kind of um telling me how great I was. And I think maybe I started to believe that. And he Chris didn't like it because everyone had their opinions. And sometimes that's what happens when you become the greatest in the in the business that you are. and as a respect as a friend and you know as pretty much family to Chris you know he's like you know I think you just need to figure some stuff out and uh and that's you know at the time when I you know I remember calling Hanie back around December and I said you know what I said um you really think I can do this and come back because I contemplated retiring at the time I mean I had done so much in my career already he's like yeah I think you know we can I I'll help you you know and at the time he was helping Phil um who still wasn't there yet. You know, he was third that year, which you know, still could have won. Um but we started working together and you know, we went into heavy training. You know, I started doing you know, under his toutelage and you know, things things were different, you know, than I when I worked with Chris. I mean, he he pounded the food in me. Um once again, I think it was more just because I got complacent with Chris more than anything because we're such good friends. It was really hard to to handle business between. And that's really what uh you know what we worked in through 2009 um leading up to Olympian. I think you know Hanie had his doubts but at the same time you know Hani was never as confident as how I would do as Chris was. But you know he he said let's just see how it goes and and next thing you know I mean I brought the crazy physique back for 2009 you know and I stayed training heavy and hard I think. But I was extra motivated from that loss because that that that sucked. I mean, I lost to Dexter Jackson, who was great, but no way in hell I thought he should have beat me um you know, at the level that I was at. You know, I got complacent and, you know, I I I disappointed a lot of fans. I disappointed myself and you know, my my team around me, but you know, I established a really solid team leading in 2009. I had crazy training partners. I had, you know, um you know, I just had the the therapy started again. And I was getting, you know, late little lazy with that um with the with the tissue work. And you know, I was able to come there and when I walked out on stage and you know, I remember days before on Hanie looking at me saying, "Holy [\h__\h] you're going to you're just going to shock the world." You know, and I walked out on stage that night and you remember that was for sure the greatest uh the greatest moment of my life. Um winning the Mr. Olympia when I came out. I just just came out there. I did that [\h__\h] quad stomp and it's like the place went [\h__\h] crazy, man. You're the only man to ever rewin the Olympia back after losing it. So, um that that's a great accolade that will go into your resume, obviously. Which Jay Cutler do you like personally the best of all the Jay Cutlers over the years? You know what's funny is, you know, that that is a common question and and we disagree and agree with a lot of things. It's really hard to pinpoint it. 2009 I thought was a great look. No question. But I think my physique was much fresher in the early years like 2001 with the sunken abs. Um I just know training uh training back in 02 03 years 01 I felt like a [\h__\h] machine man. I everything just clicked. Like I told you I could do anything. I went in the gym and I trained with light weights. I trained with heavy weights. It didn't matter what I did. The diet that Chris had me running, it was just everything just clicked. So I honestly think and you know I know my best my heaviest weight I ever competed at was 273 O2 Arnold Classic. I was an absolute monster. I had the quads. I had the shoulders. Yes, the condition wasn't up to par with what I would stand next to Kai Greens or Phil Heath nowadays, but it didn't matter. I had a lot of round muscle. Um, I walked into that show. I came off the Olympia diet. It was a joke. I came off the Olympia diet. I went right back up to 290 and I sat at 280 through the whole prep and I competed. I dropped a few pounds before the show and that was it. I walked in there and I mean I won that show pretty convincingly. So, that look was good. 2001 because the the definition was so good. 2009 um I thought was was outstanding because, you know, just the lineup I was against it. It just looked good. Um, you know, the glutes and hamstrings for the first time were really torn up. Um, comparable. Um, but a lot of good balance. You know, I just I got the balance back with the leg that had had an issue. Um, and it was just such a redemption to be able to go through that. And the training, I remember going in the gym and training and, you know, I was doing two, you know, same thing, 45 minutes twice a day cardio and I was only training once a day. But just the team I had, I I mean I look back at that and it was just the most memorable time cuz we had such fun getting ready for the show that it made it so much better when I did win. And then my career was basically I mean it was relit and I became a [\h__\h] star again, you know, and and that losing and winning was the best thing that ever happened to me in my life because the fans that that hated Jay Cutler now loved him again and I gained so many new ones and you know all the things that I signed nowadays and and put out there you I signed a deal with Muscular Development at the time um right after that show I left Flex Magazine because they [\h__\h] on me and and treated me like I was going to be nothing. Um, so I was really um disgusted with with the way I was treated after 2008 by them and I signed with MD and everyone said that you can't be uh Mr. Olympia being an MD athlete and you know I shut that whole that whole [\h__\h] up when I came back and won in you know 2010. Uh so a lot I put to sleep a lot of the um a lot of the uh you know [\h__\h] theories that people had and that's what I love most about my career is that my body did the talking and my movement did the talking where it set people up so they had a more comfortable position in in bodybuilding to to be who they are and not just you know play like a [\h__\h] puppet you know. Yeah. It's interesting how you know in this industry they sometimes throw you out when when they don't want you anymore and uh it is interesting that you know I'm sure was licking his chops when you became available but uh he did support you and he didn't pay you very well and then obviously that went well for you. Uh let's talk about the one controversial Olympia a lot of people you know still talk about this day. I know Victor Martinez still talks about it to this day. Um the Olympia where Victor Martinez you know felt he won. couple people, a lot of fans felt he won. Talk to me about that show. Um, you know what I mean? I still think I should have won, you know? I mean, I know I came back. Listen, I may not have won the prejudging. Um, but I was Mr. Olympia. We know how it all works. This I went through my downside. Victor never stepped up and came back after 0 07 and presented a good enough physique to, you know, he got injured or went to jail, I think. But um I think you know I came back at night better than the morning. It was always the case with me. Um maybe not 2009 but um uh I had an infection at the time so I just you know I did have you know an illness and it was just it definitely hindered my physique. I wasn't at my absolute best. I always said that you know I was more dealing with the Dennis Wolf thing. you know, people saying, "Oh, I was running from Dennis Wolf on the stage," which was total, you know, I I didn't even know Dennis Wolf was in the lineup to be honest, um, at the time. You know, no disrespect to him, but like I was only worried about who I was going to beat first or second place, not a guy that got I think he got fifth or something. And, uh, you know, I knew Victor was right there and I knew Victor looked good. But listen, man, Victor um, you know, he's always been I mean, NOOCC 2000, he was 2003, he was great. Um he won a few other shows with but Victor's never been in that crazy crazy condition where you say, "Wow, this guy's like night and day above everyone else at on the Olympia stage." So, I mean, it was close. It was a close call, but you know, I'll take the W. I mean, it is what it is. And, you know, it's I'm sorry for Victor. He didn't he didn't get that Olympia win, but um you know, I still would have come back and beat all these guys anyway. So, it really doesn't make a difference, you know. Jay, let's talk about uh obviously in 2011 you lost to Bill Heath. Um you tore the bicep I think right before that show. You got that fixed in 12 and or right at shortly thereafter. Took the year off, came back in 2013. Um do you in hindsight do you think that was a poor decision on your part? Um no. And I'll tell you like leading just so you guys know I mean 2011 was a horrible year for me man. I um you know I my dog died 3 weeks before the show. Traced my Aire Del Terrier which you know he was 10 and I was you know everyone knows how close I am with my dogs man. They were my life. You know I I had separated with Carrie um in June of 11. Um I had moved I was living at the Mandarin Oriental downtown Vegas. you know, I was out of my element for the first time ever in my career where she was still helping me because we had split kind of mutually at the time. um you know the the traveling and all that just you know the whole thing took