All right, guys. Here we are. Leg day. It's uh What day is it? Thursday. What day is today? All right, guys. It's Monday, International Chest Day. And once again, we're doing legs. So, uh, what we're going to do today, quads and hamstrings, which is a common workout with me. I like to group the body parts together. Yes, I've done receptor in the past. You guys have seen that. But I'm going to hit some hamstrings first, then go into some quads. Um, I traveled this past weekend in Michigan, came back. I'm in town for the week, and then I head over to the Middle East and Hungary for my big tour for two weeks. So, I'm excited about that. But in the meantime, we got the business to take care of here in Vegas. So, we're hitting legs on a Monday. Let's go check it out. All right. So the main exercise the ones I'm comfortable with doing for him the lying leg curl. We started with some seated leg curls. Get the blood in there. But a lion leg curl is like the meat and potatoes exercise. No, we try to do three or four sets. Um a lot of these people do hamstrings after they train quads, but I prefer to do them before. There's always a weaker body part in the quads. The quads are always needed for me to build. So, I'm going to get some blood into the the back of the legs and then I'll go into the quad training after the same 10 or 12 repetitions. Uh next, we're stretching out leg deadlifts and then uh maybe some leg for a couple sets and then we'll get into the heavy uh heavier quad train. So, My third injury exercise is going to be a stiff leged deadlift. Now, we're doing these with a dumbbell, which a lot of people do with a barbell, even a cable. Uh, but what I like to do with these, a little bend at the knee. I know they come stifflegged, like straightlegged. deadlifts. Focusing on the hamstring and the glutes. All right. Little bend. Really get that stretch. Okay. Not coming all the way up, but just keeping contraction on the hamstrings. Okay. 10 or 12 repetitions. Really get that stretch. Now that we've done two pumping exercises with the seating and the lying leg curls, and then I'm going to finish it off with a one leg curl. Only a couple sets. We'll do three to four sets here. And we'll use a little platform just because I like to be a little a little elevated. I'm retention on him. Okay, so we finished uh hamstrings with one leg curls after stiff leg. It's uh three sets, 12 repetitions each leg. Um this is more of an isolation movement. As you can see, I squeezed and held on a couple of those movements. Uh really just trying to finish off the hamstring. Now we're going to move to the quads. Uh we're going to do leg press. We're going to do uh leg extensions. We're going to do squats. Probably some lunges. Uh and see how we feel from there. Um you know, like I said, I'm just more for the volume. But you're going to do three to four sets per exercise and still focus on 12 repetitions. So remember guys, it's all about the contraction. You guys don't have to go in there and go crazy on the weights, which it's cool to squat a lot of weights. I did it back in the day. Obviously, when I'm trying to get a lot bigger, but right now, a lot of it's maintenance, just trying to keep bonus in the muscle. So, we're going to focus on more angles and more repetitions with volume. Okay? That's your key. That's what's going to expand the legs. And fortunately for me, I'm an easy I'm an easy leg grower. So, you guys out there that have those hard hard gaining legs, man, stick to the volume. Remember that repetitions and volume. That's going to get you the most size. All right, second exercise after leg extensions requires. We're going to do inverted leg press. Not all gyms have this. This is going to help us. Um, I think it's really good because honestly, the blood flow comes down. Um, and then when you stand up, obviously it changes the blood flow direction. So, I always say that, you know, flush your legs with blood. You know, being upside down and then standing up on your feet, letting the blood rotate around can help, you know, build the muscle a little easier. So, just going to focus on 12 repetitions. Really just try to get a good contraction. You guys with your back issues, be careful of this machine. But I I enjoy um the crazy pump with this one. a lot of focus on the legs back up and then calm as far as trying to do squats or even leg press in my opinion. So, one of my favorite exercises actually legs are not all So wrapping up another leg session. here about an hour long. Spent about 20 25 minutes on hamstrings and the rest on quads. Uh just finished with squats, basic back squats. Same thing, 12 repetitions. Went up to about 185. Uh then we moved over to walking lunges, which one of my favorite exercise. Bring really bring the glutes and hamstrings in. Um you know, the focus is the quads, although the the hamstrings and glutes are worked in there. And uh you know what I what I'm trying to stress about leg training and it's probably the most common question because listen let's be real half your body is your legs. So everyone has to find what works best for them. You know 10 to 12 repetitions always work best for me. Like I mentioned the high volume is key. Um genetically I was blessed with shorter legs so I have more development was a little easier for me. So if Jay Cutler gives you advice okay this is how you grow legs. I'm just saying by by my best results came from this type of training. Um I think that you know it's important to feel the muscle. I think a lot of people focus too much on the weight especially with the squat movements. I was a big advocate of front squats when I was training winning Olympias. I still do them once in a while. Maybe I'll get some of that on film next time. But you know I stay with the same exercise. And the most common question watching these new YouTube videos is Jay, why do you train with the same exercise every week? The truth of the matter is you can always progress as long as you have the time and attention, the focus on training those muscles and you don't necessarily have to train change the order. I think I did it more when I was trying to compete and win Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classics, all the other shows because I just was afraid that I wouldn't progress. So, I changed the order of the exercises, but let's be real, there's only so much stuff you can do in the gym, and certain gyms are equipped. I think these YouTube videos are more uh now um instructional for those who train, not necessarily at the big commercial gyms. You guys are limited to what equipment you have. You've got to make do with with everything. You can do this this routine at home. You can do the walking lunges, you can squat, put some weights together. I mean, obviously leg press, that kind of stuff is a little more difficult, but for you guys working at home and just following a routine, and hopefully these these new YouTube videos are for you guys, too. Whether it's male or female, whether it's young or old, I think just goes to show like this channel is now doing the experience of someone that was at the top, now on the other side. My goal isn't to be the the giant Mr. Olympia contender I was. It's more just to stay in fit shape. Um, still got some legs going on. You guys see this this going on. You know, I down sized a lot. Still about 250 lbs. A lot of you guys are asking what my weight is now. Um, you know, I'm just trying to maintain and I'm still in the gym and I'm still in there training four to five days a week. I'm going to keep putting out the content. You guys keep answering the questions that you guys below ask. Okay. You'll notice now we have the Cutler Nutrition pink shirt for breast awareness month of October. These these shirts are now available online uh cutlerathletics.com. Also, click the link below. You guys can see we have these shirts now available. So, if you guys want to support cancer awareness, we also have this hat and both are going to be limited, okay? Once October's over, these these shirts and this hat with the pink is done, okay? So, the snapbacks ladies, you can also wear this hat. Uh I'm always a supporter of everything. Try to do things to coordinate with what's going on in you know the monthtomonth uh supporting all those out there. My goal is to give back. Now remember you know I was given a gift to be the best bodybuilder and help promote the sport of bodybuilding but most importantly also be a role model for a lot of you guys viewing this channel whether it be young or old. Uh I'm doing my best to continue to do that. give you guys the motivation, helping you guys gain the confidence, build your empire, build your brand. I keep saying it, video after video, believe in yourself, guys. Tell your stories. Go out there, show the world what you got. Just be you. And this is the truth about these videos is I'm just being myself. I don't take things as serious now. I like to have fun, but we come in here, we get the work done. You guys see the lifestyle. You see me traveling weekend to weekend worldwide. So excited to go to the Middle East and tour Dubai, Jordan, Kuwait, going to Hungary, Abu Dhabi. We're going all over the place. Going to see the troops when I'm out there. I'm going to just travel the world on my own time. Not to do competitions or anything else. I'll be there greeting. I'll be available. I'm always on the Snapchat, Instagram, and of course Jay Cutler TV YouTube channel. Till next time, keep watching, subscribe, tell your friends to subscribe. We're looking forward to giving you guys the best content. Thank you guys so much. Heat. Yeah.