 and I'm here to talk about how we're back for another YouTube, it's back day today. We're here at Fit Club Las Vegas, just got back on the ground. I was in Maryland this weekend, wanted to get back on track, trying to get my meals in order. I've been traveling like a madman in the last few weeks. We haven't been doing as many YouTubes. My commitment now is to try to stay a little more consistent, which I have some on the back burner. I have some going forward. But today I wanted to show a little bit of back training. I got JMAC behind the camera today. We're gonna get some quality footage, get some explanation of some exercises, and lead you guys into the start of a new year, because I know many of you guys are starting your New Year's resolutions as we roll up and wrap up another year. 2025's been crazy. I want to thank everyone for all their support. We have been doing a lot between Cutler Cast, all the appearances, Cutler Nutrition, Mega Fit Meals, Young LA, RTRT Kingdom. We've been crushing it. So I want to thank you guys for the continuous support. You guys will see all the links below. We're gonna get at it. So make sure you guys come check it out. We're at Fit Club. Make sure you guys check out Fit Club when you're in town and come over and see Gavin and Vinnie. They'll take good care of you. Let's go. Better and improved. How do we do everything? What should I try? That's what I want to know before I hit this work out right now. So what other gym do you come to and we have Fit for Life here, which I... Fit for Life Desserts. Yeah. Go to fitforlifedessertslv.com. So make sure you guys check it out. Everything's gluten free and refined sugar. I have vegan, that's the brownie. That's a hit. Do I pick it up or is it okay? Grab it. Oh, that's a breakfast cookie. That's a good negi. That's not free. Okay, so I do something for everybody. Not free. But my approach to cookies a hit. Carrot cake. Carrot cake for a hit. All right, so we're ready. If you'll fuel the work out, make sure you guys check them out. All right, let's load this thing up. Probably the only gym that has pink equipment in it. All right, so we're always starting with the reverse. You guys know I always talk about the reverse pull downs being something to really pull the latch. So we talk about the front though bicep. And I used to pop the latch out. Well, this exercise is really good because you get that pull on the latch. Now I like to do these both arms at a time. You can do them isolatorily, especially on this piece of equipment. So we'll get a couple of feel sets in, get the motion, and then probably three working sets, and then we'll roll to the next. All right, so with the reverse pull down, what you'll notice is I'm very explosive to really get that contraction. So I believe that we have so many muscle fibers that we need to hit. Ideally with that explosive movement, I feel you could target specific muscle fibers. You know, there's the fast twitch or slow twitch. Now some people you notice in today's era, a lot more people are training with that slower, concentric, eccentric movements. For me, I power through the movements. You can watch all the old videos a little more loose, but beneficial for what we do. So really explosive, control, explosive, okay? But control is the key. It's not gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. It's gonna be much better. All right, little more weight. So, pyramiding the weight up. Back in the old days, someone just asked me, I was just in Boston, Jose Raymond asked me about, did you ever use 10s or 25s when you were training for Olympias and I had to think about it for a minute and we had this ego thing where I didn't touch anything but 45s. Truthfully, I did use 25s and 10s, I'm not gonna lie. Because sometimes you want that little extra resistance. Nothing wrong with that. I never messed with fives, I'll be honest. I never really went up in five pound increments but 10s, 25s, 35s. Good pull on this. Let me do one more set. One of the biggest questions, what kind of tips can you give for getting the biggest pumps? Number one, you guys know, I always talk about pump comes with food. You need to have glycogen in the muscle, obviously that's gonna give you that crazy pump but you need to eat. So I always suggest eating one hour before training but really having sufficient meals on a consistent pattern is going to give you the pumps. Number two, supplementation. I mean, nitric oxide, citrulline. I mean, I have a pump product called Amplify which has all these ingredients in it that's gonna help with blood flow. You guys really just trying to get, you know, a better pump in the gym. You know, you have to have that mind and muscle connection so you have to basically really know what you're gonna go through and you gotta do these repetitions. Now, we talk about the crazy pumps they all come with repetitions. So repetitions meaning everything over eight reps. So I never really performed any exercises under eight repetitions for skin bursting pumps. I think that's ideal. Now, we have a lot of different theories on how to get the best pump. Sometimes we would do drop sets, super sets. For me, it's just straight sets, short rest periods. So 45 to 60 seconds between each set. Keep the intensity, keep the blood flow. But remember also, the tissue work is going to help open up that fascia, okay? We always talk about having fascia that's stretching, allowing the blood flow, the expansion of the muscle tissue, okay? We talk about muscle fibers. You know, we go in the gym, we work for the biggest pumps possible. We don't care what weight it is. We can make a 10 pound weight feel like 100 pounds if we even want to. So ideally, keep that fascia loose, stretch a lot, you know, do that deep tissue massage. Stretching is important in between sets. Keep that muscle healthy, keeping that blood flow, the nutrients in there. The pumps can never be enough, right? Yeah. You can do that. I love that. I love that. It's great. It's just a good amount of energy. Okay. So if you notice, there's always one set you take a little further. So I always talk about training of failure. For me, I don't think I've ever trained a failure necessarily. Definitely not at this point in my career. I'm more just going for peak contraction, really getting the feel of the muscle, right? You see me go through and I struggle for those last few reps. If I never count repetitions, which today I really just kind of go by feel, it's touch and go. I always end up between eight and 12 reps. I know it's a broad range, but ideally it's all about feeling the movement, getting that contraction, keeping it above eight reps, blood flow, train for the pump, don't over fatigue yourself. Remember, I'm trained in seven days a week, which I never recommend. I love being in the gym. I love training. I love being moving. It's definitely more for my mind than it is for my body these days. Just gonna shift right over here. So we do a lot of dumbbell work, but today one of my favorite hammer machines is the low row. I actually had this in my home. I built the home gym back in 95 as I was training for the nationals for my ProCard. And I actually picked out the top hammer machines. They had just got launched out at the time. Hammer strength was a new thing. So I was able to put these in my gym. And this was one of the machines that I actually put in there. And I had a really wide back when I was younger, but I really wanted to work on that thickness. So I consider this kind of a thickness exercise that kind of mimics the dumbbell row. But what I really like about this is you have the pad to keep yourself stationary. So I'll do single arm at a time here. So isolateral movements, where you see me do the rows. So ideally keeping the chest, not pulling too much, but really getting that contraction, really squeezing the lat. So you can get that Christmas tree, the lengthening of the lat. And this can build the width, but also mainly the thickness. The rhomboids, the traps, everything. So the whole back portion. So start with two plates. All right, so single arm guys, good body position. I actually like to hold this base here. It was very little, little bit little bit little bit little bit. very strict when I said strict I kind of laughed a little bit because strict doesn't go in the J Cutler vocabulary training right They call me the form came or I'm being corrected on Instagram all the time for my crazy sloppy form Actually, you know, it's funny when I was 21 I had my first muscle and fitness magazine cover and it said why delts on it and it said J's sloppy shoulder routine Because when I did the the interview, you know, they used to write the articles and I talked about I trained sloppy I was at full admission of what I do and today now full circle over 30 years later They're kind of talk about how J's form is not so good in this and you know, people think you need to train so strict bullshit It works wherever it works. Just do what you do. So we're gonna do three sets here I don't know how many reps that was will probably pyramid the weight a little bit. Let's see what happens I I I I Rep volume versus rep time What is the ideal for muscle growth now for me, you know, I've always been a high volume trainer So when we talk about high volume, it's a lot of sets after sets. So the time that I actually rest is actually short I believe the shorter rest time. Yes, you can't go as heavy. So your repetitions should always fall between 8 and 12 I think ideally that's what it is, especially training volume and the rest time you're not gonna be a strong You want to either do one or the other you want to train low volume low repetition Or you want to train higher volume short rest periods and higher repetitions. It always worked well for me Now I've never tried the low volume approach because it works so well out of the gate the higher rep higher volume Short rest periods That's the way I was taught early on when Chris Isido took me under his wing back in the early 90s when I was a teenager and for me watching my progress watching, you know My my lifts go up at the same time my body growth why change anything, right? So we all have our certain systematic approach on how our peers trained or how we were taught and remember this was pre-internet so we never had the visual experience of watching someone perform exercises until during the ages, blood and guts came out or you know, I watched you know other people saw and raised videos Who was more of a trainer like I was so you had one extreme versus another but for me I think longevity plays a key so when you want to train You know and stay lasting in the gym and be able to train into your 30s 40s 50s I know some of the younger generation. They don't think that I'll be training that long But here I am over 50 years old really just trying to stay in the gym stay injury-free Feeling great, and I can tell you guys you've heard it to me say it hundred times. I feel like I'm 20 years old in the gym I can still train no pain no restrictions no injuries. I think that's the way to be so I think Ideally 45 to 60 seconds rest rep volume eight to 12 repetitions I think set up to set a minimum of six to eight different Exercises per body part so three sets each four sets each whatever it is kind of determined I think five plus so you hit a different different angles of how a muscle can contract and see how it works in your routine It's worked the best for me obviously I I I I I Jim etiquette Jay Mac This is Jim etiquette taking your weights off the machines. Let's do this pull-over machine here old school rule We hear that so many times today So today we're doing the pullover now you guys across the globe don't have a pullover machine in the gym Many don't but this is the oldest school pullover machine This is Dorian Yates made this piece of equipment of course original color blue Nautilus pullover chain driven. Okay, we never see any chain driven equipment if they do they're bringing it back So ideally this exercise Really lengthening the latch so we do this with cables. We do it with dumbbells. We do We try to duplicate a million different ways I know there's a lot of different machines out there But nothing nothing can duplicate this actual machine with that chain drive you get that full Traction and of course this same thing we're focusing on repetitions But we're really just trying to use the elbows to pull just like I was doing like a Christmas tree on stage And hitting the lat spread or the back double so I'm using the elbows to really pull through get that contraction in the Lats get the best feel-as exercise so check it out I'm gonna do an underhand I Alright so with this the weight doesn't have to be crazy So the main thing is is a contraction You know what they say safety first so we're gonna have to lock ourselves in in the next Set really get that feel so first set is always a feel set and then we'll go into some really working exercises I This is a little more controlled you notice how I talk about explosive But I feel like with this one I want to feel the movement a little more So you notice I pause to try to really engage the muscle So I know it's confusing but a lot of people talk about mind to muscle connection I feel like it's kind of foreign talk to someone that's fairly new to training They don't really know how to lock it in but what we try to do is we try to visualize how the muscles contracting under tension I think that's really the best way to explain it and sometimes you got to close your eyes And you have to feel how the muscle locks in it took me years to figure it out But and I still still find in different movements that really appeal most to me So when I come to different gyms, you know like many you guys see me train on like social media like Instagram and whatever Kilo club. I don't get to venture down to this gym as much. We seem to shoot a lot here, right? This one has a lot of different piece of equipment So when I actually travel to a different gym, that's why I always talk about this You should travel and if you have gyms in your region you should travel a different gym Maybe on the weekends or whatnot It gives you a good opportunity to try different equipment to get out of the monotonous routine Sometimes it's just about change up sometimes that motivation is just hitting a different gym training with different people Training different tempos time a day listen in different music Training with different people. I think you know, we all kind of need a refresh once in a while Ideally today getting on equipment that I don't usually get to use which is that low row that reverse grip this pullover machine I mean, we'll probably do a CDK row a couple more exercises Like I said, I'll probably do about five different movements kind of get the feel I just wanted to give more of an instructional video so you guys could see how my mind was working Maybe give some few tips if you guys take one thing out of this this whole video of suggestion that you can put into your routine It's all I care about, you know, I'm trying to do think me how many times have I done a back video Think the last one I launched on YouTube just not long ago was a back video trying a different gym But I want to be able to showcase. Hey, this is what I'm doing. This is what I suggest through a security experience Not to say it always matches up with everyone's routine So we're gonna do one more set really get that squeeze and go at it All right, so we're gonna do something a little different from the past So normally for you guys that followed me back in the day, you've seen me do a million Seated cable rows now I prefer a change up a little bit sometimes you have a little more of a down motion So you're pulling this way sometimes you're pulling, you know straight and then sometimes you're on the floor You actually see it on the floor so it gives you a little more pull to the lower lower lats This is a double cable system. Okay, so this is gonna individual allow me to utilize my lats Individually now I'm not gonna do a row one arm at a time I'm gonna do the double row but my starting position is gonna be palms down And when I come back remember, I'm not trying to come back or do I'm trying to keep my back and straighten Really pull with the lats I see way too many people using their their ass or their legs or everything else their biceps to pull This weight now ideally Okay, chest up back So it's all back movement. Okay, same thing eight or 12 reps. We're gonna see what this weight feels like Okay, remember here and you're gonna watch me turn like this. So there's gonna be kind of a supination of What we're doing? What I like about this is if you stood behind me The way I'm pulling it is allowing me to come out with these cables So they kind of V out So we're getting a good Lat contraction Everything is about contraction. I can't stress how many times I see people go through motions and they're not feeling the movements So remember repetitions count Mind the muscle connection counts Lock your body in the best position to feel the movements and get the most benefit out of an exercise like I said sometimes that's Six reps eight reps ten reps 12 15 20 Doesn't really matter as long as you get into fatiguing the muscle Getting out of the gym. You're growing outside the gym feeding it resting recover Do it all over again in 72 hours What Yeah, even filming a video even filming a video so yeah, so this guy just came up and he goes the myth is true You only rested 45 seconds. He's counting my time The Silliest question anyone's ever asked me what is my favorite body part to train Come on now, you know the quad stump is what my signature pose is at 19 I squatted 700 pounds in high school. I couldn't even fit into regular jeans My legs were always genetically something that I was blessed with it was the shape I found out becoming a teenage national champion my legs overpowered my upper body So I had to take years off from training my legs In fact from 20 until basically 22 I barely trained my legs until I let my upper body catch up But if you want to go through the hardest workout remember half your body's your legs It always furiates me someone who only trains their upper body and not their legs Remember training your whole body is gonna give you the benefit everything's gonna grow as even so do not Neglect a lower body, but at the same time if you're gonna ask me a question on what my favorite favorite body part to train is Make sure you do your research first. So we're gonna do the standard t bar so I Never would have done this Movement but this guy just came up to me in the gym and says I love your t bar rose So I said, you know what I'll bring back the old school So when I was challenging Ronnie Coleman back in 2000, I mean I started in 01 our battles 0102 345 I beat him in 06 but by the time 2004 rolled around I was watching his training and I watched him do these heavy T bar rows which was basically a bar in the corner So we're gonna use a handle like a seated cable row handle and ideally just foot good foot position Really work on that thickness so if I needed to battle him and beat him with the rear double bicep Which I can't ever say I necessarily beat him But I developed enough thickness and he regressed because of age I was able to conquer him and beat him in 06 But definitely put on that front to back thickness So we talk about the width a lot of people can build great with good cap on the shoulders good lat width But not a lot of people can build this thickness and that's the difference between professional open body building and professional Classic physique body building if you notice the density of the open guys is super thick front to back where the classic guys I don't have that density they have width But they don't have that thick thick density which comes a years and years of training time and time again in the gym So we talk about rep set recovery food all those things letting the body weight climb up You have to be able to structure your routine to really emphasize Whatever the goal is you're setting out to be so that's why you see a lot of people transitioning from Classic physique too open because it does take time. I won my first Olympia 33. I retired by 40 Ronnie Coleman His first at 34 Phil Heath won his first at 31. I mean the list goes on and on So it does take some density to get there and in today's era You need crazy density to to win the mr. Olympia competition. Okay. All right solid foot position I Important Head stays forward key I'm gonna go up a 25. Yes, I just did some crazy back therapy So I don't want to tweak my back because he just tore my back to pieces So we're gonna go up a little bit and wait see what this feels like I I So last movement which is normally one of the first ones people doing the movement So it's gonna be the pull down movement so we can do this with a cable we can do this with a machine We can do pull ups ideally the number one exercise I would say probably for your lapses your standard pull ups In other words with the body weight or with some weight added on but we're gonna use this techno gym pull down now I like this because it really gives me that pull in the latch So we talk about with exercises. This is one of the great with exercises I know some of you guys like the front pull downs you guys like the rear pull downs, but this is more of a machine You're kind in the middle. So it has that break in the middle Same thing 10 or 12 reps pretty standard lock the body in what I like to do with this is sit a little closer to the machine so if you notice I'm gonna sit close with basically my My crotch is in the machine pretty much and I'll keep the seat a little lower So I get that full extension and ideally I'm gonna get a little hold at the bottom very very slight Half second quarter second hold and then get that full contraction. Okay? once again Okay, I saw lateral machine. So you could do this single arm at a time I'm gonna do the double arm really try to pull the latch finish it off and Close it up for the back routine I Once again power through the exercises I love that Explosive boom just like I hit the poses. I never was always slow getting the poses. No boom hit those poses Get that crazy contraction. All right I'm gonna go up a little bit and wait. I'm gonna use a 10. I always say don't use 10s. Nothing crazy Kind of finish this bad boy off So like we said 45 60 seconds rest between we talk about the rest time Keep it short. All right close to the machine here So I talked about this How much volume should you do I always pick five six? Shit I used to do seven eight Three sets each so if we did what do we say five movements? Six movements six movements times three sets and I did a couple feel sets. So shoot 20 sets of back Plenty plenty plenty when it's  four meals a day, five hours sleep at night, supposed to sleep, yeah. I don't know why, I just, yeah, I just, you know what, man, it's just as you get older, which you're not there yet, you'll notice as you get a little older, you don't need as much sleep for some reason. I wish I could, but... All right, so my current training routine, you guys ask this question all the time. Man, I wish I knew what my current training routine was, because, man, with a travel schedule and training seven days a week and taking, I was, I'm a very, I kind of touch and go as I work through my routines now, but I'll tell you the days, okay? So I do arms on the same day, I do chest day, I do back day, I do leg day, shoulder day, okay? Every other day training, I do abs, okay? That's on my repetitive, which is crazy, because I never did abs in the offseason, but now, for some reason, I just love training abs every other day. I do my fasted cardio in the morning every day, so then I do a session afterweight training. So I actually do two cardio sessions a day and some sort of a body part training. Now, calves are done on chest day, which you guys know I prioritize, so always calves first. So prioritize the weak muscle. So if you guys have a weak muscle, so say you're doing back and biceps, prioritize those biceps first. Your back is more overpowering, you want to focus more on the biceps, either switch of the day or prioritize that muscle. But every day is different, like I said, I just know that I train one body part a day, or if like for quads and hamstrings, I train those parts or triceps, biceps one day, but I train seven days a week, which I never suggest, but ideally I'm training, like I said, just to keep moving from my mental state. And of course, I don't mind looking good sometimes either. Good pump. I noticed for me now, I always talk about how, man, I used to go in the gym when I was eating all the food and I was doing all the extra stuff. When I got in the gym and I do one set and my back would be like... But today takes me a little more to get the pump. Because I talk about the foods not as much as supplements, the rest. Back then I was taking naps during the day, sleeping six to eight hours at night. So it's a little different now, but I'll tell you lately, the workouts have been very substantial and really kind of feeling things. So if I can get the food and I can rest enough, like I've had a couple days from the trip to recover, it's allowed me to be able to kind of lock myself in. I prepared for today's workout even though I was shooting. I wanted to get it in and we kind of rolled through it. So my suggestion is always mentally prepare yourself for the gym. Train at the hours that suit you best. Now, I used to be an early trainer, midday trainer, late day trainer. Every day is different. I can promise you that. I'm never on the same schedule, so I'm not one of these guys that will go on YouTube and say, I get up at 4 a.m. and I meditate and I do... You know what? Every day it's different. We have a lot of obstacles to get thrown at you in life, a lot of adversity. My travel schedule, I wish... Actually, I don't wish because I love my schedule. But structure is important, but at the same time, when you're busy and you're doing other things and enjoying life, you have a social life, things that I did not have when I was professional bodybuilding, I would lock myself up for the four months before a show. And that allowed me to really hone in and I could stay on that schedule. So for me, now I'm just kind of rolling with it. And for me to actually have this kind of workout, it's just great. And I enjoy it. And once again, I want to thank you guys for following along the YouTube videos. If you guys have any comments or questions below, please chime in. I'll get on there and answer them. And you know, we're putting out more content. Like I said, I'm trying to get back in a good rhythm. So I want to thank everyone for enticing me, the continuous support I get for pushing me to continue to do these videos. Even at my retired status now. I want to thank you guys. I appreciate you more than anything. And let's keep crushing. All right. Until the next episode, J. Mac and myself are out. JTV, keep crushing it, guys.