All right. So, this is the view. 8:00 in the morning, Santorini, a private pool. And these are the vineyards. That's the uh one part of the island. So, this has been an awesome trip. Uh, I got to relax quite a bit and see all the sites, which I normally don't do. So, it's it was pretty awesome to be able to be up here and, you know, I traveled to Athens to see a lot of my fans and help promote my supplement line, which is launched over there. And now, you know, we uh we took a three-day trip, Mo'Nique and I uh we usually don't get to take many trips together. So, it's been it's been pretty cool to actually spend time together and not have the stress of work and travel around us and get to sleep in a lot of days, get to eat a lot of good food, and uh now I'm refreshed and regrouped, ready to go home for Memorial Weekend this weekend in Las Vegas. And uh I'm booked out in June and July and August like crazy, seeing all these different events and um you know trying to do my best to put out more content for you guys to uh to watch. So uh keep watching for that stuff and thank you guys for the support. I've been posting stuff all my social media platforms so you guys can see what I'm doing and I'm going to plan on doing a lot more trying to work with uh getting more content out about my lifestyle as I've been off the stage now. But looking forward to this year's Olympia, man. I can't wait to see Kevin Levone up there if he makes it up there and and Phil Heath, uh, you know, try to win a sixth, tie Doran Yates, see Dexter Jackson, who just won the New York Pro, which he looked awesome. I know Rolley Wrinkler gave him a big battle. I expect him to be in the top six this year if he puts it together. Um, you know, we'll see if Kai Green makes it up there. I'm not so sure he'll make it, but hopefully we'll see him up there. And uh you know, Dennis Wolf gets back in the best of health. I wish wish the best to you, Dennis. Um good luck on the recovery. I know you had some back issues, so I'll be seeing him in Las Vegas. And uh you know, I'm going to start, you know, I'm going to start a program when I get back. I'm going to start getting back up there, show you guys some progress. Um get back into crazy shape. And uh you know, these guys are motivating me definitely being out there on the circuit. And all you fans, too. you want to see uh Jay Cutler, you know, get back to better form, you're going to get to see uh see that firsthand. So stay tuned. Okay, see you guys soon.