Hello. I'm appreciate the female asking questions. Thank you. To be serious, What is your advice to all the youngsters, teenagers in Hungary in order to stay such in the Hung despite all the success they are about to reach? Um, I think you have to I had I'm just going to speak how I handled it because I never forgot where I came from. I was a fan. I I can't speak for everyone in the room, but I know there's a lot of people here that have followed my career and you guys are avid lifters. Um, you're dreamers. Um, you know, you want to be seen or heard. And um you know I I said that if I ever make it that you know I would treat people the same as I did from back then. Um and that's why like today you know I come here and I speak and I know it's translated which is it's takes time. It's a little frustrating for me because I would like to speak freely because I have so much to say. Um, but I will not leave here um at this evening until I take either a picture with every fan here, anyone. Shake hands um whatever it may be because I'm here for you guys. You know, I do this everywhere I go. I never refuse a picture. I never refuse a you know, handshake or whatever. So, um, just understand like I'm as the same person as when I started joined that gym at 18 years old. Um, no matter how my success was, I can't explain how to keep the youth the same way, levelheaded. But listen, I've had more success than probably any bodybuilder in the history of bodybuilding. Um, I'm still doing what I do at a higher level, I think, than when I was competing. So, um, I'm going to continue to do it. Um, I'm never better than anyone else. No one in this room is better than anyone else. I mean, it's uh we have to stay humble at what we do. We're just I'm just great at what I did for bodybuilding. And um I was given a gift and I'm just going to help spread that word and spread that gift to you guys that are sitting and listening, taking time out of your day to sit and listen to my speech. And I hope we'll be able to stand over here and take a picture when this is all over. And I'll stay here until the last person leaves the building. Just leave your shirts on now. feel and as you Um what was my favorite year like when I was competing or um a couple years. I mean I won the Mr. Olympia 2006. I beat Ronnie Coleman which you know I wanted to so bad and I was second to him so many times. Um my last Olympia 2013 I finished sixth which wasn't my best show but that was one of the greatest because I knew it was my last. and I said had such a huge career and I sat stood there on that stage with, you know, all the great bodybuilders and I sat back and reminisced about my whole career and um I knew it was my last and it was exciting for me to leave that way. But I also I miss the old days of bodybuilding. You talk about it. You know, I grew up as a fan of magazines before computers um internet existed, I should say. I'd pick up scrap magazines at the gym because I couldn't afford a $5 magazine. off the food stand off the off the um magazine stands, you know. Um, so I would learn that's how I learned. Um, you know, the young generation now has the internet to watch videos of Jay Cutler like this. This didn't exist, you know. Um, we only have the magazines to and um, we learned routines through the magazines. Those guys came alive in the magazines for us. And um you know that's that's the only outlet we had. So um you know I missed that. I miss it because every guy was displayed as a hero in there you know and uh it was it meant a lot if you were in the magazine. Like I remember first time I was in a magazine I was so so excited you know. Um, now now anyone can shoot like a YouTube video like we're shooting here. Um, and anyone can put themselves, you know, worldwide. So, it's changed a lot. It's a good thing. It's a good thing, too. But I miss the old days. Hello. What is the reason behind this or is it true that you train. That's what this guy um I just train very focused. Uh it's not that I'm angry or like you know he think probably thinks I look angry which a lot of people do. I'm just very focused, you know. I I like to uh I like to connect to the weights. It's hard to explain, but I don't just I don't just do reps. I actually envisioned like the muscle working and you know that's what it takes to be the best at what you do. And um I don't like to be bothered a lot when I train, but I don't mind being bothered when I'm outside the gym as much, if that makes any sense. Yeah. Answer the question. I know this is a good question. I heard Ronnie Coleman three times. What what were your strength against the point when you thought I can beat this guy? Um when I was training to win Olympias, I was second to Ronnie Coleman four times. I hated Ronnie Coleman because he had what I wanted. Um, and he was superior from the back. Um, I thought I was better in a lot of poses. In the front he was bigger, but um, I had better detail in the legs. My midsection was sharper. I had the wide shoulders. But he killed me from the back. And uh this this is 2005 that you see right here. And this is when I knew that I would I didn't win this show, but I knew the next year I was going to beat him because my back started to come up. It was actually the first year The first year I stood from the back and actually challenged Ronnie Bulmer. Um, so I knew right then that I had him, you know, he was getting he was getting older, too. I mean, let's let's be realistic about it. Should they be should we should My legs were better, though. Your hair was on the Yeah, I had better haircut. I had the best hair in the body in a lot of years. I still got it. Still got As far as concern judges during the 2009, Mr. Um, yeah. So, I I had a nerve issue. Um, and I did what they call traction. it was like a um, it stretched my spine as a therapy. It was a machine. So, it took the pressure off the nerve which I was, you know, one leg was smaller than the other. Right. So, um I was able to train and get the size back in the leg which helped a lot. Um the leg was weaker, it was smaller. Um it was affected and then so it goes back to your question, you know, what did you do differently? I did everything possible to bring my physique back to the best of my ability. And you're right, you know, my leg was smaller and I brought it back. It's still now um you know my left leg is bigger than my right still. I didn't fix it completely but it it is it did um it did a lot for the size. potential Sammy. So, um you know, I was able to win and my legs were always great condition. You know, I always had striations and um I had the sides. I just um I needed them to be symmetrical. Yeah, this will be the last one. You are friends with and how did you guys meet? Hammer. Steve. Yeah. I only know him as Hammer or Steve. Um, I met him years ago in the United States at a photo shoot for Flex Magazine, but I see him daily. I see him daily in the gym um, as a trainer. He's a great guy. They call him the Hungarian hammer. So every time I see him, I yell across the gym and I say, "Hey, where?" But he he was so excited for me to come to your country. He was he asked me about it every day. He text me like as I was landing, which I think you probably text as I was landing, he literally text me, "Have fun, hungry." And you know, I think he misses here. Um but you know, he seems to be happy in the United States, too. But I see him every day in the gym at in Vegas. So he should tell him I mentioned his name during this seminar. Appreciate you asking. He'll be so excited that we talked about him in the just a short question about your opinion. If you can name one person, who would you pick as the goat of Mr. Olympia? You can you can name yourself. No. Um I would say Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman. He was probably the greatest, right? Um I think I mean he holds a record tied with Lee Haney, but uh you know he had the crazy physique, you know. So that's why I was so great when I when I beat him, you know, because then I became, you know, the one I know he's called me out. He wants to get back on stage, you know, but there's no shot for him to beat me again. I will win that one. due to the performance stage. Um, yeah, you you're pretty much brain dead. Uh, but you're running on adrenaline. I mean, you know, someone like me that dedicated my whole life to being the best bodybuilder, um, you know, you you would do whatever it took to be the best, right? um as many of you would. Then I think I envisioned I envisioned myself on stage so many times it just became routine. Um it was easy for me to stand up there. Um it takes a lot of courage to get on the stage. But I just I was so good at it and I was so good at taking the moments in. Um the problem is is the media never let you enjoy your moments because it was always like whenever you won they all were already talking about what's next, what's next, what's next and you were never satisfied. But, you know, how much is enough, right? I mean, I won four times. You know, Phil Heath's won six now. You know, Ronnie's won eight. The Arnold's won seven. Um, after one, it's like everything else is a blessing, right? took it out. I was satisfied um just winning one and uh you know I just kept moving forward. I did it for the fans a lot. You know a lot of the fans um some people in this room motivated me um to be better. That's what you look at. So after you win everything and like you know you're made and you know you need some motivation. So the fans would write to me and you know say hey you know you can do it. you know, you motivate me and and that's what gave me a lot of the drive to be honest. I mean just a thought of me having fans like when I started I was a fan as a kid you know and then fast forward you know 20 years later or 15 years later whatever you know I was I had know fans millions of fans all around the world it's crazy even think about it right now I want to be for everybody. You know, when people like yourself ask me questions like that, it's it makes me really think, wow, you know, what is Jay Cutler? You know, it's everyone has a vision of a different person, but you know, I'm here. You know, I'm here with you guys and I'm here face to face. This is real. You know, Adam made this possible. And, you know, thank you guys for coming out. Um, it's it's great to be able to be here and experience a little bit of time with you guys, not just from a video or magazines or whatever else. You know, you took time out of your day to come see me, which is awesome. How did you get into? Um, I came from a construction background. Um, and you know, I bought my first people piece of property when I was 17. Um, commercial property and I knew, you know, I had a passion for that. I guess um I talk about passion. Um but um I knew like you know property always gains value, right? So once I had once I had the finances which I did as even as a kid cuz I worked from 11 years old. uh you know I just continued to roll money and I when I started winning competitions a lot of competitions like 200 23 I bought properties that's why I moved to Las Vegas to buy and I won six shows in 2003 pro showation So every show I bought a house with the prize money. tomatoes. I was able to use that as a huge stepping stone that gave me um great success um and great capital and I continued to do that and and uh I don't buy as much now but because the market the market softened a little bit but um I was able to make a very good living doing that for a long time and you know it's still something that I still want to continue to do. That's part of the 5-year plan also is to buy more property.