No, he doesn't bite. I was there. I was there. I went to Chile. Yeah. 2008. Cory, tell me about your course. St. Pet. Yeah. Um, do you remember a guy from Georgia, a Swany location, right? It could have been. He said he knew you. I I uh I trained I think I back in the Mecca champ. Back in the Mecca bodybuilding. We're here with Cory Flex. What's up? Who's repping uh Cutler Athletics? Yeah. Yeah. You brought the fat today. He's also repping uh Roots of Fight here. Of course. Roots of Fight also. Jesse over there sent him some clothes. Jesse sent it to you. Uh yeah. Yeah. You don't have to buy clothes anymore. No clothes anymore. No. He's only allowed to wear certain uniforms. So, so we're going to hit a little chest today. Obviously, uh you know, it's sunny in California and mid January, which is kind of nice. I heard Vegas today is a little windy and chilly. I came out last night. So, uh things have been going well. Obviously, I've been out and about and still doing some stuff. And uh Thanks. When are you bringing your bike to Cali? Everyone wants to get video of me on the Ducatti, right? I know. Doing all the doing all those stunts. Uh yeah, I don't know. We'll see. We'll see when the weather gets uh gets better in Vegas in order to get it out get it out here, you know. I don't want to do that drive. We talked about that this morning. Yeah. Yeah. No. No. The drive can be pretty crazy. So, all right. We're going to go inside and check this out. Yeah. I get tickets. Probably uh a little bit of Okay. I can't wait. 2:30 or something? Where you at? that like 2:35 2:40 in between there school in between there and you know. Yeah. Everybody in here today though. Yeah, man. I I came late cuz at the drop on little man at grandma's get over here and I like I need to work out. I'm like, you know what? No, so we're here at the Mecca. Where my bag go? I got to take my legend here. I thought. So, this is our this is our sample legend. And uh going to show all you guys out there, you want to stay hardcore, I'm going to show you the hardcore way how to take your pre-workouts. under the tongue. Faster absorption. You're mixing it with amo pump. Double dose. You can stack the two. To be a legend, you have to take what a legend takes. Most common question everyone's asking me how often I train my calves every day. No, I say once every 5 to seven days, maximum twice a week. Uh repetitions like 12 reps on just like every other body part. The main thing is getting a full contraction. You know, I always try to do a standing movement. Start with that. Then I do a seated sometimes throwing some donkey or some leg press uh toe presses. But the main thing is is really get that get that deep stretch at the bottom. Really let the heel drop and get that stretch and then a nice peak contraction. And a lot of times like I'll double up. So I'll I'll go up and then I'll do a peak. It's a one two. Yeah. like a a one two uh motion that I've done since the very beginning. And listen, I had no calves. So, everyone knows the conversations I've had. I've had trouble building my calves. So, believe me, best of the best. We were on We were on uh Turkish TV together. What was it? Was Yeah, it's very famous. uh night show over there. What was that? 2007 2006 2008 2008 we went to Turkey and Nice. Me's a big star in in Turkey. He's a big star everywhere. Yeah, he was star too. Good to see you. cake. The late the the weights are lighter in Venice. That's why that's right. Oh, you Venice. Heat. Heat. So main focus on the inclines. Obviously did incline hammer just really trying to get I think it develops overall chest not necessarily a flat benches I think is the best exercise but I think this really also hits the pecs in a full motion but I always just felt you know it keeps my shoulders back more a lot of the contraction so you see how to control a lot of the reps it's not just throwing the weight you get to feel the size. Come on. It's a pump right there. Amino pump for the whole workout. I feel one off. Good. Come on. with this. Come on. Nice. You love that one, huh? Yeah, cuz he pushing instead of pushing the traditional way. This will really allows you to really get that. You see how much blood, you know, even a retired guy his chest. You don't have that in Vegas, this machine, do you? Nah, they have the selectorized version, not the weights. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I still always think something with with free weights seems to be better motion range. The pro the thing is if you go deeper with this with the weight stacks, it's hard to get as deep of a stretch at the bottom. Always the peak contraction you can get. But yeah, this is really good. I mean, it's a favorite here. So, yeah. Holies, but goodies. Yeah. All the machines. I mean, it's changed. I know. You know, back in the day, I mean, I had a gym. I did barbell presses. I did, you know, dumbbell presses. I did it all. But it's like, you know, now I can just uh I just focus on doing a lot of different movements. You know, I don't want to make him look bad. He was doing seven. I'm going to go 80 next just to make remember that video we filmed at DPI with that guy and that girl? Yeah. Just what was that guy doing? He wants me to do CrossFit. Oh, yeah. Cross. All right. So, ideally cable crossover. What I'm trying to do is I'm really trying to bring it in and really just trying to keep the chest up and really get a contraction in the chest. And that's why you'll see when I come down the chest bumps up, really get that contraction. Good finishing movement, but also good isolation on the pecs to really get that squeeze. I still believe in pressing movements the most, but this is a great finisher really to get that that deep stretch and uh obviously work the detail in for the competitions when you get ready for a show. So, this will be the finishing exercise. So, uh, incline hammer, incline, uh, press. We did like a flat almost, uh, inner hand grip with this one. Uh, and then cable crossover is, uh, our final move. Four exercises. Uh, you know, we're getting our way back up. I'm trying to put on some size. I've added about 10 lbs, probably about 265 now, and, uh, working my way back up. So, by the time a lot of the fans see me at the Arnold, I'll be back at uh, you know, to some bigger standard. What's the What's the goal for the Arnold? We're uh like 7 weeks out, 6 weeks out. Yeah. You know what? I think I would love to be 280, but I say 275. Well, as I get fuller, I'm going to get leaner. So, it's illusion. I'm actually not going to get that much leaner, but more push to the muscle, as you can see. I mean, when I train, I fill up a lot. So, my arms stayed pretty big. Pretty good size. Yeah, it's just that I lost, you know, back in my shoulders, which I'm getting some fullness back. Everyone that seen me today said, "Wow, you're bigger than the last time." And uh, you know, that's the goal. But before the Arnold, we get the Fed Expo, I can Yeah. Which in a couple weeks. Yeah. So, I mean, I'm I'll be, you know, I'm eating consistently. Yeah. Yeah. I'm eating at least five meals a day right now, plus maybe a shake. So, that's kind of the goal. I think um, you know, I need to touch a little more upon the diet here in these videos. They can get some video of me cooking and while I'm doing that, you I'm still eating at Teriyaki Boy in Vegas is making the food for me and Eat to Grow still sending me all my meat. So yeah, I try to cook at home to be honest though. Everyone that knows me knows that I follow pretty strict diet regimen even offse and when I'm home and not traveling I really try to cook the meals and uh you know obviously Cutler Nutrition is going to keep me super busy. I'm doing a lot of the trade shows. cuz I added another Cutler show in Virginia this year. Wow. Which is in Richmond end of end of August. So is that eight? Uh it's I think it's I think it's eight. Seven or eight. I think you were at seven. And I'm looking at a couple international places. You know I'm not going to really? Wow. I'm trying to get not get excited about it, but I've got some interest internationally and you know hopefully eventually have a pro show at one of these things. That would be that'd be really cool. Yeah. My channel. Okay. I got I got It's great for stretching this thing. Can you squeeze a fifth one? Yeah, I cheated. I lied to everybody. No, you didn't. No, I just wanted to stretch. You know, as I'm getting bigger, I haven't got into back into therapy like I I used to do. I want to make sure that I stay kind of pliable and keep the fibers loose. And I really like doing all that uh all that stretching, you know? just allows me to, you know, open everything up because I know when I get under the heavy weights, like I only went up to like 100 pound presses on inclines. I mean, I was down to like doing 80s and uh struggling to get 12 in the climb I took down, but as I get higher, I I still feel a little a little weak in there. So, I want to make sure I stay pliable cuz I don't want to tear something as I get bigger. That's it, Jay. Yeah. So, we knocked out some chests and calves today here at the Mecca Bodybuilding, sunny, California. This is what it's like on January 21st. Nice. 2015. Can't beat that. I keep I keep writing my checks and I keep putting 14 on your checks. You never do that. Usually. Yeah. In January, usually it takes I know I know everyone watching is probably like, man, I do the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard to get used to like a new year. Yeah. So, all right. All right. Okay. Well, thanks for having us today, man. People you got to see see you and then and we'll shoot some more at the Fit Expo. So, come and see you, right? All the fans over there. Come and see me uh at the the Fit Expo LA. Uh 7th and 8th of February. And but before then, I'm in Montreal. So, you guys up in Canada. Oh, nice. I'll be up there uh doing an appearance on the 30th and the 31st before Super Bowl. It's going to be really cold. Yeah. I hope that