All right, guys. Welcome to another segment of Jay Cutler TV. Today we're at EOS Fitness here in Las Vegas. It's midFebruary and we're going to hit some shoulders today. Do some shoulders, knock it out. uh go for that pump. Remember, nothing crazy. Um and just try to get the best out of the workout. Uh shooting for a rep range from uh 10 to 12 repetitions and we're doing probably about 20 sets. So, come on and check it out. We're going to start with some pressing movements in the hammer strength reverse. All right. Okay. So, what we're trying to do now is we go for two warm-up sets. I hate to call I I I don't like to call them warm-up sets as much. More for feel sets and just try to get the blood in there, get the the exercise, get the the right positioning, but we're using the hammer strength. It's kind of like the rear shoulder press, but we're sitting reverse and using the core as more of a stability. Yes, it's harder. Um, if you guys have this machine in your gym, make sure you guys try this movement. Or, I mean, you guys that train at home or whatever, you know, those standing presses without using back support. I think that's ideal. You're going to put more tension on the shoulders, um, and take less of the legs and the hips out of pushing the weight. So, uh, we're going to do, you know, two warm-up sets or two feel sets and then three or four working sets and then start with our laterals and all the other stuff. So, Heat. Heat. All right. So, next exercise is going to be standing barbell press, which again I like to do with the core. And yes, it's harder. Um, you know, it takes a while to work up to the main weight. But listen, anyone can shoulder press, whether dumbbell, barbells, machines, whatever it is. But when you want to get to that heavy heavy core stuff and you guys trying to stimulate calories, trying to take off body fat, build muscle, you know, really just try to get your metabolism up. Remember, the core movements are going to be key for that. So, I stick to a lot of free weight movements. I don't have any shoulder pain even after 20 plus years of training. Um, even after the bicep tear, you know, I had that shoulder tie back into my shoulder. It's all good now. So, uh, this is probably my favorite exercise for shoulders. So, if you ask me anywhere about out and about where I'm at trade events or whatever, it's my sh favorite shoulder exercise for building mass, I'm going to say the barbell standing press. Make sure you guys try it out. Okay, 8, 10, 12 repetitions, whatever it is. Um, you know, I used to work up to 275 with this, but today we'll probably go up to 185. All right, so ideally, remember, no momentum and throw it up. So, I know a lot of you guys out there want to get the weight up in the air and they want to do it anyway. They can, but remember, solid base, good foot position, but don't don't be tossing the weight. Don't cheat. All right, guys. Third exercise is going to be the seated side lateral. And I like to do these seated a little better because, you know, it's a lot less body momentum, which I tend to have a lot when I train. um and a little more concentration. But as you see, I kind of bring these up a little differently. When I come up, it's almost like kind of like a front raise. So, I'm trying to hit like the front, the side, the rear, everything. Um but make sure when you come up, you don't come up too far, okay? Don't try to take the traps out of the movement. And yes, I do feel a little bit my traps, but ideally, you want to do what's focusing on the side. These are great for you guys that trying to put those calves on their shoulders, especially the competitive guys, and really just trying to get the shape out of them. So, same thing, 10 to 12 repetitions. Going to do three sets here. Okay, so fourth movement, we're going to do a front bar raise on an incline bench, which once again keeps the body in more of a fixed position. But with this exercise, you want to come up to about eye level. um really keep the tension on the delts and um you know really try to work the front area. I mean on an incline bench it's just a little more um a little more focus on the contraction. So as you we're going to work through 10 repetitions and uh just really try to get the most squeeze out of it. Come on now. Push. Good. Don't throw it. Arms are going to stay fairly straight. Okay. A little bend at the elbows, but fairly straight. So, you're really using the shoulders and not using the traps. So, it's Yeah, I've been training at this gym since 2002, since I moved here. Um, this is the EOS. Used to be Gold's Gym in Summerland. And, uh, you know, reminiscing on the years I did train for the Olympias. You know, this is kind of like my home gym. And, uh, it's up away from the strip about 20 minutes away. So, I was able to focus a little more. I would come in here mornings, nights, sometimes twice a day, three, four times a day. Um, you guys seen all my videos. I had at least one segment each video between uh J to Z. Um, new and improved and beyond, ripped to shreds. I I had this gym featured in there. Um and uh you know it brings back a lot of memories to be able to train here and uh you know a lot of the same the same members are still present even though the name has changed a lot of new faces. They've kind of changed the their membership rates and all that, but uh it's it's still cool to be able to come back and train and of course have my picture on the wall as part of the icon. Okay, guys. Fifth movement is going to be the rear delt fly. Now, with this, you'll notice that I'm not sitting in the seat. I'm kind of standing with a good bend at the knees. But more importantly, when I come up, I'm contracting. I'm kind of have a pause at the end. And I control all the way through. It's not just a quick motion. Okay? Very good for the tension on the rear delts. Very important for you guys in the quarter turns, especially at the shows where you're men's physique, bikini, bodybuilding, whatever it is, you have to have that rear delt development. So, this is one of the two exercises we'll do for rear delts, which is always in my routine. Two rear delt exercises. Okay. Um, same thing, 10 to 12 repetitions. Um remember contraction and get a little pause at the out part portion of this exercise. Okay. Six exercise, three sets each. It's going to be the rear cable fly. So, with this, we're kind of crossing the cables, taking a good stance, giving a good base, kind of like a a position where you can kind of lean back and squeeze the rear delts. It's a little tricky to do because you actually got to cross the cables in front, but this is one of my favorite exercise for the rear delts when I was training for all my Olympias. And uh really keeps a lot of tension if you really get that good stretch and you lean back, really get that contraction on the rear delt. So you guys make sure you try it. Anyone that has a cable crossover station can do this with the small handles and uh 10 12 repetitions. Heat. Heat. All right. So, 20 sets of shoulders just like that. Um, you know, like I said, the main objective here was to get the pump, you know, get get uh, you know, get some tension on the shoulders. Now, the routine may shift. I mean, I may vary the movements or depending on what gym I'm training at. As you guys see, a lot of these YouTube videos are filmed in different places. So, we're limited on what type of equipment and the brand of equipment we use. So, if I'm not just focused on dumbbell movements and more cables and machines, um the machines obviously differ. That's what's kind of nice about training in Las Vegas between all the different clubs. Um we can kind of change it up. But for you guys at home or without gym access that has all these different machines, remember stick to those free weights, barbells, dumbbells, um you know, bent over laterals, side laterals, dumbbell presses. I mean, all these things can be done at home just to simulate show. Just focus on the main things, the front delt, side, and the rear. and then a combination of all three heads because obviously you can't just solely take all the rest out and focus on one of those heads of the shoulder, the deltoid. So, make sure you know you just stay with a a steady routine. Um, switch it up week to week if it gets stale. But for me, I like to always kind of stay with the same type of movements. Um, just different variations. Um, and I may switch up the order sometimes, but you know, keep it simplified. That's the thing is is don't make it too crazy. Um, keep logging on for, you know, more videos, more tips. Um, you guys follow me along here on the YouTube channel, Jay Cutter TV, or, you know, follow my Instagram daily Snapchats, which we're putting up videos out every day. Um, but make sure you hit subscribe, tell your friends about it, and, uh, make sure you guys comment below. Thank you guys.