Okay, day my access. We're at the NSS uh nutritional sports supplement store in Pico River has sign. Oh, no. I mean if I wanted to buy what's up 29 bottle the whole crew here the whole fit expo crew reunited brought something usually before I also take um diet or energy supplements throughout the day. Okay. All right then. You want if I should do them together then? Yeah, definitely take a good How's it going you guys? Good, man. Good. How's the event, J? They taught me that training at Fit What is it called? Fit Nation. Fitness. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nor. And it's at Norwalk. Nice little gym. Sam owns training over there now. I I just shot Dan Decker there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We go I go up there at times with Sam. I don't know. Very friends with Sam, man. Yeah. Once in a while, Dan, Decker, and I, we all, you know, either train chess or legs together. So, he you guys came to see the demo today. Say hi to Jay. Yep. How long you been How long you been coming, you guys? How long have these guys been coming around? Years. 13 years. Since he did since you did the Max opening and then you did the video. No, that's 03. No, no, that's 2003 cuz I still got the picture with 03. I to I bought it in 04. Was it 04? 04. Yeah. It's funny cuz I was telling Tony about it how Dave used to be a big fat Oh, I can't I can't tape this. I didn't know you were taping. I'm sorry. Dave Dave's all rip now. He's competing. He's competing in Boston. two J cutters in a row and then and then he's going to do Lonnie Peeper show there sometimes. The only one I have anymore. Right. I could have stacked the two of those. But if you're looking Good protein. Proteins are all tasty. Strawberry is phenomenal. I use vanilla mostly. I mean, people like chocolate. All right, guys. Here we are at Gut Protein. We're doing a event signing for Cutler Nutrition. Uh, it is Saturday, May 9th, and there's a lot of events going around the country. Actually, there's a show in Las Vegas, New York Pros today. Here we are in California. So, it's uh it's good. We had a good fan. Uh, fan base that came out here today and they've been supporting uh the line of Cutler Nutrition products here which uh they've been having big discounts today on all the proteins and you know anything from uh test boosters the to the king the anabolic product to the dry which is really good big tea it's growing the vitamins yeah we have the new new vitacks which you know display everything that's in it we have everything from greens to fats to I can get some some energy G in there and all your all vitamins and and uh everything. So, we've been seeing you pretty much all over. I mean, you were in Fibo just recently. Uh FIBO. I go to Body Power next week. I'm in Brazil the end of the month. I was in Greece. Crazy. And the line's growing. We have the smart shakers here, the Jolor signature smart shakers, which those are getting a lot of uh a lot of buzz out there. So, the color scheme and worked with the the supplement line to match those. And I just want to thank everyone for coming out uh and supporting me at all the events. My fan base continues to grow at all ages. We saw a lot of different people here from the young kids to the older people and and uh it's pretty cool to be able to spend some time in LA, too. Um you know, just uh hit the gym last couple of days and and trying to stay in a good routine and stay in a good diet. Are you are you surprised that since you haven't competed since 2013 was your last show, are you surprised that you're probably more busy now than you were even before? Yeah, we're busy. Uh I think you know I think my popularity still stayed pretty uh relevant with obviously the branding and the social media. I think I'm out there a lot with the social media Instagrams and the Facebooks and and I I know they call me the legend, which I think is good and bad because it makes me feel a little old, but I guess it left my mark in in history. Uh so, you know, for me it's just getting out there, showing face and and really supporting the people that helped me get to where I got. And uh I'm I'm enjoying life. I mean, I'm I'm doing a lot of things I want to do. Everyone wishes I compete. Um, but you know, I keep telling everyone that there's no plans to do that. Well, you never have home more than like two days in a row. You're telling me I'm back in Vegas. I'm leaving again in two days. It's very You know, I'm I'm having a meal service now called Fit Fuel Direct. They're delivering all my foods to me now out of New York uh to Jersey and uh they've been helping me a lot out a lot um in between trips because, you know, it's really hard to go home from these trips and then I have no food. I have no groceries in my refrigerator. I mean, I live by myself. So it's like uh you know I have to run to the grocery store. I got to retro meat. So it really helps when I'm home for those two days. It's hard to go to the grocery store and shop and not have things prepared. It's it's when you're only going to be able to be home for a couple days. I don't want stuff to go bad or Yeah. You know, I'm in and out and sometimes I might not get home for a week. So I just want to be throwing out eggs and all that stuff. So, you know, Mac over at the uh Egg Whites has still been sending me uh you know, all my my big jugs and I want to thank him. And and you also have Teriyaki Boy. Yeah, Teriyaki Boy in Vegas. Everyone knows that the J Cutler Bowl there. They've been uh they've actually I go there mostly to get my food when I am at home and I'm, you know, I don't have meals from Fit Food Direct send me stuff. So, uh I'm finding ways around it. You know, I'm still staying on the great diet and still doing my thing. You still have all the same sponsors you had before. Some I had I had a lot I had a lot of um I had a lot of signature things that we work structured deals. So I had some ownership in certain things and she still and yeah still doing a belt line with chic and I'm working with you know fat grips that you know that wasn't even a contract that was just hey I want to you know have a signature line with you guys. Um, Smart Shake, of course. Uh, you know, BPI, Health Nutrition, you know, BPI is still my partner. They're they're expanding now. I mean, they just we just did the verification process with all the proteins where um we have testing now. It's not just a verified verification seal for Chromodex. So, everything is, you know, has a lot number and everything shows, you know, perfection as far as uh what what levels of protein are in there. If it says what it's on the back, it's on the label. It's it's what's inside. So, that's really important. There's no uh there's no shortcuts to having good quality protein now, which is important. A big deal to people. It is a big deal. And it didn't raise the price. That's the most important thing. Everyone says, "Well, how much is it going to cost now?" Yeah. And it's, you know, we kept uh the the brand loyalty of uh the cost, it's all the same. And and uh you know, the quality is is as good as we ever uh advertised. Um, you know, people believe in a lot of the products that the pro bodybuilders come out with or endorse. And the partnership's been phenomenal for me and and uh it's really helped me get a lot of that attention out there with, you know, different uh YouTube videos and and all the advertisement. Uh you guys see we're really pumping up that whole Chromodex thing. And you know, anyone that's not so sure about it, you know, watch our videos or actually look into what Chromodex really is because it does mean something. It's not just a seal that that we're slapping on and it needs nothing behind it that's back up to everything we do. And I think a lot of the other products and they're going to go through that process now uh with the with the testing and uh the verification. So what's next for you? The Jac Classic in Boston two weeks. Yep. Right. Yep. And the guy behind the camera is going to be uh competing. So pur coming is going to be there. We're going to have a good time. The muffin man will be there. And uh you know, we look forward to staying keeping you guys uh up to date with what's going on. So stay tuned and uh keep following guys and keep training hard. Thanks. That's what I said. I said make yourself look pretty. So this is the crew you guys. Mickey Flex, my son TJ. Hey TJ, say something. What's up guys? Big Mike over there. And of course Tory Flex, the legendary cutler guy. Get your shirts now. Get SW. That's right. That's right. monkey. Dave, how's it going, man? Doing amazing. You guys had a good day, Dave. Was it busy? Yeah. Nah, not really. Mini Dave right here. He He's like, "All right, this isn't bad." Because TJ actually worked the Fed Expo, which was like craziness compared to one of the OGs, the OG OG. Yeah. So, this is the this is the usual suspect. And it's pretty much always we always pretty much try to have the same crew, you know, guys that get along well together. And of course you see Cory uh you know all social media training at at Golds with Jay and Nikki and all this stuff. So CJ hasn't started training with us yet, but he's getting there. He's getting there. He's getting old enough. He actually insisted on coming today. I told him I said, "You know what? Jay's got an event in close to home. Um it's not going to really be work, but you know, uh Cory's going to be there. Mickey, you want to come?" And he insisted on coming today. He wanted to see you guys. So really, it's kind of cool. Yeah. So let me take a picture of the three of you guys. Yeah. the uh six six plus. Ready? One, two, three. I got it. All right. All right. Thanks you guys.