So, it's another day in paradise. Yes, it's my favorite day of the week. Guess what day that is. You guys follow YouTube. Today is leg day. And yesterday was back. And I always said I take a day off after doing back, but I have to get on a flight and fly out tomorrow. I see the hamstring girls. I'm going to start with about 130 lbs. Going to focus on 10 or 15 reps here, guys. I'm really just trying to get the blood flow in here. And the reason I do hamstrings first is I feel a lot of the power when you train legs always comes from your glutes and hamstrings. For some reason, when I I'm in a seated position, it seems to get that good stretch and then I come down and curl. where sometimes people like doing leg curls, one leg curls. Um, for me, I like the seated. I'm gonna up the weight a little bit. So, I'll go like 145. It's a little heavier weight. Two, three, four, five, eight. That's actually 13, guys. So, do a little extra just to warm up. I'm going to go up to about 170 on this. Of course, I always have to train in shorts. You guys train in long pants. It's kind of funny how that changes, but I always like changing shorts when I do legs so I can actually see how the blood flow is coming in. Some people like to mess with their heads a little bit. I don't have as much visual of the actual body part working, but for me, I like to be able to feel it, see it, you know, feel the pump, see the pump. You know how that goes. The gym's nice and quiet today. Beautiful day in Vegas. Looks looks no different than it did last week when I filmed uh my shoulder workout. All right, last set. So, what makes it a little easier when I do when I actually do count reps, which I always say I do and I don't, I actually count in sixes. So, 1 2 3 4 5 6 and then I knock out another six and that will help me get to 12 a lot easier. So, I'm sure you guys play a lot of mind games with yourselves sometimes. I just don't count 1 to 12 cuz it seems like 12 is so far away from one. I start to get that really good burn at six. I always said like when you count repetitions, you know, you want to feel a decent little burn at 8. By 10, you know, a good good burn and then by 12 you're like, you know what, I might be able to get two or three more, but I'm going to struggle probably to get that last one or two reps. So, that's kind of how I make the judgment on the repetitions. And when I don't count, I seem to always fall between the same rep ranges. I'm going to do one leg curl and we're going to use the Techno Gym leg curl machine. So, let's move over. All right. So, we're going to start with a plate and a quarter on this. Sorry, plate and a 10. So, you notice I'm kind of locking in and just trying to get that feel. So, I always talk about mind to muscle connection and how sometimes I'll pause and go up at 10. It's all right. Six. Sometimes I wonder why I love train legs so much. Oh man. I try to breathe. Try to breathe when I train, right? Sometimes you find yourself holding your breath a little bit to like only two more reps. Two more reps. But that's why I think I fell in love with training is the challenge, right? You know, wondering uh what each workout is going to bring. You ever go to the gym, like you're driving the gym and you're like, I I plan to have the best workout ever or you're like, man, I don't feel like training. Then you get in the gym and you get that rhythm and you're like, man, that was a great one. And I always judge the workouts by core strength and pump. I mean, those are the two things I kind of looked at. Wasn't like who's in the gym or well how loud the music was. It's always like, okay, what am I getting out of this workout? All right, guys. So, stiff leg deadlift. I'll probably cut myself out of this a little bit. So, I always say stiff leg. There's a little bend at the knee. I like to do dumbbells. This is my preference. You know, I think getting barbells, you know, getting a little heavy. You know, you guys see me do deadlifts for back, but stiff leg is I'm really just focus on the hamstrings, glutes. You're going to see that a little bit here. Okay. So, I'm going to start with uh about 65 lbs and just kind of go for that stretch. So, I use the line right here, this line in the floor, and uh 12 reps. There you go. Six. Now, could I do more reps? Of course. But I'm going to pyramid up a little bit in the next set. I'd love to show this. This is my This is my tripod. Being conscious of my surroundings. Want to see my other tripod? You guys saw it in the last video. There it is right there. Here's my tripod. So, I'll do three sets of these. 12 reps. So I did 65. Next six 75. All right. So 75, right? Halfway home. So I only allow myself the maximum these days to I only go up to 80. And the reason being is I don't really feel that's more more a benefit to uh going that much heavier if that makes sense. Like I said it's not always about the weight. It's about uh really just feeling getting the most out of the exercise. Like I said, I migrated to doing mostly dumbbells just for safety reasons. So, I feel like sometimes I go up to like 350 if I really wanted to. You know, that's kind of how I'm uh how I'm working it. So, we'll do one more set and then we'll move to the next one, which I think is lunges. I'm going to do walking lunges. So, I'll be able to show that from a distance. So, I don't know if you guys will be able to see it. I'll do my best. Okay. Here we go. Just to show you guys. 70 lbs. Okay. Hopefully you guys can see some of this. I'm gonna walk all the way down. So, at least like 10 10 steps a leg. This is great for your glutes and hams and everything else. Hopefully you guys could see me off in the distance. Killing it. All right, last piece right here. So, lion leg curls. I'm feeling these really good by the time I always my last movement 13. I think that was 13. So, my pump my pump right now is crazy. So, I'll roll into some quads after this. Pretty amped up now. So, halfway through the workout, quads are a little easier for me because like I said, genetics. I seem to always put more effort into hamstrings and keeping my body from getting that shovel ass. We're working it. All right. Everyone's favorite leg extensions. I always said this is not just a cutting movement. This actually a movement you can build a lot of mass. So I used to do these in the beginning and at the end of my workouts. But we're going to warm up our knees. So I have two plates on here. Just get that extension, get that blood flowing, especially in the upper away from the knee. I seem to have great development no matter what around the knee. I was always developed in my teardrops. But with these, I'm not even counting reps. I'm just kind of getting the feel. I'll do a couple sets of this weight and then I'll bump the weight up. I said I don't want to go too too heavy with this. This is more of a warm up uh protection of the knees. Kind of a pre-exhaust. We're going to go leg press after this. Probably inverted leg press, some sort of a squat. Kind of take it from there. That might be it actually just because I don't go crazy burning the legs down. I train legs last on Saturday and today is Thursday. So you can imagine the split and repeating body parts like I said every 5 to 7 days. Still the routine from the past. So 45 to 60 seconds between. Get that blood in here. Another set. Get that feel. We don't hear those metal plates clanking anymore. Remember us old school guys? We used to love that. Sometimes I go to those gyms where the metal plates are still a big part of that and you hear the clanking of the weights. You know that's like that's like the rhythm you hear, right? is the plates. It's a little heavier sets here. This will be the heaviest I go. So, I'll do three sets like this. So, sometimes if I want to hit the upper thighs, I'll actually point the toes out like this as I do the movement. And then obviously like this more you're going to hit more of the lower. But remember toes out as you're going through the movement is going to target those upper thighs. So when people talk about having upper thigh cuts, uh I still think genetically you're either limited or more advanced on developing more cuts. I think that diet is going to bring that out too. But you can uh definitely work some more detail in. I feel like a lot of guys could still use some more detail in that in that area. All right, so inverted leg press. Uh I'm going to start with a pretty good weight here. Two two plates and a quarter on each side. So there's our weight. So inverted. This is one of my favorites. Did this for the 09. Come back with honey. I've talked about it a million times. So you guys can kind of see my depth. I want you to really see what my depth is on there. Okay, sorry about the muffled mic. All right, feet are pretty much in the middle of this platform. There's my first set. Really feeling the quads, hamstrings, glutes. I love these. That's good with blood flow, too, cuz the blood goes up and down. Kind of lightheaded a little bit, not going to lie. So, I'll go up to three plates on each side. Three sets. I don't know how many reps that was. You guys tell me, but I always shoot for at least 12. And it's just a little different. A lot of gyms don't have this piece. This is AI think it's a Nebula piece, so it might be kind of old school, but AFS used to make a really good one back in the day. Still one of my favorite movements to do. I try to do this almost every workout. And hopefully you'll go to the leg press next. There was someone on it, so I couldn't do do that one next. And then we'll finish with some sort of squat. So, I just mentioned I'm almost done. Man, I'm getting actually kind of hungry. So, I felt like today was a little more lengthy just because I was trying to set up some camera shots. That's why I hate filming sometimes. But like I said, my goal was to give you guys a little more insight. The question is, do you like the vlogging style rather than having someone here filming me? the freedom rack. I just need some weight. This is how I developed the quad stomp. So, I'm going to start with a plate here. See how this feels. So, regular squat. Now, why do I do this rather than free weight? I don't know. Just cuz it's new. eight. So, eight reps. I'm not going to lie, I squat for my ass. So, everyone knows I see all these people doing all these butt exercises and we never did that in the day. We just squatted, we deadlifted, we did walking lunges. We never really had to crazy isolate the glutes. They just came about with hard training. So, let me get a different angle. Do one more set of this weight and see how this feels. Probably go up a little bit. My legs are dead. So, this is a good finishing movement. You notice that pause right there? Yeah. Quad stomping all of a kilo club. No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones go sexy on you. I script, I roll the dice.