 crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses crosses Yeah, we have a lot of action going on on our street right now. Yeah. People don't even mind the leaf blowers. They actually like them whenever they're there. They like the interruptions? They used to bitch before, but... Think so? Yeah. I'm going to pull weeds while I walk, you know. So you had a big week. Tell me about the Arnold, man. I think it was the most crowded one ever. That's what they say. Beat records. Yeah, Young LA brought a lot of people in, man. They had a crazy booth. I saw that. And they had a lot of athletes there. Wow. A lot of influencers. Me, Lee Priest, Phil. They had the Diamond Gym crew. You know, that guy Unk? He's training people over there. Have you seen all the Diamond Gym stuff? No. There's this guy, Hardy. And this guy, they kind of take people through these crazy workouts and stuff. Oh, okay. So it's like a popular gym in New Jersey. Oh, okay. You know, old school gym. Yes. Kind of like one of those throwback. Yes. You know, kind of the hardcore stuff comes back, right? People miss that hardcore bodybuilding nature. Because people just don't, you know, they're all machines and all show now. You know what I mean? So, you know, fitness is a big realm of people now. Not everyone's a hardcore bodybuilding. People need to take that into account. You know, people just want to train for general health. Not to get huge. You know, the huge thing kind of, I feel it kind of subsided. It was always a pushback to like, yeah, I don't want to be too big. Yeah. And then they started rewarding the bigger guys. And then you saw like people started to get excited when, like when Dexter beat me. And, oh, is it going to go back to aesthetics? You know, they always talk about the golden era and Zane. Yeah. You know, the early days, Serge Oubre. Librata. Yeah, all the guys. So, I mean, you know, it's just, I mean, look at Nick Walker, how good he looked at the show, right? He did. He looked incredible. He couldn't have looked any better, you know? He did it all by himself. Yeah. No coach. So. That's impressive. They're finally working on this house over here. Yeah. So it was bought in someone's building? It was bought. If you remember, the lot was for sale. Yeah, for an old time. I think someone's building a spec home on it to sell it. What's a spec home? This house is for sale. The house, just, they're going to put up to market. Oh, okay. They're going to build it and then sell it. Okay. So. Yeah, so the show was great. We had Brandon Hendrickson and Amy Delgado on the podcast the other day. I saw that. They won their division. Yeah. So we'll be airing that here at the beginning of next week. We did a breakdown of the show, kind of talked about Andrew Jack. I mean, what can we say about Andrew? I mean, he's been the guy we've been talking about for years. I mean. He's been coming for a long time, yeah. Yeah. So he kind of got his due, but $750,000. That's a big. Big money. That's big money. You know, Martin looked good. Obviously, there was some, you know, some different thought processes on that. He seems to be in a better place. I know he's heading to the U.K. to compete. Hottie looked amazing. Okay, good. You know, Hottie just wasn't, I don't think he was his best, but. No. Even his, even his, not his best is always great. Because he's so good. He's so good. But all the guys look good, man. Yeah. The team looked good. And, I mean, everybody. I mean, there were so many good guys. Rafa looked decent, you know. Yeah. He just didn't, he just needs more size, Rafa. He did put some size this year on, though. You think, yeah? Yeah. I think so. Have you seen him since? No. You're not training down that way as much? No. He's probably taking time off anyway. Come on, come on. I'm sure. He needs it. You know, I always loved after those shows. If you remember, you know, after that show, it was like I had that, okay, I just won an Arnold. Of course. I was like disappointed every year at the Olympia because, you know, I was finishing second. But to go win that show and to be solidified as like the second best body in the world and the second biggest contest. Which, you know, I think the Arnold now, I mean, it's a bigger show to me. I don't know. Of course. When you're an open guy and you're in the top three. Yeah. I think looking at the prize money, I mean, even second paid more than the Olympia. $2.50, man. Yeah, I mean, Olympia paid $200 this past year. Really? Yep. They shortened the money a little bit from the year prior. Oh, then they were up to $400. No, they paid $250 the year before. Oh. And Hottie got $200 last year. They went from $600 to $200. Oh, shit. Yeah, and they took the money and I think they put more into Classic. I didn't know that. Yeah, Classic got bumped to like $100 for first, but. Okay. And even Wesley Vissers won $100 at the Arnold. Yeah. He won as much as the Olympia paid. He looked great. So for the winners, it's great. You know, obviously it's an invitational and Olympia is under a lot of stress because they have to bring a lot of qualifying people in. And, you know, people with some of those divisions, 70 people. It's a lot of people. You know, Jake makes a great effort there, but it's kind of, his hands are kind of tied because the budget just to bring people in and, you know, it's not an invitational, you know, and it has to cover all those expenses. I mean. It's a fortune. It's got to cost them for a thing. So the show needs to produce that much more money. And the expo is, I mean, anyone that attended this Arnold Expo, I mean, they couldn't even move in there. It was really crazy. Wow. So, but all in all, it was a great show. You know, another history in the making, because I spent some time with Arnold, obviously these people, they treat me so well, but they're Brian Powers. They love you, huh? Yeah. It's just, it's just not, like, they love bodybuilding, you know what I mean? Yeah. They give a lot of respect to the, they brought us all on stage. I saw that. I mean, it's so respectful what they do. Yeah. And I think that's great. Yeah. So, you know, and they brought, a lot of the guys came out. Dexter got the lifetime achievement. Yeah. He gave a great speech. Well deserved. Yeah. He needed to have one. It's amazing to see even Dexter, like, when he was in his late 40s and early 50s, bro, and to see, like, how much he's downsized now, and he still looks really good. Yeah. Dude, I look back at, like, even some of the videos, I see him walking around Gold's Venice, how big he was. I know. Do you remember when he started? He wasn't that big, man. No. He won as a light heavy, I think. He won the light heavies. Yeah. But the truth is, is he, he started as a bantam. Yeah. He did all the classes. She's waiting for her friend. Yeah. Oh. She's waiting. I thought only Capone was doing that. No, she learned now. Ha, ha, ha. She's looking. She's looking. No, no one's there. Okay. He's not there. Come on. Call him. She wants to, well, she's barking at the. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He, uh, he started as a bantam. He did all the classes. I think he won the Southern States as, like, a bantamweight or something. That's funny. Do you remember when the Southern States was, like, a big show that people talked about? Yeah. Yeah. Do you remember you used to see all the, it was kind of like the Mr. California, and. That's right. I felt Mr. California had so many. Oh. Big names. Everyone who won that. Was a good pro, right? Yes. Seemed like it. I mean, a few didn't get a pro card. No. I'm thinking Edgar Fletcher, man. He won it. He didn't get the pro card. But there's so many guys that won a lot of these, these big shows that. Do you remember George Betancourt? Yes, of course. The Teenage Wonder? Of course. He had a sub-owned company for a while. Yes, he did. Yeah. But what amazes me is that, like, we have all these names in our head, like, people that we followed that inspired us. I mean, Matt Mendenhall, right? Yeah. I mean, he was, like, Lee Haney's, he was battling with Lee back then. Come on, come on. Lee likes him. He praises him a lot. Who? Lee Haney. Lee Haney. Yeah, yeah, he does, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, uh. Wow. So, you're going to England? Going to UK for the Arnolds. When is that? A couple weeks? It is the last weekend of March. Okay. And then I have the Cutler Classic the next week. That's right. Which we need to get on. I can't wait. So. He's ready. Well, what we'll do is we'll wrap up here, but let's finish inside. Okay. I already took her for a walk this morning, guys. Two walks she gets. She got two walks. She has a lot of energy. Come on, come on. Okay, hold on. What do you got? I got it. So, if you guys didn't know, that was Nick's. That was when they come here. You want to say hi? Yeah. Okay, come here. Oh, she talks. She talks. Come here. So, that's our new puppy. Hi, mama. She'll be one year old on the 19th. Really? Already? Yeah. Yeah. March 19th, her birthday. Time flies. So, we're going to celebrate, which I think we'll actually, we may be out in California that weekend, but. What? You going to tell them? You going to tell them? She barked with me today. Like, she didn't like me. She's got a good attitude. So, anyway. Yeah. So, we have the fourth Cutler Classic here in Vegas. We do the next one in May 2nd, but we have FIBO in between the 18th. You're going to be busy. Yeah. It just rolls. You remember how it was season to season? I know, but I thought things were going to slow down for you at some point. Well, I feel they have a lot, actually. They were really doing well. I mean, the drink's supposed to launch here this month. Oh, great. Amino 5. And then. I can't wait to try that. And then we have, you know, we're just doing really well right now. Yeah. That's awesome. Yeah, dude. I think you're, if I look back now versus, like, when you were champion, you're in 06, that really took off in 06. Like, you were so busy. And I remember at the time me and Carrie were talking. She was like, oh, hopefully, you know, he doesn't have to work as much. It was the opposite. And then. Here we are. Here we are. I don't feel like you're working that much less now. I think that. 20 years later. You're probably not taking as much gig on purpose. Yeah. Because, you know, I think that's what it is. Because if you didn't pay attention, you'd work every weekend. You'd be gone every weekend. Yeah. That's your life. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. It's a blessing, right? It is. You kind of dream about having a lifestyle. I mean, do you remember back in the day when you just got started and what are you who you are? Could you imagine? Yeah. You know what I was saying? I was saying to Angie. We were talking because life gets, like, we sit down at night and when we actually can communicate, which sometimes the days are so long, like, I'm at the office or I'm on calls and then she's off doing whatever. And she's obviously here working, doing the stuff for the business. But, or she was, like, she's at the office the other day. But we sit down and we just, we sit and I'm like, life is so fast. It is. Because by the time we get home and it's, like, 730 and we're looking at, like, looking at each other, like, should we, like, go to bed soon? Or, because some days you're, like, super tired. And, like, I'm kind of, like, I usually, like, last night we stayed up late until, like, midnight. She went out, she had dinner with the girls last night. But, you know, with all we have going on, like, you know, we're ready to start the next phase, the remodel for all this space in the backyard and all that. It's just, it never stops. Yeah. Do you miss the time where all you did was train and eat and sleep? No. I like this side better. Okay. Most bodybuilders, like, they like that. But I got bored, you know. Really? I like a lot of movement. I like a lot of, yeah. And when you have to sit idle and, if you remember, I trained for the shows and I wouldn't travel and I wouldn't, I wouldn't kind of put a lot of business to the side. Yes, yes. And I think that affects a lot. But you feel more accomplished when, like, when you're building your brand. And I felt like, you know, the competitions I was building it, but now with the ability of, like, the social media and the e-commerce and the internet, pretty much we're in the, like, deeper phases of that. Yeah. I think it allows you to have more expansive mindset and kind of challenges through the day. Because, remember, you know, I have a choice now. I can, like, I look at every facet of business and say, you know, do I want to mess with the real estate or, like, the TRT business or supplements or the food business? And, I mean, there's so many, right? I mean, we're still working with so many different brands. And, you know, we're working on the podcast and, like, okay, what are we going to do for reels this week and put out on social media and, you know, kind of create a buzz. And, you know, as you build up, you know, show to show and seeing all the new faces come in and compete, it's pretty awesome to see that, you know? I mean, just your social media and what you do on the internet. Yeah. It's a full-time job. Yeah, but all the guys, they handle all that for me, you know? Like, I have a good team. You know that. Yeah. You need it. It allows me to have the freedom because sometimes it's really hard to balance. Like, I kind of go through a checklist, you know, I went through this morning. Okay, what do I have that I need to check off for the week? Yeah. I'm to the point now where I have weekly checks where I used to try to knock stuff out on a daily basis. But now I have, okay, I need to finish this by Friday. Okay. I thought about it on the weekend. So normally I'll go through on the weekend, which, you know, Sundays I try to almost treat it like a Monday at this point. Okay. And just try to be like, okay, there's no days off. I mean. I know. Not for you. We'll do lunch tomorrow. You know. I mean, I'll go to the gym and, like, I still have that mindset. Like, I miss going to the office on those days because it's like just to put my work in front of everything. But I know that sometimes you have to have a little bit of an off and spend some time. And, you know, this weekend I think we'll try to, I'll try to take Angie and do some stuff. Good. And then, like I said, next week is the equipment show in San Diego. So we'll probably head out there and have a couple meetings. And then, you know, probably try to hit some count since we're out there. Try to do something in California. Enjoy it. We'll bring the scooters. You know, we got the scooters. In a truck? Yeah, we'll bring them out. Yeah. Okay. Because they fold down, you know. So we'll bring the. Oh, they do? Okay. And they just charge, you know. They go 70 miles each one. So we used to rent bikes, you know. But what we'll do is we'll take those and we'll just cruise down to the beach. Those are nice. You like to do that. They get 35 miles an hour, you know. Wow. Yeah. You would rent that whenever you go to the house. So we'll have the backpacks for the dogs and that nice cool breeze. You know what I mean? I would love to film that. That'd be great. Yeah, yeah. But when you put the backpacks on, instead of putting them in the back, we put them in the front. Yes. And we keep their, like. So they can see them. So they can see out, you know. I would love to see that on film. All right, champ. Well, thanks for today. I'm glad that we got to connect. Yeah, people have been asking. I had a lot of people at the Arnold's like, hey, I love your jaywalk. Yeah. They still like it. What's going on? So guys, phase two for the construction will be happening. And I'll share that a little bit as we go through it, I think. Which is going to be this room. So that whole wall right there is coming out. Wow. That's going to be flat. Huge TV. I can't imagine. Linear fireplace. What's a linear fireplace? Like this way. It's a. Oh, I see. So there's going to be a massive TV. That wall is going to be flat. All this is all wood floors. This is getting. Something's getting done with here. All the lighting is going to be different. This whole big piece right here is going to be changed. Okay. The wood is going to be a different color. The pool is going to be absolutely crazy. I'll show the designs. Oh, wow. So. Exciting. Yep. So for the next time, let me know what you guys think about the Arnold. If you get to see me, thank you guys for coming out. So make sure you guys check out the new TRT Kingdom website. Also click through. Hopefully the link below should get you there. If you guys need blood work, you need hormones. Guys checked everything. Just let me know. I'd love to give you a free consult. And keep killing it. All right. Stay strong. So. Thank you.