and then you can exit Mission Mission Boulevard and then you're there. Okay, we'll we'll find it. We're We're exit 23, so we'll figure it out. I'll see you in a minute here. Bye. So Eric's giving me directions to get to this place. So it's almost 6:00. We're on our way to the the Junior California that I'm guest posing at tonight. 14 weeks from the Mr. Olympia competition. So I go home and I start getting serious about getting my meals in, training. So this will be my last guest posing before I actually start my real diet. I have to do a couple more appearances, three more appearances before the contest though. But this is my last real official guest post. Yeah. What's up, guys? How are you guys? Video recording. This is the new one. That's the new one. I've been impersonating Jake for since I was about three. And right now we're I'm about to tell you how much I follow this guy I am. He's he's really nice. He he really come gets out of his way to say hi and hang out with his fans and stuff. supposed to borrow you guys. There's this which car just pumps out. It's exactly what you used. Okay. Well, it didn't work because Yeah. He's he's the J first. You going to use him instead of Forest today? Yeah. Remember that? Yep. What about for Oh, there's another guy that he knows. He did it with me one year. That was a JZ video. Was it? Yeah. You say, "Oh, not this guy." They call you little Jam. Little J. Give me a pose, baby. That's funny. Got the teeth and everything. I got teeth. You want to be ready in five minutes? Yeah. All right. I'll be ready. Okay. You ready? Yeah. What pose are you going to hit first? Give it to him, man. Run double first. Right here. You know the host. You know the skill. How you going to work your breath? Make sure you walk up there a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You got to step it like this. You got to do the little step. You know the little step. Yeah. Falling off. But I say this guy's going to retain his crown. Yeah, let's get him going here. Let's get a big junior countation to Jler. Let's bring him out one more time after a protein. Jer Heat. Heat. Heat. Young Jay Butler, introduce yourself. You are in real life. In real life, you are Trevor Huck. Where do you live, Trevor? Are you the biggest Jay Cobbler fan who ever lived? Yep. I was actually eating some Albert. You told me it was across the street. Lonnie, how do you we actually uh I said, "Man, you know, I need food at the show." He's closing in and across the street. So, yeah. I you know, he Jay gives me a break on the prices to guest post. You know, he he's been there every year for me and he told me several years ago, I will always be there for you as your guest poster. Wincy Olympia, a lot of people wouldn't hold on that. This guy is never redeemed. video every year. Thank you. Thank you guys very much. I appreciate all the support of course fans coming out. I'm going to be out in the lobby when I finish up. I got free autographs there for you guys that didn't get any earlier. And of course, uh you guys want to take your pictures. But this is why I come here for you guys. And I want you guys to know bodybuilding has given me a whole life. I've learned so much traveling around the world becoming the ambassador of bodybuilding and through the the time and time again win losses frustrations we all can't be winners every single time and I proved that even last year you guys are all champions all these competitors congratulations to the families that made this happen and friends thank you ladies and gentlemen Classic.