You're about to get smart. I'm about to get very smart. Hey, this is Brad. It's uh Val's shirt. Yeah. Awesome. So, if you guys are in Toronto, you need your car detailed. The muscle muscle mouse. Yeah. Shout out to our buddy far. Okay. Come on, Kapone. Our buddy Valzing over there. Come on. Come on, Daisy. Is Daisy coming, too? Daisy's going to be Daisy's. Look at how See how excited she is. She doesn't want me to leave her. I know. So, I'm going to take them for a quick walk down the street. It's going to be part of our jaywalking today. She's got uh separation anxiety. Yeah. Woohoo. Nice. She won't. It's not windy at least today. No. No. Is it cold though? A little bit, but not bad. Just how it is near in your house. Yeah, it's about it's about right. Look at that. Look at that. So, I haven't I haven't jaywalked. I did yesterday a little bit with taking the dog. Come on. See what happens when I go down. Should walk a little bit. Come on. People ask me, you know, they see the they see the Instagram stories. Hey, don't go too far. Uh, come here. Come here. Cuz there's a car coming. Come here. Come here. They see the Instagram stories and they're like they're like, "How do you keep the dogs from running away?" Hey, you know how most dogs won't won't stay, right? Yeah. So, they attach to you, those dogs. They're just they won't leave your side. Well, they travel with you all the time, too. They're very very uh they do a good job. Yeah, it works. It works in their service. Yeah. Daisy is not going anywhere. Capone's more. You know what's funny is Daisy's the one that took off down the street, though. I know. That was weird. Which we were kind of surprised that she did that. You weren't. You weren't here though. Yeah, I wasn't here. Maybe she wasn't. She was She went looking for you. She's like, "Where's J?" Angie always yells at me that she needs to walk because I guess the Yorky's their legs get bad. You know, the back legs. Oh, sometimes they get locked. I got to pull her legs a little bit. Really? Okay. Come on. So, every morning now I try to take them for like a half walk. Yeah. Just to get them outside. Yeah. Yeah. Couldn't imagine meeting a dog and sit in the house all day. I know they're they're going to Columbus with you, you told me. Yeah, they'll be in Columbus. That's awesome. I don't think I'll bring them to the actual No, no, it's too many people. But people will be asking for them. You know that they're they're famous. Yeah. It's been a minute since we did jaywalking. I know. It's been forever. We didn't even do it last time in Good boy. At the Fit Expo. We didn't We didn't have time. You're too cold in Vegas. I think it's okay with the jacket. I think the weather's actually starting to break a little bit now. Yeah. Finally. By March, we start hitting the warm weather here. So, yeah. My question, what's the Arnold going to be like? I think it'll be cold. That's a big question mark. You mean weatherwise? Dude, I've been there when it's been like summer. I talked to someone there. They told me it was 70° in January. There was a day in January 70°. Well, that's a fluke. Yeah. It's just crazy how much it's kind of changed, you know. Yeah. I'm looking forward to some cold weather and maybe some snow. Actually, I don't even care. No, we we don't want snow. No. No. It's going to hold up everything. Remember last year it snowed when we flew in. We did that appearance. Yes. So, I'll be at Bullfrog Nutrition on Thursday night. Yeah. Uh we land and go. It's like 5 to 8 is the event. So, we'll be there uh at Bullfrog Nutrition Columbus. So, if you guys are getting into Columbus early and you want to come check out me, I know I talked to guy this morning. Guy called me. Oh, nice. And he said he'll be there and I'm sure there'll be a bunch of other people. John Meadows and it was pretty big last last year. It was a big event. Yeah. And I'm looking forward to it. I mean, it's uh it's always good to go to Columbus. We we kind of go on our own now. We don't I don't have a booth there. So, I'm going to be hanging out at Atomics a little bit and then uh we'll be uh I think I'll stop over Alpha Prime for clothing a little bit. Yeah. But yes, I did want to shout out to Val at uh his Auto Spa. You know, I'm trying to I'm trying to actually book some events in Toronto right now. Oh, yeah. So, you Canadian people, I am working on getting up there for sure. Well, going the going in the spring, right? Yeah, dude. No, I'm going to go uh they want to look for March. March, April is not bad. Yeah, after the Arnold. Yeah, like the next weekend or the weekend after. Okay. Still a little cold. That's what I'm kind of looking at right now. Yeah. We'll see what happens. You always come when they're blowing the leaves. I know, dude. I was just telling you this morning. Usually I come on Monday and today is Thursday. I'm like, "Hey, we're good. We're not going to have to deal with the leaf blower." And they're here. What the hell? This is the private leaf leaf blower. which is like an individual home. So, I've actually I looked at a couple homes this week. I don't know if I told you that here. It's actually I looked a little bit like out towards like California a little bit like uh off the strip right there. Oh, okay. And I looked at these Tesla homes which are like solar powered. Oh, [\h__\h] Yeah. Pretty crazy. I didn't know that existed. Yeah. I'm just getting kind of a feel, you know, I talk about this. I'm I'm going to do AI'm going to do like a when I'm really buckling down to start really planning, I'm going to do like a house tour. A house house hunting series. Yeah. Like a series on, you know, doing the house. That'd be interesting. See what people uh see what their reactions are, you know. Yeah. And what uh get get people's opinion on which house they like, you know. Yeah. You know, Vegas has its own kind of style of homes. Yeah. So, it's not like you're going to have Everyone's opinion is going to be I know. It's funny though when I look at homes, bro. Like, everyone now is into this contemporary modern thing. And I still have that New England uh taste a little bit. There was this house I almost bought. I don't if I ever told you this, but before I won the Mr. Olympia, uh you know, I built a house in Utah, number one. I was going to move to to Salt Lake. I remember that. Up on the hill. I bought that in 2005. But I actually had a house that I was looking at. It was in Boilston, Massachusetts. So, shout out to you Massachusetts people. And uh, you know, Carrie and I were going to move back home. Oh my god. And you know, moving to this crazy house, but then you know, as I was training for the Olympia, you know, I end up winning the Olympia and then I built this house. You know, I can't I can't imagine you moving back. You know, I missed my dad at the time. my dad was coming back and forth and okay you know my family and you know remember that's around the time we talked about maybe starting a family or whatever you know it came that around that time you know she had she had miscarried that year if you remember I remember and uh I started to think okay what where am I heading with this and then of course I win the Olympia and then it goes haywire so remember when Dave Enders talked me into buying the the forest cayenne had. We took pictures and everything. Oh my god. Where did we take the pictures? At his con at his at his at his home in Newport. House in Venice at that point. Uh, no. He was in Orange County. We picked up in Orange County. Remember? Yeah. Newport Coast. That No, I thought it was at his house. No. Didn't he have a house in Venice like in Marina? He did, but I remember specifically going to Orange County to pick up that car. I think he had just moved at the time. But was he in a a condo or a big house? No, big house in Newport Coast. We had brought Scrappy and remember we took a nice pictures with you holding Scrappy the sunset and stuff. Damn. I wish I could pick find that picture. Dude, that was a great picture. I wish we could take video back then. That would have been awesome video, you know, but we didn't at the time. Yeah, I wanted that that that vehicle so bad, bro. Yeah, I remember picking up. I bought it and I was living here at the time. Yep. I remember I had all these cars. I remember I had to park like sideways. That was a sick car. Matt used to laugh. He like, "Oh, Jay's bored. went out and bought another car. You know, you used to bend the rims all the time on that car. I remember I came home where your car is parked right now and uh I went to go move the car and it had a flat tire and I remember, dude, it looked like like Carrie had taken the 7 series and I had those crazy rims on it. Yeah. And I remember, you know, it looked like she drove literally drove over a curb as fast as she could. That's how bent the rim was. And she's like, I didn't feel anything. Girls should not be allowed to drive nice cars. for you guys that your wives or your girlfriends or whatever bang up your rims, man. How many rim problems do I have? Dude, still today. Yeah, I know. The problem is I have all these cars and it's never them. Market wheels, man. It's always something, you know. It's never them. It's what, you know, I had my first car when I was 14. I did mention that, right? The Toyota Corolla. Yeah. But I bought this sports car in high school. It was a Mazda RX7. I thought that was a [\h__\h] man. Now I look at those cars on the road. I'm like, the thing is so tiny. How did I ever fit in that thing and I remember I used to I was like the cool kid driving to school every day. That was like my dream. I remember seeing it sitting at the car dealership and I'm like, man, I want to buy this thing. And I think I don't know what I paid. Did you buy it used? Yeah, I bought it used, but I don't know what year it was. 80 was 80 something, I think. Yeah, they were. It was like had a brand new paint job and it was all done and I put like a boom box a speaker box in the back. Oh jeez. So I had the speaker and then I bought the Jeep later, you know. I had this Jeep and then I put the boom box in the Jeep. You're totally flexered out. But it was so that's how Massachusetts was though is that like you looked forward to the summer so much. You're like, "Okay, what can I what can I get to enjoy the summer?" Like what what's better than a Jeep? Take the top off. You cruise to the beach. I remember we used to go to Hampton Beach and we'd cruise around the strip and like you'd be able to have the top down. Of course, I was all jacked, you know. I used to buy these posing trunks from Andreas Calling. Remember Andreas? Of course. Yeah. So, I used to buy my trunks and I would buy the fluorescent pink and pink and the fluorescent yellow ones. That's what what I posed in if you look back at my Teen National pictures. Yeah. But I used to actually wear those when I went to the beach. I'd lay out. What did Carrie say? She didn't give a [\h__\h] I mean, you you would do that today. Chicks would go nuts, dude. They would Oh my god. I I don't think you look for, right? So you foreign people like that's just common. You guys wear like the bikini bottoms, but Yeah. Yeah. I used to lay out because I wanted to get a solid tan, right? Right. And that was the cool thing to do. There was a section like where all the guys kind of wore their opposing trunks kind of the bodybuilding section. And the [\h__\h] that we did, man, is just it's crazy, right? Yeah. Today it's like a big no no to wear. Can you imagine wearing somewhere in Vegas at the pool party wearing that? They do. It's like they do. Yeah. Oh, good. It's kind of like AI mean, a lot of guys wear the bikini bottoms, especially if they're foreign. But yeah, I don't think um a lot of chicks would think that's No, they don't think that's hot much. You know what I mean? But I remember it was it was like it was yesterday and that was like halfway to Chris Aceto like I he would I used to drive by there in order to go to his place. Okay. And uh No, that was funny. Good old days. Good old days in Massachusetts. Damn. You you say you were looking at some uh listing in uh California recently. You told me also some guys you're still getting some listings from I'm getting a lot of places still in Marina um where I used to have the old condo, you know, I got a bunch of listings from there, but the unfortunately there's some there's some sort of like tax or whatever that stays there. Oh, really? So, it doesn't have the resale value really. So, he sent me some stuff on Glen Co. Uh Oh, yeah. Amazing what [\h__\h] sells for though over there. So expensive, man. Should have bought 20 years ago. Mh. Yeah. But I never thought I'd actually be in California. Probably back then, you know. Yeah. When someone asked me the other day when I was in San Diego this past weekend, they said, "How long you've been in Vegas?" And I Dude, I had to think about it. 18 years. Oh, two. Yeah. 18 years I've been here, bro. Crazy. Doesn't seem that long when you don't think about it. Yeah. I moved to California in 99. So that's over 20 years. I've been on the West Coast. You definitely lose that. You lose that, you know, Massachusetts slang pretty much. But it California is still I mean I go there and besides the traffic, it's I know. It's awesome, you know. How's Golden Gym Venice been lately? Um it's good. It's not uh overly crowded or busy, but I'm assuming uh the last couple weeks before the Arnold, probably a lot of people will go right before right after. They kind of do a pit stop a lot of time, but uh who else did I see from out of town that's not there, you know. Um Ashie's doing the show. I know he should have been because he won it last year, remember? So, technically he was qualified already. So, Morgan is doing it. I was hoping he would come by Venice first, but no, I think he's going to go straight. You're going to see him in Ohio. You need to get a like a shot of him. Of course. Of course. That's the big um Just for you guys that don't know Yeah. He's massive. He won the amateur last year. Yeah. He's probably like close to 300 on stage. Yes. A lot of interviews that that'll be kind of cool. Yeah. Who do you guys want to see us interview? They haven't got on. I know. We still got to get the Shawn Ray interview still. I know. Leone. I still want to get Do you think we could do the Arnold or is it going to be too crazy? Uh we can get him in a place. I mean, yeah, it's noisy. The problem is when we interview people like you know he actually mentioned coming to Vegas and doing it. Oh yeah. But you know he's going to be out for my show you know for the Cutler event. Yeah. Maybe we can do it then. Yeah you know which is in a few it's in uh 9 weeks 8 weeks or whatever. So yeah it'll come fast. But listen supplement line's doing awesome for you guys that are purchasing the products. Uh we do have Valentine's Day sale 25%. And I don't know when this video is going to launch, but soon. I want to say I want to say something about the line though. I got to I got to mention this cuz everybody is those commercials. Yeah. That you've been doing. People are loving them. How they're like you just wing this. Just wing it. People are like, I never knew J was so funny. Come up with a thing and I just say, okay, this is what we're going to do. And then we get a little uh we we throw in a little bit tidbits of like, you know, like Jac kind of footstep video guy shoots it. Yeah, he's like, "Hey, why don't you do this or that?" That's awesome. You got to keep making the new Sour Series, guys. I did the uh Generate this morning, which just launched like two weeks ago. That's the amino central aminos. Unbelievable taste. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. You know, new protein launches next week. Uh the chocolate. Are we behind? I thought you said end of January on that. Yeah. It's just, you know, production, bro. Okay. you know, holidays and I couldn't wait for that to come out. Yeah. Uh, perfection. Everything's perfected. Yeah. So, thank you guys always for the support with that. A lot of good stuff happening. But listen, there's a lot of brands out there. Lot of brands you can choose from. I hopefully you guys will get chance to uh to do mine. You know, if you get on the email list, we do deals for everyone. So, make sure you watch uh jcuddler.com, colornutrition.com, whatever. Yeah. And get on the email list. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Become an email member. And just for that, we're going to run the sour commercial in front of this video. So, make sure this sour I have to remember that. Okay. I just posted it this morning or on the front of Sergio's video. Until until next time. We're subscribe if you're not subscribed and we'll keep killing it up. All right.