 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx that she's gonna be jealous because she enjoys walking more than he does. Nick's does. Yeah. Oh, wow. Everyone keeps asking where Capone is and I hadn't been showing him in a few of the J-Walks because usually by the time you get here I had walked them in the morning. Yeah. But we've been trying to get together the last couple days. I know. The schedules just haven't aligned. I just came back from a week-long trip in Boston. It's funny, I got to train out at Jim Hub and Nate was super proud because when I hit him up a week before he had got a couple new piece of equipment. He got this mega-mass linear roll. Have you used that before? Yeah, we have it. That's a dragon. Okay, and then he got the Flex leverage pulldown, the wide grip pulldown, you know the one with the plates going the back. That's an old machine. Yeah, it used to be at World Jim. World Jim, they sent it to me at World Jim in Lake Forest when I was training there. That's old school. When they first launched the leverage pieces. Wow, that's old school. Yeah. We might be a little slower today because it's just sniffing around. Look how cute he is. Let me show him. Show yourself Capone. Look at that. Capone's 13 guys, so if you guys didn't know, he's gonna be 14 in October. October, okay. So it's still gonna be a while, but this will be his year, I'll turn 14. Yeah, Boston was great, the weather was cold. Oh yeah, I'm sure. Oh man, they had, look at the fences, blew down over here. Hey man, come on, come on. Yeah, the wind was nuts last night. Yeah, they moved all my chairs around, you know, everyone always thinks that Vegas is so chill, but the weather, it's funny because it was nice and sunny for like warm, for like a, yeah, you know what, you know what, that's some crazy thing is the weather kind of bounces back and forth. Yeah. Desert living. We can't complain because when I was in Boston, it was single digit temperatures. The dogs, the dogs that you want to walk outside. That bad, yeah. But see all the fences, so they started this house so you can show people. Yeah, they started building, they're building up. They sold it here. Well, the guy, the guy bought, he's building up. He's holding, I think a one story, more contemporary like this one, you know. Wow, finally. Yeah. And so once they finished this building, they'll pave the road. They're going to pave the road. Yeah, because it's been forever. We've been waiting to get the road resurfaced, but they've been waiting for the, all the development to get finished. They'll be the last house now complete. Okay. So be 20 homes total is 19 right now. Okay. Wow. That was the whole thing when I moved here, you know, I was one of the first right. And then, you know, they started just adding more, they got different change builders a little bit. Yeah. Yeah, I got to see my mom. Oh, she was probably yeah, she was pretty happy. And I was going to see it just for a day. Yeah, I just went out there for the day, rented the car for the day and then went out there and got to see my sisters and good. Do you have to see them separate or did they just go to your mom? Yeah, we kind of, you know, everyone's kind of like in the same area, but yeah, you know, I usually sometimes they stop over my mom's. Yeah, that's why I figured when we was right after Super Bowl Sunday. So I think everyone was, they had big parties and stuff, you know, yeah. You just watched it by yourself. We watched it. We watched it at the hotel. We didn't, we didn't go to any events or anything like that. Yeah. Remember, I had the appearance the day before in New York for the Psyos. That's right. How was that? Steve's redoing the gym right now. So he just added 4,000 feet to the gym. No way. Yeah. So it's, I think he said 60,000 feet now. So it's good. We had a really good workshop kind of build the momentum for the, for the shows that are coming in the spring. You know, and you know, we have this is kind of the kickoff row where a few weeks away from the auto classic right now. I know. It's right there. Everyone's, everyone's kind of glued to, you know, those last few weeks of prep. Yes, right. Everyone has their own rhythm that they fall into. And if you remember, you know, the boards, we would use the boards. Yes. Now it's like social media is a media. That's right. Everyone's kind of self promote. It was really cool though, because we got to, we got to do Stanimal on the podcast. He was talking about, he was talking about our thread when we did the whole day in the life of and showed what I was doing in Vegas. You were coming out here and that was pretty awesome. Yeah. That was such a good idea. There was such a good idea to do that. It was, right? Yeah. It's like a 24 seven series. That was your idea. You had showed me that. Oh, because they used to do it for boxing, you know, so you showed me and I said, I should do this for you. That's what we did. That was great. It was so much fun. It's that would be really good. You know, the battle for us, we kind of missed those, those DVD type. I know the coverage even MD did some pretty cool building up to the shows I thought with the guys. When we're pulling, but was still with black men, he would actually go in person to film the guy. I remember when he went and filmed the guy in New York and the dingy apartment and the alveors, that was great. In the trenches, they used to call it. But you did a little bit for insider too, didn't you? I did. Like you shot a couple of the good people. Like you shot like a lot of people before they were really popular. I did. Yeah. We were talking about, you know, we had Ben Pekulski on you, which went and shot him in, yeah, in MI 40. Right? That's right. I remember you flew. Who else did you try to do when you were down in Florida? I did Derek. Derek who? Not in spring. Oh, you did? Yep. When he was a 212 guy or? Yep. No way. Yes. What gym? He had his own, not his own gym, but he was training. So I was staying close to Flex. That went primarily to film him. Okay. But I don't want to only do Flex. That's when Per sent me over there. Remember? We did that for JV. Oh, yeah. For JV. Oh, we did? Yes, we did. So you went to Flex's original Dragon Slayer? That's right. In Boca Raton. Okay. Was Derek training there? No, no. He was like a couple of hours away. That's his buddy. Okay, come on. Come on. Let me have it. Yeah, they actually, you can tell that the dog's kind of, it's a big dog, but it's curious, you know. So every time we do walk out here, he wants to run over and bark at the... So where did you shoot Derek then? It was like a few hours away, a couple hours away. Okay. I went over there, filmed him. I filmed Flex training with John de la Rosa, because he was coming through the Dragon Slayer to train with him. Rafa wasn't around back then. He was in his country. Yeah. But that was a good trip. Yeah, and then he moved to Gea shortly after that. But now he has his own facility out there in St. Pete. Who? Derek does. Oh, yes. I just went out for the general training. I know. I would love to see that. What does he call it? It's called Champs Vellicium. It's a good name. Yeah. Good for Derek. Is it nice? I mean, it's amazing how like, I remember when Ian Valier shot like at Gold's Venice with you. Before he was big, like big game. Yeah. We're going way back. Yeah. He shot with someone else. Who did he train with at Gold's? I don't remember. You shot him with another guy, like the duo. I don't remember. No. No. I mean, I remember back then I shot Sergio with Cody and there was a third one. I don't remember. Yeah, Cody. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Yeah. We'll finish up on the side. Oh, yeah, it's cold. So, cake upon. Usually has his jacket, but he's all naked right now outside. Okay. I'll finish inside. Okay. Yes, sir. Oh, it's cold outside today. It's that wind. You know, sometimes it's not that it's that cold, but that wind remakes it. How'd you like the other day when I sent you the, you have, you have no Valentine's honey to deal with. That's right. I don't think that you didn't have to see if we have our flowers here. I know. So, I gave these to Angie. Beautiful. And then she gave me the box. The box of roses. It's beautiful. Yep. Right, baby? Well, I only got to be my Valentine's. Yeah, it said, it said, it said, to my one and only, will you be my Valentine's? It's cute. That was very nice. He's right there. Come here, daddy. Really? You know what we were talking about the other day, the, in school, you remember on Valentine's Day, you'd have those, um, those heart candies. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you have the stickers. Remember all the stickers? Yeah. I used to love the stickers. They would come in the packs and then it would have all these quotes and stuff on it and you could stick them on everything. Yep. Oh, God. People, I wonder, like today, you don't even, I mean, a lot of people home school, but but that's like third grade, like second grade stuff, right? Yeah, I think they still have up until like middle school. They sell like carnations and roses in Valentine's Day. It's cute. It's cute and chocolate. Like they give little fundraiser to buy it. They still do that. Yeah. Trying to get it. Trying to get those fundraisers that you can buy stuff all the time. You know what I liked? I loved when I used to be able to walk in the grocery store and they'd be some Girl Scout cookies outside. Oh, they still have that today? Really? Yeah. You buy them? No. No? I just do it to donate, didn't I? Yeah. Did you do that some time? What's your favorite Girl Scout cookie? Mine was the... The ones with the coconut and the chocolate swirl? Yes. What are those called? I forgot. And the butter cookies, I like. Then Mintz? Then Mintz. Then Mintz, yeah. Ask what the Girl Scout cookie is with the chocolate and the coconut. There's a name for them. They all have names on them. Someone's gonna know on the... They're thinking they had like, why does Jay not know this? Ask Siri what it was. When's the last time you bought... I don't know. It's been a while. But remember when I was training for Olympia and the kids used to stand outside and they used to be like, okay, here's money. It's hard to say no. Give me a couple, you know? Yeah. Just give it 20 bucks. Yeah. It's hard to say no. And these box was five bucks. Was it? Really? I don't know if they called that. I thought they were called something else. Yeah, because I like... I like Mint chocolate chip ice cream. Your sister. What's your favorite ice cream flavor? Rocky Rhodes good. Do you ever go for ice cream anymore? Frozen yogurt? I used to have that a lot with... Gold and spoon. Oh, remember that? Yes. You were gonna buy one. Yes. That was my dream was to own... You were gonna buy yogurt stores. And you were gonna buy for a while. You were thinking about what's here, the one that they made the ice cream on the slab. What is it with the slab? Coastal creamer. Yeah. Yeah. You wanted to buy one of those. And everybody did because I'm already wanting to buy one of those to be really good. Yeah. That was the thing, remember? Yeah. Gold and spoon and... I wish honestly because there was no dump in donuts over here when I first moved over here and I was telling my dad we should branch out over here and he looked at me and he would... Should have done it when you asked. Well, everything's... You go to Starbucks or where do you go? Coffee bean? You ever work at any of these coffee shops? Like we work? My girl. My younger daughter. She works there. She's been there for years. She works at one. Yeah. She's been there for years. We love her. She could easily be a manager but she doesn't want to run it, I guess. I mean, I know people that are car business that don't want to be car managers. They'd rather just sell cars. Long hours car business. Yeah. Long hours. All right. Well, what's coming up next? The Arnold. That's the next thing. Arnold is coming up. I have meet and greet set up at the ride ticket so people cannot have to wait forever and then I also have young LA I'll be at. Possibly Gold's Gym. I'm working on trying to... Really? Yeah. Gold's Gym has a big booth there. Okay. Because I'm doing a lot of work with them since we did the Venice thing. With the collab. Yeah. But also just helping bring some more eyeballs to Gold's Gym. I mean, Gold's Gym weighs a lot for me because it's all started. You go way back. Yeah. I mean, if it wasn't for me walking into Gold's Gym Venice at just turning 20 and seeing all the famous... That's what... Memorabilia... That's what did it for you are. I knew... I mean, I won the T Nationals but it's like when I walked into Gold's Venice and I got no variety in there. Yeah. After at the USA is the year for me or one. I knew then, okay, I have something here. I said, I got to get to California. That was 93. 93. And then I went out in the around Christmas. Yeah. Just before Christmas and I stayed from Thanksgiving to Christmas that one month and rode the 10 speed through the gym. Were you sad to leave? I would have been so depressed. No, I missed home. I missed home. You didn't? Yeah. Because you know, you live in someone's house, dude. I'm just a creature habit where... Yeah. Like my routine is everything and when you're staying there and like different house guests are coming in, you don't have a set schedule. Like we'd go out to eat some nights and we go to a movie and like to me, there wasn't anything to do but go to the gym. That's all you want. We're focused on because that's why you were there. So I never really... And I'm... Dude, being 20 and not being with like... I couldn't even rent a car. You know, you can't rent a car till 25. So I had to be reliant. We did it at Ubers and all that shit then. That's right. That's why I'm riding at 10 speed to the gym every day. That's right. Uber changed the game. That's so true. So you could go all these places. I think we took a taxier bus when we went to Universal Studios for the first time, you know, but we couldn't rent the car till it's 25. Really? Yeah. You had to be 25. I think it's 21 now. Is it really? They love it? You know that or? No, it's 25. Is it? Yeah. Okay. Well, that was 21. 25 and up. Yeah. So we have the Arnold and then UK Arnold. Are you going there? Yes. Really? Three weeks after, I think. Oh, I didn't know that. Three weeks after. You're going to see Dr. Zack? No, because he's coming here immediately because it shows the 4th of April here at Cutler Classic. 4th of April. Okay. I was going to ask you. So Zach... Dr. Zach. He's coming to compete. Yep. Looks good. Looks good. Yeah. We've shout out to Dr. Zack, Pumping Iron Jim. He's been having a lot of influence to show up at his gym lately. Really? Yep. Like and kind of highlight it and like show the J Cutler Shrine there. Nice. But it kind of like, I was hoping that he was able to come over to, because I'm in Birmingham and he's flown over to see me before like body power days. Okay. But dude, he's like leaving for, when I'm done there, yeah, he's leaving for Vegas like as soon as like that week, because he's coming a little early, right? We definitely got to try to film him this time and get it right. I know. He's great. So Zach, we're going to get you on camera and... Oh, he's going to make his day right now. He's going to repost this. He's so great. I don't know how many years it's been that he's competed. He'll comment. He'll tell us how many years. Yeah. I mean, we switched so many venues. Now it's at South Point. So, I mean, it's back to back pretty much, you know, once March, you know, when March hits, yeah, it's go, go, go, right? Yeah. Remember all our trips to Arnold Grove and remember, we would sit there and we'd eat at that low arm. That little restaurant before you go through security right there. We'd all get food, burgers and stuff. Yeah. And if we come back enough, we usually would eat there too before taking the plane. Yeah. What's it called that place? I don't know. It wasn't a Fod Rockers right now. No, but it's a chain. Yeah. Because they have one in Columbus also. Yeah. So, it's a chain. Yeah, we eat at that little restaurant just before security. That was fun. I miss going to the Arnold. Yeah, we got to get you back to travel to some of these shows. I know. That was so much fun. You could think about how many interviews you could do walk around the Arnold. No, there's so many. Everyone's there. It's like a sold out year this year. It's huge. Really? Yes, the biggest ones they had since like, I mean, they've never sold it like this. I don't think. Well, yeah, the prize money is crazy. Right? Well, also it's just, it's now come back a little bit after, you know, all the craziness with the world and the shutdown and all that, you know, that's great. It's so much fun for some reason. Are you paying attention to the buildup for it like Andrew Jack? Yeah, yeah, Nick and Martin. Martin's been kind of quiet. Yeah, but that means he's dangerous. Yeah, yeah. He's just skipping everything under wrap and yeah, I mean, it's going to be exciting. Howdy looks great too. Howdy always looks tremendous. Yeah. I mean, you got to remember on record, no one's beaten Howdy in the last few years and none of these guys, yeah, he's still, I mean, it's kind of his show. I mean, he won it the last time he competed in it the year before last. Yeah, both shows, you know, UK and Columbus. So we're looking forward to that. So you guys are heading out to Arnold comment below. We'll get back on another J-Wack. We do have a video, a chess video that we're releasing. I don't know which one's going to come out first. It should come out like any day. Is this going to come first, I guess now? It's up to you. Yeah, I think we should just launch this. Okay. If it's not going to be ready, you know, I can't have it ready by tonight. Yeah. And then we can just launch the other one. Okay. You know, whatever. I have my computer in them. All right. So, guys, thank you so much for the continuous support. We've been dying to get a J-Wack done. Yes. We just been trying to link up the last couple of days, but I appreciate you guys keep crushing it and anything you want to comment below or engage, subscribe, make sure you guys check out the channel and stay tuned. That's right.