All right, Biggie, we have some star power and some beauty on the show today, man. That's very cool. I know. How do you How do you expect me to obviously concentrate on what I'm doing? You're very handy. I notice when you have those two here. They put their arms around me first. I'm just being reciprocate, you know. But yes, how cool is this? So, we have Lori and Kim back on the show. It's been a few months, guys. Thank you so much for coming back on the show. Thank you for having us. Yeah. So, Biggie, what do we have on tap today for uh for Vill? Well, we actually asked Laura Lee what you wanted to train today, right? And she mentioned back, so we're going to do a real cool back workout today. We're going to use uh we do three movements that are specifically for the lats and three movements that are more for the midback. We're going to focus on the stretch on some of the movements. We're going to focus on the squeeze on some of the movements. We're going to use a lot of different angles. Uh hopefully some new stuff for Laura Lee. Uh and I know Kim's probably done a lot of this stuff. Uh but it's going to be uh it's going to be great to have the two of these on the show doing some back. And of course, I just want to quickly say birthday girl here. I know. I was going to say that. Birthday girl here. Both of both birthday one day apart. How how weird is that? One day apart they are. So 12th and 13th, right? Of February. one day. You guys are Valentine's baby almost. But I'm the one who got the the gift, the birthday gift. Look at her. That is so cool. Thank you so much for Lori doesn't live close by anymore. She's about She's about 50 60 mi away and she was on on traffic for 2 and 1/2 hours today. She canled something else she had planned after this. So, we so appreciate it. Thank you so much for making it. Uh you're the best. We're glad to have you back on the show. I'm excited. All right, let's do it. Okay, so the first movement that we're using today is one of my favorites. You've seen it before here on the show. Little higher up. Lorly, it's an angled uh incline wide grip pull down. As you can see, we have an incline bench that's angled into the pulley system rather than sitting on just, you know, the regular seat that comes with the pulley. And what this does is it basically puts your body in a position where the rear end is back, the lower back is arched, the chest remains high, and it's kind of a unique pull. Rather than being straight up and down, it's kind of at an angle from top to bottom. She's pulling the weight down right under the chin. We want to try to pull it up nice and high on the body cuz we want to hit those upper back muscles mostly. And what she's doing is she's holding the squeeze at the bottom, doing what I call hyper contracting at the bottom. She's holding for about 3 seconds, but she's not just holding the weight. She's actually actively squeezing the upper back muscles to make sure she really, really contracts them hard. Rather than just holding the weight in position, which would be held with the arm, she's thinking about squeezing with the back. This is an excellent movement for building muscularity and depth in the upper back. Heat. Heat. Heat. Okay. So, the second movement that we're using now is actually we flip the body around on the same incline bench, same angle, but we switch the grip to a close grip. So, by switching to the close grip rather than the wide grip, we're focusing our energy now from midback more to the lats, looking for more width all the way from the armpit down to where the uh insert uh lower in the waist. So, what she's doing, she's actually coming to the top and she's holding that stretch for 3 seconds. So, what we're doing was emphasizing the stretch position in this movement as opposed to the contracted position which we did in the first movement. Now, this movement is really, really unique because at this angle, when you're stretching back overhead, it's almost like you're starting at the top of a pullover, which gives you a very, very strong stretch. And that stretch is very, very important for activating growth in the lats. Cuz whenever you stretch a muscle under tension, that actually causes fiber damage. And that fiber damage has to be repaired. And that causes the muscle to grow bigger. Also, the angle of pull that she's using again is very, very unique. Rather than that straight up and down angle that we all, you know, have used pretty much all the time that we've been lifting weights just by sitting in the seat regular, but this angle we're pulling back from behind you into the front of the portion of the chest down low on the chest to activate the lats. So, it's a very very unique angle of pull as well. So, it's a very very important movement for building the lats. Heat. Heat. Heat. Yeah. Relax. You feel taller. Okay. So, now for the third exercise, we're moving back to working the midback. I'm kind of going back and forth between midback and lats. We're doing a bent over row, obviously going away from the traditional barbell because what I'm doing today really is I'm I'm giving Laura Lee some new angles, some different things that she doesn't usually do in her workouts. So, we're using a lot of machines and cables which create those angles. Now, this machine is generally for the bench press. It's really just a bench press machine. Uh but we're turning it into a row machine. And as you can see, the reason why I like this machine is because it forces, as she's pulling the weight up, it forces the weight up and back. So, she's really getting that squeeze in the middle back at a unique angle rather than straight up and down. Again, what we're doing when we're doing the midback today is we're holding that squeeze at the top for 3 seconds. This is very, very difficult, especially on a movement like this, to hold that squeeze at the top. So you can see even once she's starting to release a little bit, she tries to squeeze again to keep that squeeze at the top which really contracts those muscles hard, builds that muscularity in the midback. This is a great exercise or whatever when you're caring a large complex of muscle that you just want to like Yeah. Yeah. Heat. Heat. Perform 60. Okay, so for the next movement again, we're going back focusing on the lats. Really, really focusing on the lower lats. Of course, we can't isolate those. As I always like to say, you can't isolate any part of the L, but you can effectively hit different portions of muscle fibers. So, because she's rowing this weight in low rather than high, she's affecting those lower lat fibers a little bit more. So, we're doing an angled pulley row rather than the general pulley row that you do seated. We have an incline bench set up. Uh, this is about 70°. You can change the angle if you want. We have a close grip bar, but it's not too close grip because we want her to be able to get a full range of motion so it's wide enough to get around the bench. She's getting a full stretch, but what she's doing is she's squeezing the contracting and holding the contraction for 3 seconds. Now, in this particular movement, I I have been going with the lats. I've been holding the stretch position. You can't really get a good stretch on this one and hold it. Otherwise, it puts too much pressure on the diaphragm. So, instead, we're going to use the squeeze. This is a really, really great movement for squeezing in the back. And as you can see, when she comes to the top, she's also arching the lower back and sticking the chest out, which is very, very important for getting that squeeze. If you don't do that, you're going to use more of your arms. You're not going to really squeeze and retract those shoulder blades like we want you to. You also can see she's actually standing. She's not seated on the bench. She's standing. She's got her feet there. You go on the side or you can put them back behind you. So, she's keeping her torso at that angle right along with the bench and making sure that her stomach stays crushed into the bench the entire time. So, she has a very very strict motion. The only thing that she's doing is moving at the shoulders and the elbows and thinking about driving back with the elbows. She's thinking about pulling the elbows back as far as she can rather than just pulling with the arms. Is a great movement for working the lats, especially the lower portion and building the midback. That was a two-minute set. That was I had I had to talk for a whole two minutes. That was a lot of Jeez, he can talk endlessly. Yeah, but I got a lot to say luckily. Sean, get on this. Get tired. Heat. Heat. Heat. You're making it look pretty. Okay, so the next movement again we're going back to the midback uh rather than focusing on the lats. This is a very very unique movement I like to use. cuz I think I've shown it on the show before, but never with Laura Lee. So, this is a unique movement for her. And she's trying to build up a little bit more back this year for the stage. So, this movement is really great for building those inner back muscles right where Kim is pointing right now, right? The rhomboids, the mid trap, the rear delts, that whole complex back there gets hit very, very hard by this movement. So, what she's doing, she's at a cable crossover. She's sitting on a bench and she's got her torso just a a little bit in front of the cables. And this is because we want her to be able to squeeze her elbows down and back behind her body. In her mind, she's trying to think about as if she was trying to touch her elbows behind her back. Obviously, that won't happen, but that's the mindset that she has, which allows her to get a full squeeze. Now, another thing that you could see her doing is when she comes to the top, she's rotating her palms forward. So they're facing the floor and then she's rotating so the palms are facing away from the floor at the bottom of the movement. What this does, it allows her at the top of the movement to open up the back a little bit more comfortably through the shoulders so she can get a full range of motion. And then by rotating this way, so the palms are up, she's able to draw her elbows down further than if she didn't have her palms that way. And again, we're using the squeeze on this movement. She's actually holding it for about a full 3 seconds and she's hyper contracting again. So, she's not just holding the weight in place. She's actively squeezing the back muscles. This is great for female competitors and male competitors as well. Anybody who wants more muscularity and thickness in the upper back. Back to a bicep. Laura, come on. Back to a bicycle. A back butt shot. That's not what I asked for, but that'll do. Yeah. Yeah. Heat. Okay. So, the final movement that we're going to use today, we're going back to the lats again, and we're doing the uh what I like to call the Merlin one- arm row. So, as you can see, we're using the incline bench. And a lot of the reasons why I use the incline bench in a lot of these movements is because I'm looking to stabilize the torso and not allow there to be any swinging or momentum used in any of the movements. So by using the incline bench, not only can I set up particular angles to hit particular portions of the back, but it also makes sure that there like with a regular one- arm roll for instance, you can actually use a lot of momentum from the bottom when your torso is free. You cannot do that on this movement. Also, what we're doing is we're rowing back towards the hip. We're not rowing straight up and down. If you row straight up and down, you're going to be using pretty much all rear delt and not the lats. By rowing back towards the hip, you're going to be working the lats more so than the rear delt. Also, by rowing back at an angle like this, we're going to better engage the lats. So, where she's rowing back towards the hip rather than straight up and down at that particular angle. So her she's stabilizing her torso using the other hand by wrapping it around the top of the bench. This keeps her in place. She's trying to use a full range of motion. So she's going all the way to the bottom, getting a full stretch, trying to come up and squeeze. And she's leading with the elbow. She's trying not to use the bicep, the forearm, or the brachiialis to move the weight, but rather thinking about the lat contracting the lat. Stretch to squeeze. Great movement. Give it a shot. Heat. Heat. Heat. That's good. Squeeze. That was a That was a big back workout. Six sets. That's a lot for us, right? Six exercises, two sets each. But I really I wanted to show Lori a bunch of new angles today while I had the chance to do so because she mentioned to me uh earlier that she wants to build her back a little bit bit bigger for the stages here. So I was definitely showing her some different angles and different methods to use to uh help her in that. How was that workout, Lori? Tell me. Awesome. Awesome. Just always exceeding my expectations. Always. It's good. You're going to remember some of that stuff. It's on video so you'll be able to rewatch it in case you forget. I was like in my head I was like should I take notes of this and then I have you just got to rewatch it again. Kim, you've been doing this for a couple years now. Yes. This kind of training. Yeah. Right. But I still get sore every time. I was going to say it it doesn't um it does kind of get easier. But it's always something that really takes it out of you. It doesn't take a lot of sets. No, it doesn't. You know, compared to most workout in general. How many sets do you do normally? Uh as far as workout lying for body parts roughly reps reps range. Uh no um sets sets about four to five per movement. Per movement and how many movements? Oh sorry five movement and like four to four sets like 20 25 that's a lot. A lot of volume but yeah. So we didn't less than that. We did 12 today. We did 12 sets but as I said it's quality more the the the what we get out of every single repetition because of the way that I make them do it. uh they don't need the volume. You don't need the volume. I mean, you know, you and I when we do our training, we do eight sets of body part generally and we grow from that. But that's because I say every rep is a set. So, if you treat it that way, you can get rid of the volume and just focus more on what you're doing with every rep and uh get more out of it. So, you don't have to do as much volume. So, you'll have to let us know in a couple days how you feel cuz right now I'm sure you're tired, but you know, in a couple days, you'll know. That's what I was I was saying like my back is tired which is like a kind of a weird feeling cuz you know your legs get tired because you walk so it's something that you know your your brain knows Yes. that your legs are tired but your back it's so weird to have a tired back my back is tired and you feel it right now. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome guys. Thank you so much so much for you to come on your birthday. I know you had something again planned after this and you actually canceled it so you could do this. Kim came all the way from Bakersfield for this. So we really appreciate it you guys. Uh, happy birthday both of you guys and uh, happy Valentine's Day everybody. All right. Thank you.