Make sure you're not in a world. I need to see you again. I'll be all right. All right. So, here we are at Gold's Gym Vegas. Uh, Swan Monkey Productions, Jay Cutler TV. Going to do a little leg workout. Just come home from the Fit Expo. Had a great weekend. A lot of the fans out there did some training in Venice. And, uh, now we're back in Vegas for today. I head to Louisiana tomorrow for a 4-day trip and uh hitting some legs, quads, hamstrings. Larry's going to tag along. As you see, this is uh big Larry Smith who working on still uh our pilot for the uh for the reality TV with Larry's weight loss, which he's lost 40 lbs. Just starting to put some weight training into his program after he did a lot of cardio to get his body kick started and now uh starting to try to build a little muscle. So, he's going to tag along just behind me. He works around me at night when I'm doing my my routine. And uh come check it out. And uh thank you guys for viewing. Thank you. All right. So, just get uh just give me one. I know. You don't have to film this. I want this. Heat. Heat. Okay, so we're working on some leg presses, which I always warm up first with some extensions and then we walk over to a leg Get some blood in there really deep. Trying to focus on going deeper. Really try to get that blood in there. And then we'll move over to some squats after this. Ready to get in the best shape of your life? Challenge is the ultimate opportunity to transform your body in just 12 weeks. You're watching the Governing Network. Where? some extensions. We just finished the front squats. Really just get that blood in there. It's the first time I front squatted since I think before the Olympia. So now, you know, do something different week to week. So we add some front squats. Now I'm going to do some extensions. Uh really try to get some more blood into the legs. We're going to move over to some sort of half squat. I think we might use the hammer machine today a little bit. Get a different feel in there. And then uh finish off with some one leg extensions. Gonna focus on like 12 reps here. I never Very good. 6 7 New shake. All right, this is the new shaking cup. It's your signature series. He's got a screen inside for your water and whatever else you want to put in here. Your supplements. You can split up your all your pillows in there. Okay. And of course, your protein on the bottom allin one. So, that's our new uh smart shake shake series available at smartshake.com. You got the Arnold Classic tour of the booth, right? Yes. Are you filming this or no? Heat. Heat. filming. My body guy right there right job. Come on. We're talking to the main man here. I'm okay. Come on. I bet you got I know. Great mind. I couldn't knock him down though. I can outrun him. I think I think I can outrun him. How you been? How you doing? This is my This is in my house. Really just trying to get some more fullness of hamstrings. So, we did uh seated lying. We're going to do some one leg extensions. We're going to do stifflegged deadlifts. really just try to get as much stretch, blood flow to the hamstrings. Obviously, now I got a huge pump up the quads. So, we're going to get to about 10 or 12 repetitions.