Yes, go keep Mamadou Diouf in France, welcome Morgan, that this match, happy to see you, [ __ ] you, first support is at 100g and Tim Ryan Crocker was worried yesterday, no Morgan is almost instant, record seizure, just the Aubette 55.9, Corsica Zengo or asynchronous Watts Tyson Gay Hanifa, state dinner, Morgan Stanley Works, work had quite early, yes, that's who's been working with Riis at his rates since last October, I've seen a big progression since I've been working with him, it's clear and simple, as you know, I've been trying to get the Promenade card for many years, I was blocked because of political issues, as you also know, but now I'm very happy to have won it there because winning it in Columbus, I think it's the best thing that could have happened to me in terms of visibility, yeah, that's where it had to be won, this fight that really connects, it's the only Arnold who is who Morgane Ayew, track, the weigh-in, you think you were the biggest amateur to win that all-time program on the competition, I was at 130 kg, adoption authority, shoe sizes, such text, everything is said, sex 6, whitera, beyond dry, stitched jeans, what would you like to do, what's the plan, yeah, so the plan, like I had to do, not there, but with the problems we had, I couldn't, so the next one would be their classic rating that we but among the pros, this time it's at the level of the eardrum because of the forty, to your idea of dialysis, next, a sudden prose of attitude, engine 3, nor how better, and there are grids at 1, and then of course we try to select me for Olympia 2020, Annie, season returns. Sam Wagne, Hussain Rami, combining two off-season, Camatchy, Nigerian, Linky, Lowell, beyond cult, he runs or if they are seated, Wallonia, after there it was  Version one after the crisis was quite early, and now we can move directly to version 3. At what age did we train these signs? A diesel system in hockey? Why? Because my father had a gym at home, so I must have practiced very young. As a result, the jam in the house, high level, Franz Schubert with N'Djamena, James Creusot, Villeurbanne bodybuilding. He had eight reports from Jim. So, how do you get used to the idea that every coach... and to find food, to find the Paris Bowling stock exchange, it's easy to say you can find the food or you cook it yourself, but the ready- made food here, don't you think that this weekend, as you know, my goal was to leave France in the future that we are preparing and staying in France is impossible for all the reasons, it's impossible to continue having guests. So, I hesitated between BA and Los Angeles in the United States. I had also seen Dubai, the possibility of Dubai, but it's complicated there.  It's expensive in California, that's his problem. Dubai too, basic wood, explains James Morgan Chase from Paris, which they joined last time, and Wyse, so this time competent to go by plane without saying if Zen66 at Orly 6 hours yesterday morning, so you Eric Fabre, the thigh is 6.7, it's been hard since the thing with Eric Toussaint Rome, it's hard because as I tell you I haven't worked anymore, then sponsors, there I lost everything, so I'm starting over, I'm starting from scratch, so welcomed in his mosque, which has per minute that I crack, Africa originally from Clermont Ferrand, another city in France, and there I left everything to join Eric at the wines, so that's why I tell you that I can't do anything, I can't do anything, I'm starting from scratch, where do you live, see what you lived in, from the NBA, which is the same thing, but the objective is to reach my goal at level two of the body, it's my passion and I'm going to do everything  Doing as you know, I'll do everything to succeed. It's not that I have any barriers. The party is starting to change my mind about winning our classics. People at home and everything stopped already. Daisies and not like everything else. Well, we were much bigger than most of the pros and now to be the Arnaud classic champion. In fact, everyone was waiting for this moment because everyone knows that I fight and that I work hard to reach this threshold because it's clean. So everyone is already following me. Everyone leaves before my physique. They were surprised. Tania saw the reaction. Even the word coaching. There, people were super happy. I have congratulations from all sides. Finally, the goal reached, so it's great. I only had compliments. The continentals insist. They were also taken. They were very surprised by Manning Mashaie because you saw I worked a lot on my chair. I never worried about my size and intimate thigh. He was very, very impressed by that too, on the condition that I had in fashion. Quartz harmonize your  dog I don't know of any threats and crossover attacks also refers to extremely football, interesting me to Mikari from the jury Simon you eat a lot a lot of people eat a lot for such a big no no no no precisely no she herself even with Chris I had a very high protein diet wasn't sure that all that is carbohydrates in fact if I eat a lot of carbohydrates I gain weight even much faster because I didn't calculate my summer we believe if they were at 202 50 grams of meat so that makes 45 50 g of protein per Robin wow it's about protein first project okay then captured by Tap has a big appetite no you may have if I have a big appetite but in fact I don't need to eat a lot to look at muscle mass and chip east side it's enough that they told me that a big match dead in Deir Yassin Mikari Faty Max Payne 2 local sports bags local [Laughs] I don't  I don't know if you remember the last time I came to the beautiful jeans, I had gone up to 164 body weight, come save his family, neighbor caused kidneys, sixty-four who dares in wood, friends of the sorting 6-19, eager to know a big door, a genetic ethic, they are big, they bump into each other, to believe the ultimate goal is to win the Arnold won from Olympia, moved to the United States, that's all, what is it, what is your goal for the next five years, already to participate in the look, to win it, after we all know how it works, but business, why not top 5, top 3, that would already be huge, to prepare for the United States, yes, why not, effective Reims indeed, tell Fars, ah ah ah ah, if that until, until, until they have to be there, and then when they go to demonstrate, when you think you understand what they are saying, Lydie, the cup of most people in Europe, they say I'm going to go, my dream was to go to  Olympia, I just want to be among the greats, among the stars, just for one second, only some people have the courage to say no, huh? I want to win, I'll do everything, good memory, all the competitions that JP, I prepared them for to win, it's your part and other things that will fulfill it, music awards, physics and speed, most said Guy, most people ask you when they start competing, and Grèzes, he wants to become a pro, Desailly, he looks to someone for motivation, for most people, someone they can look to, who are like a little bit, but was there no one like you, yeah, so who is it that gave you from there, what gave you motivation, or an athlete that you see, that you've been watching since the study, must play like him, where there are two athletes that I like, that I really liked, there's Rosny and Jay, they are the two male athletes who touched me, why, in close quarters, in close quarters, because of our build, size before  to go because of their physique, because of their strength too, they had a lot of strength, and also because they represent the human side, they are people, they are approachable people, their personalities are people I appreciate for that too, a lot to do the pieces, AB, the Soho district, the offense, he wants to know when he did it, when he arrived on the left the first time, how the gyms were different from those in France, there was a big difference comparatively between the two, or if you want, there is a big difference in the size of the gym, there were much bigger ones, then in terms of equipment, there isn't particularly a difference, we have the same machines in France, ah ok, then in terms of training methods, I saw some athletes training with techniques, you saw, we, the technique, we still kept the country, really feel the sensation, these training methods that I like, it's not just about doing heavy lifting and bourgeois stuff, it's really precise, Sophie 16, as far as Sizewell, Suffolk and Jam for his origins and technique, René  Huerga your soul black towards metalcore will always be with René or not, no no no constraint or just name René, there just isn't a superhero scene in France, nobody wants to train with me because it hurts them too much, many who steal from France and Dubai too, in Dubai nobody or specify it, okay, what are Jay's objectives now and what makes him a little bit, he wants to know what it is, you say it, if you jump at people's lives and especially those who didn't understand a little what he said, he said his goal now, stop using this in images, his image and then the platform we have that we made with YouTube and all and his brand to give a chance to people who, like you, your industry, to be able to have more visibility, you're not lying, it was important for him to give back to the sport, so he comes for himself now, but they petitioned more, so he can think of others, so if he wants to do it, that's how they, yeah, it's super high  Understood, who wants to concentrate everything next time I come, you have to come back with great pleasure [Laughs] for Morgane and who are Marco Minniti, expensive life is in Morgen, contact, in fact, what's easier for people to contact and Instagram, Instagram, and then if they want to contact you for sponsors, for sponsors for Tunis, anything, exhibitors, there's one that this match thanks to you so much