Okay, now you can talk. I jwalk. We uh It's pretty quiet in this neighborhood today, isn't it? You know why? It's a little later. Oh, is that why? I was on Bankers today. You were that late for for you, surprisingly. Were you surprised when I said I'm going to sleep till 8:00? I was surprised. Yeah, I knew we were stayed up and watched uh I forgot what we were watching last night. We're just talking about Stallone though in the in the Tulsa King and the documentary and he's been you know what's kind of what's different from today? Um do you still go to the movies a lot? Not not out. What's the LA Do you remember the last movie you saw at the theater? Cuz normally you had the Did you have an AMC card? I had a pass. Yeah. What was it? It was like a pass where I paid like X amount of money. 19 or 24 bucks a month and you had unlimited. You could see as many as 12 movies a month. But was it a matinea like? No. No. Anytime I wanted and if I wanted to go see like uh um IMAX or like like expensive movie, it wasn't any more money. It was great. It was a great deal. But then it stopped during the quarantine. What I wonder is this, and this might be some of our parents at home that have children that are teenagers, and are there any film actors now besides Dwayne Johnson that people look at that and say, "I want to have the physiques." Who Who else has great physiques in Hollywood? Jason Statam is not bad. Jason Stathithm. Yeah. I mean, he's not big, but he's in shape. Chris Hemsworth. Yeah. Thor. Thor. Right. But don't you think uh we had a lot more inspirational characters? It's not like back in the day. I mean, cuz he had Stallone, Vanam, Schwarzenegger, Arnold. Uh I mean, Bruce Willis was a action star, but he didn't have a body. No, there's more. There's more cuz I can say that the only if anyone asked me why I got into bodybuilding I think Arnold yeah I I don't give enough credit to Arnold because yes he did Commando all those films but I think it was more the Stallone the Rocky series and and uh like first blood was it first blood was that his movie was first blood in 1982 that was the original first blood right first blood yeah and then Okay. Vanam had a whole bunch and he was always in shape. Like he never did a movie where he was. How many times do you think you watched Blood Sport? Countless. Huh? Countless time. I You know what? I don't remember Lion Hart, though. Oh, that was a good one. We She almost put it on last night. She She put She clipped through it. She's like, "Do you want to watch Blood Sport?" And I'm like, "Uh." Lion Hart was great because it was just like a underground fighting stuff, you know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even I remember how big Star Wars was as a as a film. Star Wars series. Yeah. I remember you used to go see the films quite often. What was the closest casino to you? Did you go to Sun Coast or what is it now? Yeah. Santa Fe. Oh, Santa Fe. That's right. The same as yours, right? Santa. You imagine when where we grew up. It was like a huge ordeal to go to the to go to the movies. Like you you probably had to go a distance. Now it's like it's like right here at any I mean you can go to any casino really. And Yeah. But I feel like the industry is kind of kind of past us now. Yeah. Everybody's staying home. Yeah. Everything's streaming. Yeah. Everything it's all different now. What do you think about this uh the shows coming up this weekend? The uh Detroit. Oh, that's right. Right. That's right. Yeah. Who's doing it? William Bonik's favorite. Uh James Hollingsshed's in it. Uh I don't know who else. I think that guy Good Veto is competing in Brazil this weekend. Okay. I know I know Chris is training him. Yeah, he's a big dude. He's pretty big, right? Yeah. Good lines, too, for someone that big that doesn't have a big waist. There's a lot of good talent coming up from the especially from the international market. Yeah. Were you surprised that Derek announced that he's going to do Pittsburgh? You know, I knew he was doing it. But really, I didn't know. But it I think it's he's on a roll right now. I think he just wants to make a point after the Arnold that, you know, he's coming back to get the title. That's what I think. Yeah. You know, it must have been really hard for him to finish third at the Olympia. That's kind of like Dexter when he lost to you 9, you know. Yeah. You go from first to third. Ouch. Yeah. But sometime I mean, dude, it's all up in the judges hands. I know. I mean, not to say I mean Derek definitely knew he wasn't I mean if if he was at his best and he got third, it's different. But when you're off, I mean just like in '08 when I was off, it was so disappointing. It must have been disappointing for you for me to lose the title and you go back to Venice and everyone's coming in and oh dude and what I mean what' you say because you were like but you know why that was just I I knew you were going to come back strong and I knew you're going to get that again and we get in fight did you come out did you come out a lot during the 09 prep of course like were you filming then of I don't know if I was filming yet. Were you with MD? I think it was MD or were you still with Flex then? Do you remember? I think I think I had both I had both for a minute. Oh, did you? Yes. Remember I left right after I could like I think I won the Olympia back and then I left Flex. That's what I thought. Within a month. Yes. And what what was the column you were doing at the time? It was called Life in Venice. What's new today? Okay. Yeah. And then of course I was dealing with Blackman before the Olympia cuz you were like, you know, thinking about going. Yeah. You think now if you uh you think if you were living in Venice and the store was still existent and it was still that aura, you could run some sort of an online life in Venice thread. I think so. Like almost like a YouTube series or I think so. But there's no one there anymore. Yeah, that's the problem. Back in the day, that would have been great, you know, if I had like a camera installed in the store, just filming constantly. What was the biggest selling product in your nutrition shop? Protein. Yeah. Protein, glutamine. And what was what flavor sold the most? Shoot. And it was it just like a regular whey protein at the time or is it was a triple uh uh uh five blend. Okay. kind of like Pro M3 when you with ISS but five. That was a good blend. And was Max Muscle your biggest protein? Cuz obviously with Max of course. Yeah. But you used to love that everyone would come over and hang out. I love that store. So were you pretty good at the video games? Did Did you ever beat Cormier or not so much? Oh yeah. Really? Me and him would always Okay, come on. Me and him would always go at it. I know. He's excited. Yeah. So, you actually beat him? I did. Not always. Like, who won more than It was about 50/50, but I remember he would get so And he was big at the time. He was still competing. Yeah. So, when you would win, he would get up and start doing most muscular. Yeah. Yeah. What game What game do you guys play? Fight night. Oh, the boxing game. He was so nice. So you got pretty good being able to cuz you would come in there would be no one there, right? Would anyone come in the store? It was it was sometimes it was busy but sometimes it was kind of slow, you know. So he was he would come on the couch. He would spend the whole day there. He would come in the morning. Yeah. What time? I don't know like 10:00 which is late for Chris cuz he sleeps in. Then he would go work out and he'd come back for lunch and he would go work out again and he come back to tan and he would stay with me all day like almost sometimes. Really? Oh yeah. It was fun during his Arnold prep. Yeah. In04. Yeah. So, you know, you know, that just shows Chris's character a lot because like he knew you were close to me and we were competing and Yeah. I got to I got to really like him a lot and uh when the Olympia comes around, I was just kind of like, [\h__\h] man. I I really love Chris, you know, but I hope she's going to win. But it was funny. Yeah, he's uh I remember one time I became so good at the game. I don't know why. I was just like in a roll and I was at the Arnold Classic and Peter McGuff was there and we're talking about fight night and I told Chris, "How about this? Next time we play, you pick my fighter, you pick your fighter, and I'll beat you every single time." And he was so pissed, dude. He was like, "Why are you saying that? Why are you saying that?" Really? You know some tricks? Yeah. Yeah. So you mastered the game more than he did. Yeah, I was getting really good at some points. Was playing a lot. So you don't play anymore, huh? He You know what? They don't make that game anymore because of UFC. Oh, really? They stopped 10 years ago. Yeah, I was told. That was a great game. You never got into games. Were you playing games when you were little? No. No. You know, we weren't Our parents didn't have us. They didn't We had Nintendo. Yeah. Then we had Game Boy and stuff like that, but not not the good stuff. Let me just put him in. Let's we'll finish. Yeah, we weren't really uh we weren't really not not I don't want to say not allowed, but just wasn't a thing. You know, we were doing so many chores around the house. It was hard. Like when you say, you know, sitting there all day and playing, I think that's how you became really good at it. Yeah. I just didn't have that time. Yeah, of course. Because of the concrete work. It's It's better, dude. The kids today, that's all they do. They don't even go outside. Like Jenny's kids, he'll spend all day on the weekend and sometimes till like just playing we hour in the morning on the game. Yeah. I guess it probably does get addicting like that. Of course. So when they Who's when you were doing Gold's Gym Venice, like when we ended up putting up the the poster. We were talking about that this morning. Yeah. That we paid for, by the way. That's right. We didn't want to wait. Yeah. So let me ask you a question. And did they who who kind of ran that whole who who' you contact in order to put it up? So I had to get the approval of the general manager of gold of course. Who was at the time? Do you remember? Uh I think it was Jeff. Oh, it was Yeah. And then when he said yes, he said, "Okay, well just give me the picture. Those are the dimensions." And then we found a place on uh uh what is this? I don't know. Lincoln. Yeah. Lincoln Boulevard. And they blew it up. And then they blew it up. And we actually changed the picture out. A lot of people don't know. Yeah. We took that original picture down. We gave it to Scotty. It's sitting in this basement. Yeah. You still have the pictures of it going up or you not anymore, dude? No. Was it? Yeah. I'm trying to think it was digital then, which I think it was. Yeah. And we wanted to change it a third time to add to add like the last year and use a quad stomp. That would have been the best picture to put up there. And what happened? We just never followed up. What happened is that the quarantine happened. Oh, yeah. And then we kind of just did. So, you think as they're putting up more pictures now, how do you think these pictures are getting put up there? I think it's the gym. Yeah, the gym's actually better now about doing it because because no one had So, so who won before me? So, it was Ronnie. He had his image up there. Yeah. And then mine went up. They give they did one for Dexter's there because he trained there. They did one for Sean, one for Phil, one for Phil. Yeah. And then that's it. I don't think Brenton's on the wall. You're right. I don't think Big Ramy's on the wall. So, they kind of stopped after. They stopped. That's too bad. I mean, I mean, I want I want a picture up there big time. I mean, that's what the whole thing when you walk in the Gold Gym Venice and you see I mean, I can tell you that changed my life, man. seen those pictures like I saw that when I was 19 when I showed up there and I said I have to be on that wall dude. And at the time if you remember uh like yeah I had a couple random pictures there. Yeah. But to be on that the elite Olympia wall next to Arnold man that's a big goal. Yeah. That's a hell of a goal. Yes. You know you tell people that. Oh, one day I was like, "What about the uh so when people Venice visit Gold's Venice?" I mean, there's so many people tagged me in so many of the pictures. I think it's just really cool to see that, you know. I know. It's legendary. Yeah. The good old days. Legendary. Good old days, man. Now we're in the I miss it. Eric talks about it a lot right now. He does, huh? Yeah. He's like, "Oh, man." Did he Have you seen him since I came back from Bakersfield or Yeah. Yeah. Did you Did you tell him I said, "You're on your vacation in Bakersfield." I told him, you said it wasn't that bad. He says, "No, no, it's not that bad." Yeah. You know, you admitted it. It was good. So, uh, last week in Bakersfield, huge event. Next one's Fibo. Then, Cutler Classic Vegas, Cutler Classic Boston, and then I'm in DMV early May. May 10th, Montreal. May 19th, New York Pro. I have a wedding. And then uh the last weekend I'm in Nashville of May. Hey, actually did you see the last video we did in the gym and you were talking about the event? I actually put a picture from your Instagram with the event and the the crowd where what event? Uh Bakersfield. Oh, really? You put it up? Yeah. Because you were talking about, you know, I wish people could see the line and everything. So I got one. You could see yourself and the line. Sick. Yeah. You remember walking in those places and seeing But they showed they told you they tented out and everything there. They had tents and I know that's crazy. That was pretty cool. Yeah. Last time I went that dig with you like that was uh John and Desiree. But yeah, that was good. Yeah. Yeah. That was recently. That was what, two years ago? Not even. You didn't go to the full-time Do you went Did you go to the full-time bodybuilder? Uh gym. You went with me that time, didn't you? Gym. No, the gym uh in Iron Works training. David, of course. No. Uh yeah, Dave. Yeah, you went with me there. Yes. Cuz he wanted you to come. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He made a poster for me and everything. Oh, yeah. That's right. Yeah, he hit me up. He's great. I hope. Uh, shout out to you, Dave. Yeah, iron works. Yeah. So, all right, guys. We're going to wrap it up for jaywalking. Uh, this should finish off our week. Um, we'll be back next week for another training video. If you guys haven't checked out our arm training video that just launched out this week. Uh, we're back to doing YouTube. We're staying on track. Dave's happy. Back in the gym. Are you training today? Yeah. What's today? Today is um Oh, no. What is that? Quads and chest. Is that weird? No, but someone commented on the YouTube about hamstrings and triceps. Was it triceps and hamstrings? No, the tricep and No, but you did triceps and biceps, but they commented like the old What's the old routine? Yeah, tricep triceps and hamstrings. Yeah, it's funny. Guys, guys, uh make sure you guys comment below. Uh, we're reminisce about a couple things here, but I want you guys to give me your insight. Appreciate you guys. That Game of Thrones go sy on you. I kept the script, I roll the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to shut