Come on. Come on. Here's your favorite though. I know. I I know. I heard them. Did it wake you up or? No. No. But I came in the garage to get my shoes and I could hear the leaf blowers. I'm like, "Ah, great." You did my house yesterday. Good morning. The weather's nice, right? It's very nice. Hey, come on. Come on, buddy. No, it's nice. It's hot. It's comfortable. I don't know if it's hot. Well, for the morning, it's not bad. Just shows how fast the weather's going to change. I know. You'll be dying of heat soon. You'll be telling me I can't take this heat. I'll be coming to Venice. I know. You'll be like, "Good morning. Good. How are you? Come on. Come on. Yeah, it's funny. I went to I went to go look at flights, dude, to see to fly back to mass to see my family while all this, you know, I had this weekend canceled and I'm off next weekend. But the tickets are still expensive. Tickets are still pricey. I figured they would they would, you know, I can imagine the flights aren't going to be as full, but Seems like the ticket prices are still the same. I heard on the radio, it's funny you say that cuz I heard on the radio last week that they were offering that crazy deal like $9.99 and 20 20 bucks for flight like certain places because people weren't flying. Wow. So that's kind of Yeah, I saw pictures yesterday people posted the flights weren't that full. If this dog's out over here, you got to watch Capone. He runs at the gate. Watch this. He gets excited. There's a huge great day behind this thing. Oh, really? You got to get on film. All right. So, what he does, he he's he's he has no fear of big dogs. Who's that? Who's that? Who's that? You going to go see your friend? Hey, you going to go see your friend? She said he was around big dogs. Look, look, look, look, look. Oh, dude. Go see your friends. Go see your friends. Where are they? You want to go see? Look. See, the size of a dog. Oh, yeah. He puts his nose. It's okay. It's okay. Pretty brave considering that he's behind the fence, huh? Like, I'll take him. Yeah. Cute. Wiper Daisy down a little bit. And she gets mad cuz I don't let her walk as much. Yeah. and she won't go up to the fence. They say dogs don't have uh they don't have fear of the size of other dogs. Really? They're crazy. Then I don't know if that's true or not, though. Maybe some of our dog experts can tell us that. Yeah. I don't know. You ever think about how they know how people do these studies and how do they know what they look? I got to bring a bag and I can back up. People asked that I think last time. Yeah. Where's the bag? Now I got to bring a bag cuz I thought she usually she gets up and goes to the bathroom. So I will get a bag and you'll see me clean that up. Yeah, I'm not I'm not filming that. Isaac is going to say I'm not filming that. Isaac, come on. I'll let you walk a little bit. These babies. This makes my whole day though. This is my piece in the morning. Yeah, I get it. I let you sleep in a little bit this morning. You did? I was up though by like 7:45. I was checking out the comments already. So, okay, that's good. Yeah. Come on. Come on, Daisy. Jaywalking. We are back and we would not have this special episode of jaywalking more than likely if we were flying today. Yeah, maybe we would have got up early for that. What? We're supposed to fly at 9:00, right? Flight was at 9:00. Yeah. Now that it's here and we're here and like we're in the mix, I'm like, damn, I miss it. You know, I know. I I was kind of dreading the flight and I know getting off the flight, we would have had the event today, that Bullfrog event, which is still going on, but uh you know, I I wanted to mention I if you knew this, but I had reached out to Coleman not too long ago. Ronnie, you didn't tell me. Yeah, when he was in the hospital, and he was telling me, "Hi, guys." Uh, and he was telling me how excited he was to go to the Arnold Classic cuz he missed the the Fit Expo LA. Oh. So, uh, you know, he was recovering from his another hip surgery and he had a clot. So, uh, it was kind of cool to to speak to him a little bit. How do you sound? I still see a lot of stuff. He sounded good, you know. He sounded very positive. Good. Um, I was watching yesterday on the internet. Yeah. I saw you see he has a podcast or some sort of thing he does with Giles. With Giles. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. But it made me think back to, you know, when I watch the hype on these shows and, you know, not to pat you or myself on the back, but we really did the Sergio thing right for leading up to the show, which I don't know why I don't know why the hell you called it under the radar. He that was his choice. Oh, well, I asked him think about a good a good title for the season. At the time it was ending. It wasn't he wasn't so much under the radar that I told him that in the video. I mean, if anything, he was one of the most hyped guys going in, especially now he has a controversial Patrick Moore. Yeah, it's a big question mark. Who's going to place more? Who's going to place better, you know? Yeah. Uh, but the rivalries aren't there. I mean, we saw a little bit of the Kai and Phil thing, which I still see them kind of going back and forth, but I predict both those guys will stay retired. Really? I think so. Hm. I don't think we'll see Kai Green come back. And I don't think Phil Heath will come back either. But what if they throw money at Kai? That's what Palumbo says on his last. Yeah, but you know what? Kai's I think Kai's doing okay moneywise. Yeah, your heart needs to be in it. I mean, there was some there's a thing something Chris and Cedto and I always talked about. Good morning. Uh that you have to have the mindset like a year in advance in order to if you're going to come back and win a title. Yeah. You got to kind of know. You can't just decide in June after being on a hiatus for 3, four years. I don't know how long it's been. Yeah. Thomas said, "No, I'm going to come back and win the Mr. Olympia." You know, how long's it been? 5 years. I know. But when you look at him, he looks like he could still compete. Like, you know what, Dave? It's It's one of those things where in 13 I look like I was like right there where I used to be, too. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. And that didn't uh that didn't really get to to showcase as much, you know. Yeah, I see what you mean. So, I think with with Kai and Phil like that whole buildup was was there, but we don't have that now. You understand? Right. There's not a lot of stuff going on with Okay. Who's going to be I mean, I guess Bonnick's kind of building like his his status, right? He's staying in his spot. because he's been first or second in a lot of these shows. People forget that. I think when you're walking into the Arnold and you say, "Who's the front runner?" I mean, Bonick's been the winner and then he finished second and and now he's like the talked about guy and he was second at the Olympia, too. So, he's been pretty consistent. Always. He's always in shape. Yeah. No doubt. And I met him when he was very like not unknown, you know. Um, but we don't have the rivalries and I think that's affected like I think that's what the excitement of bodybuilding is when you know these guys are going to battle each other. I mean I hate to say it even remember the days of King Kamali and Craig Titus. Oh yeah. Remember those battles? That was exciting man. They were going to go at it the press conference and can you imagine if they had social media not just magazines? Oh my god. Yeah. Like they were like flaring arms. Oh my god. on stage and Craig was like, "Don't you think that I can't come down and kick your ass if because we're at the press conference?" I was just like, "Geez." Yeah, he was a nut. But people love that stuff because it's like wrestling. When you're in a sport or a business, I hate I some people question is a sport, you know, it's judged by scorecards and we don't know what the judge is going to score. No one's knocking someone out or beating someone in a race. Right. Right. Uh, so you need that kind of excitement. So how do you build those rivalries? Well, they're built through placings in the contest. You know, Ronnie and I were so close for so many years. And while people think Ronnie dominated, and then others think that I could have won on certain years, which is questionable. I'm not sitting here making that claim like I should have won or could have won. I should have won in 2001 based on for sure. But that kind of built it up for the many years forward and you and I I mean you were on my team and you remember after all those shows how much of a let down and you know you had to go back to the store cuz you were working at the Max Muscles Dennis then and you were telling everyone prior to the show I'm telling you Jay's going to win. So, and then these these Fs, I'm not going to swear, would come in and they'd be like, "I told you, yeah, I told you Ronnie was going to win." But what was nice is no one ever got past me for that second place status. So, if someone said so and so was coming up, you know, we saw Gunther, we saw Gustavo Bedell, we saw Dexter Jackson, we saw Kai, even the rise of Kai. Remember Kai in09 like he moved to Vegas and did the whole um Rocky 4 type thing and he trained in Vegas with Oscar Arden and all that and remember some guy came to the store prior to the show and he was like oh my god I'm telling you Kai is going to win and everything and you had lost to Dexter the year before. Oh we know that guy's name of course we do. We're not going to say it. And then I'm like you're nuts. Jay's going to win and stuff. And so we basically had an argument and I kicked him out of the store. And of course after prejudging when you killed everybody he comes as we're getting out of the athletes interest. Oh JJ and I said no no no no in front of everybody so mad. Oh that was that was great dude. I I can't even remember like it wasn't planned or anything like that. I just like he I just stopped him in the track. I'm like dude don't even don't come up here after like he was there like a week prior saying I'm telling you like yeah K's going to kill Jay and all this stuff. Crazy how that goes, right? I was glad, dude. I remember in ' 06, I actually had a bet with someone on Muscle Mayhem, which was Chaz Nichol's side at the time, that you were going to win against Ronnie. 100 bucks. Uh, was it that one or was it uh Yeah, I think it was Muscle Mayhem. And I won, of course. And one of the moderator actually told me, "Oh, come on. You're not going to make him pay. He's a student." I'm like, "Hell yeah, you better pay me." I got the 100 bucks. Did you really? Yeah. I made money off your name in ' 06. Yeah. And every year when I I talked about this when we used to go to Milos's gym, you know, we started at Club Metrics. We do the shoots there. And then, you know, we we end up migrating over to Milos's uh coliseum. Coliseum. It was powerhouse, right? Or gold or whatever. And then, you know, so Ronnie would come in and do his shoot. And then I would usually go after Ronnie. So I'd ask Chris, "How did Ronnie look?" And he's like, "Oh, he looked great." But I remember in ' 06 when I came in, you know, I think Ronnie had been there and he's like, "Holy sh, you know, I was 276." Oh, dude. And you had those pictures. Remember you brought your camera? You asked me. And you would never do that. Yeah. You said, "Do you have your camera on you?" And I said, "Yeah." And he said, "You want to take some pictures and post them on take some pictures, too?" Oh, he flipped out when he saw that you let me take pictures. He went to grab his cameras on office and he posted a whole bunch. McGuff was pissed, actually. Remember that? Why? because you were under contract with Weider and we were leaking pictures of you looking that great on the social. Yeah. He was not happy about it, but he let it go. But I'm just saying it was good hype for you. Yeah. That was like what 10 days out from the show or something like that. I think it was 2 weeks. Yeah. 10 14 days. Yeah. And he looks so great. And and then the whole hype train started. But you know what's funny, Dave, is I remember thinking when I drove back to Vegas, I'm like, I just need to hold this. Yeah. I just need to hold this shape. Yeah. How am I going to do it? Because remember, I was eating so much food. Yeah, you were huge. I mean, I was still almost 280 and uh I'm like, how am I ever going to get like be where I need to be? End up competing in the low 70s, 270s when I the first night when I actually won the show and then I was 267 for the final victory. And we never talk about this cuz we don't really do that on the channel, but for that show, you never took Direct at all either. Nope. which was unheard of. Yeah. You felt so great, you looked so great, you were healthy, you were not tired, you were not dead. That was a great show for us. You know, that was the thing with me and that you talk about anti-estrogens and you know, there's a lot of anti-estrogens that guys use in the shows, you know, when they train and helps with water retention and Yeah. with estrogen levels, right? But I didn't know anything really about estrogen. And and that's the main thing is, you know, the crazy thing is is when I started, I worked with Chris Aceto for God knows how many years. And we never talked about drugs. Really? Yeah. And I know it's hard for people to believe, but he never asked me, "Hey, what do you take?" or what D. It was always about the diet. Always. because I just made this comment to you how much you've transformed uh since you started training back in November. And it's not like do I ask you, hey, what do you take? No, we never talk about No, we never talk about it because I know what you eat now. Yeah. And I know I just talked about you bumping up the food from five meals to six meals. And I know you were struggling to get five. Yeah, I was. And now look what's going on. So yeah, it's crazy because the food is so it's so important and I think you know I I reminisce about these events and like what I did kind of to chase Ronnie and make the difference when we had that first and second thing and I mean the food was a huge huge factor. Yeah. I remember you'd ask me what are you eating? It wasn't you never ask me what I was taking. No, it was always like how are you eating different or Well, first you don't ask a pro bodybuilder what's your stack. It's just you just don't do it. It's stacky and stuff. I mean, if they volunteer information, that's great. But it's just like you just don't do that. Yeah. To me, I I don't know. I would never go to Sean Rhoden or any other people. I'm friends with most of these guys, but I've never went to any of them saying, "Hey, what's your stash? What do you take?" I just don't do that. It's I don't know. I don't get people who do that, but Well, they think it's a secret, which I understand. People on the outside want to know. And uh but I would rather like you said I would rather ask them what do you eat? Actually, you know what? It's funny because I did ask that question to Sean Roland recently because I was told by you that Chris is someone who would say okay um eat x amount of protein, x amount of carbs, x amount of fat when he sends you diet or he would tell you per meal. So I asked Sean, does he do the same thing to you? And he said, you know, uh I know he does that, but to me I need to be told you need to eat exactly what food and all that. Yeah. 10 ounces of salmon and, you know, x amount of potatoes that you know, he needs that structure. So, it's different for everyone, you know. Yeah. And I was surprised you said that. Oh, nice. Look at that. Yeah. So, everyone's different. Some people need more structure and guidance, I guess. I don't know. Yeah. Some people need it. Like I told you, he he put 50 g of protein. Yeah. 75 carbs. You know, that kind of stuff. And like we didn't really count the fat to be honest. Yeah. But to go back like the Ronnie era and all that like not to say that my training style changed. I did chase his training style. You remember? Yeah. I never did a T- bar row in my life until I realized I had to beat Ronnie Coleman in the back department. I didn't I didn't necessarily deadlift in my routine until I realized I had to beat Ronnie Coleman. So that I put out that post a long time ago on Instagram and I said, you know, does a bodybuilder need to deadlift and it definitely helped my back, but it definitely made my waist wider, which was unfortunate because I did have for, you know, not a bless with a super small waist, but definitely a smaller waist than what I had the obliques. Yeah, cuz I had a good set of abs, right? And I had a flat stomach and never Yeah, exactly. So, I did chase him as far as that side, but I think our diets were totally different. Like he he ate like barbecue sauce on his food and but he was doing 3 hours of cardio a day. Yeah. And he was eating out at out back and I wouldn't do that on a diet. You remember? I was so particular. You cooked everything yourself. But I think what I look forward to mo the most Dave in the in those years of like 06 and seven and eight and nine and whatever was coming to LA after the event and being able walking Golds venison being like I'm solidified as like the king the best guy, you know, besides Ronnie. Yeah. For a lot of those years until after 06, right? Yeah. But I remember when my pitcher got up on the wall like that was a big deal. You made that happen, dude. We didn't wait too long after you won. Who helped you do it? I contacted uh Weer offices. Okay. Because uh who was doing the pictures back? Kevin Horton. Well, Kevin Clark was doing the pictures, I think. Yeah. Before that, it was uh Robert Reef was the first one. Okay. So, he had like the background picture when you guys get off the stage and compete and stuff. So, they basically hooked me up with him. They sent me the file. I got it blown up and put it on the cardboard and I told Gold's here, there's the picture ready to go. And that was it. They went up like literally two two weeks after. Yeah, that was great. And I remember, was I there for the hanging? I think so. You couldn't wait. We couldn't wait for you to get up on the wall. It was such a big achievement, you know. Yeah. And I think my picture looked the best, you know. That's great. Cuz it was the most updated one, right? Cuz Ronnie's was back when cameras weren't as digital and then I had a nice digital picture. We It was a real professional one. Yours? Yeah. Not a stage shot, nothing like a your studio. You know, I need to put that extra year up there. I know. We need to do that. The one that's up there is really cool. And that one's by Kevin. Kevin Horton. Yeah, that was actually prior to the Olympia. That was And who drew the picture with you taking the picture of me? Who? Kevin Horton. I know. But who decided to put that up? Uh, how did that get up there? I think I think I just I just blew it up and I gave it to them and they put it up. If we I wonder if we gave him any more pictures, would they put it up? If you're on it, I'm sure. Maybe that's a goal. Maybe that's a goal. Put a new one. I think we should put a new one. I think we should get a good shot of that qu that quad stomp. Dude, that should that should be inside Gold's Venice, don't you think? You're right. You're right. That's iconic. Okay, that's your That's your new duty. Okay, if we project If we blow up the quad stomp, I mean, damn, I can they did put it up for sure. They would. I have that as a high uh high-res. Yeah. I just wonder the MD cover would look really cool up there. You want to give the the publicity to empty gold? I mean, it was a very famous picture. I know. The one I have is from Purple, I think. Yeah. Or Kevin. One of the two. I bet Perr has a really good uh black and white of that. So, that's going to be our next thing. Yeah. Who wants to see the quad stomp on Goldstein Venice Mall? There you go. Leave comments. Or am I got too many pictures up there? Yeah, you don't have that many. How many you have? One, two, three. Yeah, three, I think. Yeah, you're due for one more. Okay, we'll ask Jeff. Okay. Is Jeff in charge of that? I'm sure. You know what? You want to go soon? If we catch him, you need to ask him yourself. And that's Yeah, maybe this weekend. Yeah. Yeah. And that'll be a yes for sure from you. Weather's so nice right now. Oh my god, it's like summer. Always love the springs out here. Yeah, it's great. Remember this is time about I picked up and I decided I was going to move to Vegas around this time of year. It was early it was March after the Arnold. Okay. That I came out to visit someone and I'm like damn this is nice out here. Yeah. So the rival days of Ronnie Coleman. You know what's funny is that you guys had that rivalry but it was a quiet rivalry like a quiet war. We really respected each other a lot. Nothing was being said negatively to this day. Yeah. Um he was confident he was going to win and I seemed to be confident I was going to win and you know remember the tensions backstage. You were backstage a couple years taking pictures. Yeah. You know what would put me off though? Sometimes I remember going to those Arnolds where you won and after that in the expo and stuff people would be excited after prejudging or after you win and they would I remember specifically they would go to Ronnie like hey Ronnie what do you think? J looks pretty good. Then he would say, "I didn't see anything that really uh impressed me." And I would get so pissed. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He didn't pick me to be the next Mr. Lymp. They picked out Victor Martinez. You remember? That's another guy like I think they're leaving out a few people. Steve Kulo, Victor Martinez. Like these guys look good, man. Great. Like you see the picture of Victor. Was that back shot? Was that now? Yeah. I mean, Steve told me when I was when I was back there a couple months ago, he said, "Victor actually looks really good." Yeah, that's a They say this is his last show, though, huh? I could see that. A lot of people retiring this year. He's only 45, though. No, he's my age. He's 46. Oh, okay. 46. Well, still. He'll be 47 in July. Okay. We're both the same age. A few days apart. That seems young to me. He has the same birthday as Arnold, I think. Oh, wow. We're in Arnold. We're all Leos. Oh yeah. This guy works on his garage every day here. That makes sense. Leos. Like for me, you don't call me. I had no clue he was a Leo like you. But you were the same sign. He knew. He knew. Okay. Yeah, because he wishes me happy birthday every year. Okay. Well, maybe he was. He might have been like out of it. Yeah, he must have been. He must have been concentrating surgery cuz he just text me. He just texted me that like recently. Oh, I didn't know me and G had the same birthday. Yeah. He's the 14th, I think, of August. Oh, okay. So, he's the same sign. Yeah. Oh, yeah. We had the Cormier battles, too. That's a good rivalry between me and him at the Arnold. Oh, yeah. Little controversy there. Yeah. Love Cormier, though. Yeah. He's great. Cormier introduced me to Steve Murphy. Yep. Steve Murphy saved my career. That's right. And now he's going to help you. I'm going to go see him next week. Are you excited to start again? I can't wait. I'm not taking my body fat though. No, not yet. But I'll over time I'll take it. I'm You know what's going to happen, dude? I'm going to be jealous that you're going to ste I'm going to have to I know. I started looking at some properties there, too. It's so nice there. Orange County is a little cheaper than uh Yeah. I'm shocked in that area. Really? Wow. Yeah. So, make sure you guys like this video. Make sure you subscribe if you're not subscribed. More jaywalking to come. Yep. And uh always appreciate you guys. Uh remember the rivalry. Check into that. If you guys haven't seen any videos of me and Ronnie working to try to win that title, make sure you guys check it out. Okay. Talk to you guys.