All right, we're back. Trying to beat the heat a little bit. Yeah, it's not so bad in the morning when we when we get up. Yeah, I think the ideal time to get up and walk is around 6:00 a.m. to be honest. Is it? It gets light so early now. Well, yeah. You know, it's funny. When Drew was here last weekend, they came for uh like a mini V like a their anniversary. Uhhuh. Uh he said that it gets lighter so early here compared to Florida. Oh, really? Yeah. He's from He's in Florida, right? Yeah. Yeah, he lives in Florida. Yeah. But it's um I was supposed to go this weekend to Florida. Yeah. Why? Uh for Angie's girlfriend's birthday. Oh, but Capone's not feeling well. Yeah. So, he's down a little bit. Yeah, it's been it's been about a week. He's his stomach's been a little messed up. So, when she brought him in yesterday, you know, they just they gave him some medication. So, hopefully he gets a little better now. Okay. He's just been a little down since Daisy passed. It's been a little rigid. You know, it's normal. Yeah. So, uh so since we did le did our last jaywalk, obviously I don't know if we talked about Rean winning California, then Reno, obviously Tonio Burton. Um, we did talk about him, right? That we were kind of building up to the the Reno show. We didn't talk about Toronto. Yeah. Well, it just happened, right? Yeah, it just happened. So, Rean didn't win. Sash finally qualified. Yeah. And uh I think he deserved it. Yeah. Rean knew I think I think his body just was tired. You know, when you have that the big body, Dave, it's really hard to peak like that. Yeah, he said that. Yeah. But the season's just starting to crank now. I mean, Dubai, I mean, there's a lot of talk of Yeah. some guys doing Dubai. I mean, Nexzilla is doing it. What are the big names? Yeah, Nexzilla. Bet Ruse is, you know, he won last year. Okay. Um, I don't know. There was talk of Martin, but I don't think he's doing it. Bonick's in it. Oh. Uh, he still needs to qualify. No, he's qualified. He won Detroit, right? I'm trying to think who else um who else is on that list, Dave. Um I haven't I haven't seen I this just there's no list because it's not out yet. Oh, I think it's just uh who's who who stated they're doing there was someone else that popped up that surprisingly is do is jumping in it. But I mean that'd be a good show for Andrew Jack to just do you know he's right there, right? He's in Dubai. He's not going to do it. No. So, we've been uh we've been really busy, man. You know, with um the house. Yeah. The house, the products. Like, we're running a a special on TikTok right now. Oh, yeah. Yeah. But just with the carnitine just, you know, we're doing a promotion on there. Okay. But, you know, we're launching towards um we're trying to get ready for a canned drink. Doing a canned. Yeah. I haven't really I'm not going to put out the formula yet, but we do have do have the can uh drink testing going on right now. Is it going to be an energy drink? It's going to be So, yeah. Energy um like a cognitive drink. Oh, yeah. So, so uh I'm just trying to I have a formula. I'm just trying to get the pricing correct with it. Mhm. And then, you know, we'll mainly sell immediately out of the gate on Tik Tok and Amazon and uh just like we you know, kind of the products now website direct to consumer. We're having such great success at that. It's it's just worth it. That's great. Just a lot of a lot of uh continuous thought processes on everything. You know, we're constantly, you know, working on the promotions each week and trying to make sure everything flows correctly. It's hard when you're when you bundle packages together. Mhm. The website it gets a little difficult with that, but the uh the feedback's been tremendous. You know, we have a lot of the affiliates doing their part. Um really promoting it and it's going extremely well and obviously TRT Kingdom's really well now and uh training is going extremely well. Nice. I haven't I haven't talked about the fit for 52. Right. Right, man. 52, Dave, can you believe it? No. How's it feel? It's crazy how fast the years are going. I remember you're 50, you know. Yeah. Transformations for 50. Seems like yesterday. How do you feel heading into another birthday coming up? I'm trying not to think about it. No. No. Are you looking forward to getting out of the heat already a little bit? Yeah, I'm going to go see Jenny. That'll be nice. How's our prep coming along? She's great. Good. She's ahead this year. Practicing the routine. Healthy. Brand new routine. Okay. Yeah. Great. A lot of preparation for those girls to get the fitness stuff, right? Yeah. She found a really good gym to practice in with the right floor. Okay. So, she get doesn't get hurt. So, she's really happy about that. Yeah. I think she's going to do really well this year. Yeah. Have you heard from Mac truck or no any of that? How is the stanimal um response? It's been good. People are, you know, happy to hear what happened. A lot of French people get on there. I haven't seen that many yet. Okay. But he just posted on his Instagram. Oh, okay. Yeah. So, we've been wanting to film him for like a year now, right? Well, he's been and he kept telling me no, no, no, now I know why, you know. Well, hopefully he gets healthy and Yeah, I hope so, too. He's supposed to compete in France next. So, is that what he said? That's what he said. End of the year or Yeah, I think it's November. November, December. Okay. Yeah. I saw his mom and met his mom. That was nice. Yeah. Did you speak French to her? Of course. Yeah, we spoke French in the video before. So guys, anytime I'm at an expo and someone comes up that speaks French, I always say, "Dave, Dave, say something." So you I know. You know. Yeah, cuz it makes them feel a little more comfortable. Yeah, of course. Cuz not as many people speak French as Spanish. Right. Yeah. I don't know what show is next though. Do you know what pro shows are happening? I thought Dubai, but I think so. What's after that? I don't know. It's like Italy. Oh, we have Chicago. No. Yeah, but I don't think there's an open class. Oh, have you seen Keon? Yeah. Oh, man. He's a beast. Yeah. Coming along well, huh? I can't believe how lean he is too that far out. The games has stepped up. You know, people always ask what my comparison of my era versus the new era and there's some good guys. Oh, there's some good guys and there's some guys that maybe aren't as good, but I mean that's what you're going to have. I mean, has has anyone pushed past Ronnie Coleman status as far as physique-wise? Probably not. Been a long time. But Ronnie, I remember Ronnie season would be like heavy. Yeah. You know, we still he put some body fat on, but I see Keon, he never got out of shape the whole year. And somehow I think he stays on a good diet. Yeah. Somehow he still grows. Yeah. I think, you know, I think what's now, like with the science now, I'm going to stop right here just cuz um I think with the science now, it's a little smarter for these guys to to stay within striking distance, you know, like we used to You were doing that. Yeah, we I was, but at the same time, like I I got to the point where I was just doing the major shows. Remember, we were guest posing every week. So, we kind of we're kind of under a microscope where social media now is like the guest posing every minute. Yeah, that's so you got that pressure of like you can't really get big and out of shape unless you know like you can it just really that's you know it can get like Lee Priest or even like King Kamali who got like really big in the offse it didn't care it's I mean if you weren't guest posing remember you were kind of hidden under the clothes a lot of people weren't training with the tank tops on and all that so I think it's I think it's you know you have a lot more pressure that's the difference between today's bodybuilding and fitness versus you know what it does unless you're just going to post old pictures. But if you're out and about and you're you're having these meet and greets and you know you're trying to be someone of of uh of educational side, I think it's important to to stay in the best shape possible and try to you want to promote positive like bodybuilding, you know what I mean? And that's I think that's becoming more relevant that it's not just a kamicazi like just that kind of routine. I think yeah, Kevin used to stop training for months. Well, that's something tiny. I mean, look at his health now. I know. I mean, he seems to be doing well. He's doing cardio every day. He's doing some transformation online right now. Kevin, guys. So, you know, there's a lot of good people to follow. Even some of the the old school, you know, people always talk about, you know, my success pattern, how I still training all the time and and how I continue to do it. But, man, it's like what I love to do. Yeah. So, yeah, it's easy when you love it. Yeah, that's true. So, yeah. So, we're going to try to get Kiana in the channel. We're going to get Emily, too. Okay. Uh, she was out of town when I was filming. I didn't get a chance to ask. But who else did we talk about? I There's a lot of people coming to town, you know. Yeah, a lot of people will be will could be coming this summer. And uh, but hey, man, we'll keep up the content. Um, you know, who am I leaving out for Dubai? Someone else is going to jump on here and say, "You forgot about so- and so, but I haven't followed it that close." So, yeah. Yeah. Um, it's going to be a big one though, huh? Big show. Well, it's 140,000. Wow. First I heard I heard Pittsburgh was a lot. Like a hundred or something. 100 grand. First year first year. That's what Arnold used to give. Yeah. Back in the day. Well, now Arnold's what? I know. 17. Do you think the Olympia is going to step up? Not this year. No. Okay. No, I don't. cuz sometimes they'll say last minute uh the day of the show like even I think Arnold is just really gung-ho about he's really come back to bodybuilding. Yeah, if that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I love to see it. I mean the guy who wins that it's a big check. Yeah. I know that some of the other divisions say well why isn't it spread out? You know I know but you know the big draw is I know still been the men's side body. Not to say it's the only draw, but I still think, you know, there's a lot of of course a lot of no event. I mean, we sit here and talk about I mean, you can talk about classic and whatever else, but I think with Bumstead leaving, you know, it's just it's a question mark who's going to be the guy now, you know? I mean, Mike Somerfield's a great champ. I mean, Ers is Raone Wesley. I mean, uh, the kid from Texas, uh, that got third at the Arnold or whatever or second. Um, I forget. Why am I not thinking of his name right now? I You think it's wide open? Any any of these guys? Any think any of these guys can? It'll be fun. It'll be interesting. And there's new people coming up, too. Yeah. I mean, Terren Ruffin, he's amazing. Yeah, he's not new. Like, he's been doing this a while, too. But he kind of sat out a year to kind of revamp everything. Big question is see if Chris returns, you know? You think he is? You never know. Couple years away, you know. You never know what happens. Yeah, he's young, you know. I know he's young. What happens if What happens if the money comes up, you know? Ah, he could could be little incentive to get up there, you know. I don't care what anyone says. It's still about the money, you know. So, all right. Well, we'll wrap it up. Thank you guys so much uh for another episode. Dave and I, we are out and we'll see you at the next one. No mercy for you. No worries for you. That Game of Thrones go on you. I keep the script. I roll the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. You trying to shut