! Big J! I told you I haven't been in the office in a minute. It's nice to be here. Did it nice to look at the Sandado trophies? It's great. Yeah, it's really cool. This is J's journey. Who gave you this? I don't know where this came from. You have so many things from so many people. So here next to the Sandado trophies, another year. This is... I know. Could be the close-up video of the year. I can't believe. This could be the close-up video of the year. But you're not leaving for a minute like you're going to Christmas next week, right? Yeah, I'm going to go to Christmas. We could do a good training. Yeah, but if it is, I know a lot of people are tied up between Christmas and New Year, so I want to congratulate everyone on another, on a year 25. And for some people, it's great. Some people probably could be better. A lot of news. A lot of news going on right now. I know. A lot of social media discussion about the greatest errors. Ah, yes. Always. Always. We all think our error is the best. The question is, which one is truly the best? And they love to compare. I saw that Derek's a little bit on the defensive on him. I did see a really great post by Lee Haney this morning. That's how did I? And he said, guys, Derek's not the one that decides the championship. And I did see some 2007 comments, which was very controversial for Victor winning. And I always said, I was transparent about that, where granted, I think I was better one night than the other one. But in the end, the judges chose the winner. So instead of coming down in the athletes, because that was a really difficult time for me. Yeah. Because it's kind of, you know what it was, it was, everyone was like, yeah, Jay, you know, champ, champ, you know, but then kind of like the whispers of like, I don't know if you deserved it. And it's a very harsh feeling. And you don't feel as accomplished because, you know, you look at like 09 or 06. And you know, as time goes on, everyone seems to even discredit even some of the greatest victories of the champions. Because we hear more than ever now, you know, who could have beat Doreen Yates and his run. And Ronnie, like, you know, obviously, I think Phil was the most uncontested one, if anywhere. You know, you've seen the judging now switch guys around. There's no real protection of, although people think Hadi could have won a couple of those, you know, I mean, there's always, it's, that's what makes the sport. People don't understand always, like when you're sitting where the judges are, and then you're sitting 10 rows from that, or you're sitting five rows in front. There's probably more things that people see and have in their head as the ideal versus what, you know, they can come to a collaboration. I mean, if it really was, you know, remember, it's not up to one judge. It's a collaboration of them. And sometimes like the judges have someone first, they might have that guy second, and then they just kind of throw scores out. And, and, you know, they kind of come to a tally. That's why they have seven or 10. They're not always unanimous. It's not always. And it's all, it's sometimes it's not always like, you know, there's always those tough decisions, like the Kniff Walker, Derek Lunsford early in the year at the Pittsburgh show. You know, we all have our favorites, but in the end, I think people have to understand that, you know, people, people, it's their job. I think Derek, I think Hottie, I think Samson, I think Andrew Jack, I think all those guys are great representations of what bodybuilding is because they all have unique traits. Andrew has the height and he has the tie ins where how he's got that crazy conditioning. And, you know, listen, we can't help it if someone's height is not what the norm was. Like we've had Mr. Olympias that switched back and forth. And I was five nine. Phil was Ronnie was five 11. You know, Dorian was five 10. And I mean, but you had, you know, Franco Colombo there at one time. You had Arnold who was a little taller. You know, Brandon Curry was five eight. Dexter was, you know, five, what seven. Yeah. I mean, you had you had a lot of different heights with these people. And I think, you know, we just have to give credit to the champions. They are the champions for the year. I think Derek really set a really big benchmark last year with a lot of wins on a lot of major shows. And whether people think he shouldn't have shouldn't have won, he did. And in the end, like here we are, you know, and I'm blessed. And I wanted five. I got four, you know, and, you know, could I got one in 2001? I mean, people forget because that wasn't social media era. But, you know, I was ahead by six points. That one's things. So so. But you know what? I didn't cry about it. You know, I did not compete the next year. But I think I think you were kind of you weren't expecting to win. I wasn't expecting to win. But I kind of had this. Just think about that that era where it was a magazine era and the champion never lost. I know. And now like you don't know what's going to happen. You know, there's no one's no one's protected anymore, man. It's more fun. It is more fun like that. So everyone should enjoy the time. So when when Derek goes back at Dorian and says the greatest time of bodybuilding, there's a lot of meanings to that. It's not to say, hey, we're better than you. And people take that as like, oh, it's an arrogant statement. It's not. It's it's stating that we're in great times. The money's high. Yeah. You don't know who's going to win. He came back to win it after losing it. Like he did something that hadn't been done since I did. And there's so much that field is so close. And there's so many like you've got Martin coming up and you got Hunter Labrada coming back next year. And we still have the guys like like Tony O'Burton and like the Regans and the Krizos and all these guys, Brandon Curry, who's still hanging in there. So good. Like you've got so many great guys. And I mean, he got William Bonac who came back. Like everyone said he was done. He's best ever. Look at Sean Clarita. Arguably some of the best looks he's had. And he's winning open hand. Like now there's a controversy. Let him do that. We talked about this last J walk. Yeah. To 12 versus open. Like what do you do? You know, the problem is, is he's just not big enough. Compared to. Yeah. I mean, we saw this with the key on, you know, with Prague. So it's a great time for bodybuilding because it's uncertain who's going to win. And they Arnold is it's coming up and 750 prize. I mean, I won 100 guys with those trophies over there, you know, does not kill you. Not at all. I'm so happy because listen, Dave, I was so successful in in and outside and to win Arnold Classic, man, coming from Sterling mass. Like watching Terminator 2 in 1991 at Sears Town Mall and Lemonster walking in and saying, man, I remember walking out saying, I have to bodybuild. And I hadn't even started really yet. I had just started thinking, OK, I'm going to join the gym. I think around that time I went and I think it launched July 4th of 91. And I think they joined the gym on August 3rd with the 300 bucks. So I was like, I already had that was just fire that I even read. Don't look at me, please. Yeah. So we'll edit it out. So, yeah. So, you know, I saw that Terminator movie and that was it. It was the final straw. I said, I have to bodybuild. You know, how were you when that came up? 1990. I was. I think it turned 18. Yeah. Yeah. August 3rd. So I joined the I remember being on my birthday being at Gold's Gym in Worcester, putting that $300 down on the membership because it came out in July, right? I'll never forget. I drove down there in my black RX 7. And I pulled in there and I'm like, I had my money from work in the concrete you know, cash, I paid cash 300 bucks. And I said, because back then we didn't like there were no credit cards or we didn't use checks or anything really. That was exciting when you first got a gym membership. I mean, I said, holy shit. Like I walked in and I saw those neon lights of Gold's Gym and I saw the little juice bar. They had a juice bar where they'd make these these multi-power like drinks. They were these cans then. And I'd be like, oh, my God, I'm going to bodybuild and I'd watch the guys walk around in those bright neon sweatshirts. And the war. And I used to see guys in the vein. Like they'd pull their sleeves up and I'd see their arms and they had the veins. And yeah, I remember going in like a G and C store. And I remember seeing the guy behind the desk at the Sears Town Mall and like I saw his arms and I saw the veins and you could tell like the skin was thin and like the I'm like, man, I want my forearms to look like that. And that's what's like that was my goal, man. And it wasn't about to be Mr. Olympia. Like I didn't really know what that was. It was just about like, man, I got to get to California. I got to be Arnold, you know, I got to get I got to see the I got to see the Hollywood sign. I got to Universal Studios. And I need to witness Beverly Lake, Rodeo Drive. Oh, wow. Because you only see it in the films, man. But you didn't have a car to to be able to get around and see all that. When you first went. I couldn't rent one. I just we took up. Yeah, we took taxis. Oh, wow. Yeah, we took. I think we took buses or taxis. Wow. So we wanted to do anything. We. Oh, dude, if it took all day. I don't think the bus going out. I think we took a bus. Yeah, I think we like a bus to Universal Studios. And like, I don't even know how much it costs them. But we got to see like the Jaws exhibit. And like, yeah, it's amazing because I think a lot of stuff is still the same. But yeah, yeah, yeah. Like California Dreaming, man. That's what you do when you come from Sterling Mass and like you see all the TV shows. Everything I saw, bro, was based in California. I mean, Beverly Hills Cop and all this. It was the dream. The dream. I know I talk about this a lot, guys, and reminisce, but you guys. I understand a lot. You guys understand the passion. The main thing. I meant a lot. So I, you know, for me to go back to. You know, when you say when you're mad about how much money someone's making versus when we were. That's that's just being a sour era guy. I'm so happy for the guys, you know, I'm so happy. Eric went over a million dollars. Right. That can change someone's life. One point. Do I think. Yeah, but that's dude, that's life changing money. I don't care about like, I know things cost a lot more now, but he's got a family. He had another child. We built his own gym. Yes. Did also. I'm going out there January 17th. Oh, nice. For his opening. It looks really nice. He's doing his grand opening. So I'll be there. So Sean, oh, it's got his own gym. Eric's going to. So it's great. Yep. We'll hit. We have LA Fed Expo. Second week and then the week after I'll be there. So let's walk a little bit. I just wanted to come in and kind of start this and talk a little bit about that because it's in the news and we're going to probably launch this next couple of days. Yeah. You know, let's let's support the guys, you know what I mean? Because listen, it's going to be controversial. Placing is always in people's eyes because everyone has their favorites, man. And like, I say this all the time, like just because I think Andrew Jack has the best ability to be the biggest and baddest guy out there. That doesn't mean I don't support like Hottie Chupin, who realistically on paper should win this on a classic, you know, great, great body. You think it's normal? It's normal for every guy who wins the show to at some point, at some point, always be criticized and you went through it. Yeah. Rodney went through it. Dorian went through it. We all went through it when you're winning several in a row and they expect you to be better every time. That's really hard to do. So yeah, people turn. Some people turn. Yeah. Always. You remember, we had the riders and then people just weren't supportive and. But hey, it's honesty. And I think today transparency is more it's more in place than it was years ago. So I'm just, you know, we're blessed to be in this time and witness it. Yeah. And I look forward to seeing the Arnold. I look forward to seeing what Derek's going to do over the next year. Like I said, I'll be out of the gym in January and, you know, let's let's rise up and let's support everyone, you know? Yeah. Let me know what you guys think. Yeah. All right. Let's walk. Cool. I was taking me in my car on the way over. I was like, oh, this is Arnold Classic weather this morning. We're kind of festive a little bit. She put up a snowman on the house. Really? Yeah. Yeah. To go into the cold weather, my buddy just sent me a message from Vermont and he's like, hey man, it's 15, it's raining here, but it's supposed to be in the single digits. Like you ready? Yeah. So big shout out to Dennis and Vermont, man. He keeps you updated on the weather out there. Okay. That's right at a border. It's right close to where my brother has a house in Vermont. You know, I'm not sure. Yeah, my brother has a house in Vermont, you know. Okay. So he goes up there and... Is he ski or... No, no, he just hunts, you know. Oh, right. My brothers are outdoors in my big time. Yeah. They bow hunt and they... Oh, shit. Like they shoot whatever. Did you ever go hunting with them? No. Yeah, it's... But it's been pretty chilly here in the mornings a couple of days. But man, the days are so warm. I feel we've had like a really mild December so far. So far, yeah. Because it's really like, remember, dude, it's... We get through December, we only have January, February of cold weather. Yeah. And then it's kind of like March starts to really... I remember, you know, when I built the house, it was coming out in March and it was really warm. Yeah. But LA was awesome. I went last week and obviously, you know, we got to shoot at Golds. We put that videos up, right? Yeah. But like I was after, you know, we shot that day. You know, I didn't go back to the gym, but I was doing cardio in the hotel. But, you know, I ate breakfast sitting on the patio every day. Oh, yeah. And we did a couple of nights. So the fog rolled in over there in the marina. Pretty heavy. Yeah. But it was a good time. I mean, I liked the vibe and I think people's... What were people's perception of the gym? They liked it. The comments were good. Really? Yeah. They liked the format and they liked to see the behind the scene. And, you know, it was just there a couple of weeks before that. Then I put out this little video, but this was more interesting. Obviously, this is where it... Did you drive by Venice Max Muscle or you didn't take a cruise by it? When you left? There's no more. There's no more? No, but did you drive by the one that used to be fresh to go next door? Yeah, there's nothing. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. No, they moved that one on Main Street, remember? St. Amont. No, I know that, but did you actually drive by the location just to see what it looked like? Yeah, it's a restaurant. Oh, okay. It's all gone. No traces ever been there. Yeah. I wonder where all our memorabilia is. I don't know, but it was a lot. The guy got it through the store. Yeah. He bought Venice and he moved it. They don't give those big checks on stage anymore. Remember they were giving the big checks? Did they give... they don't give every individual... A show recently. I've seen, yeah. Really? Might not be the Olympia or... Well, I think it's in Prague. Could be, yes. But I don't think the Olympia gives out the... Because I'll remember all the plate... Like I had seconds a lot and I had the big check. Yeah. It said 75,000, right? Was that the... was that normal or? The checks kept getting better and bigger. I remember the first one to give me was 04, I think. How much was it? 75 grand, I thought. No? Was it second? Yeah, that was second place. Yeah, I think it was 75,000, bro. And then the checks kept getting bigger. I mean, the size of the... Yeah, well, the 200, I think I had that one at last. Yeah. One of the last ones, you know. I love having those checks. So, what's the plan for the holidays? I'm gonna go see the kids. Oh, okay. California. Do you know how long or... Just three days. Just Christmas or... Yeah. That's exciting. Yeah. What are you gonna do? Well, I just have Christmas with them. Eat good food and... First time in years. So, the whole family together, that's pretty cool. Yeah. Are you excited or? Yeah, I am. Being that California weather, man. Oh, yeah. I was thinking about... Last week was awesome. Yeah, I was trying to figure out... I mean, the weather, you couldn't beat it. I think it was perfect, to be honest. It was. Although at night, when the sun's gone... Yeah. It's chilly, dude. And you used to ride your motorcycle in there? Yeah. Wow, you had your gloves and everything, huh? Oh, yeah. It would get cold. Sometimes it would rain. I see those people riding those motorcycles. I'm like, damn, like... Yeah. Some people, that's their only transportation. Yeah. It's the only smart way to transport with all the traffic, right? Because it took you a long time, you said, to get home. I loved it, though. It would take me about an hour and 15 minutes versus 30 hours. No, no. It took you a long time to get home from when we saw each other. Oh, dude. Yeah. It took me... 2 and a half hours plus to drive to Vegas. Someone said 6 and a half, maybe? Yeah. Yeah, I came home like it was past midnight. You're doing a lot of construction over here, will I? Oh. Yeah, I think they're building... I don't know what they're doing. We're doing one of the houses, I think. Okay. That'll be my house soon. Ah! Construction nonstop. Yeah, so, like I said, guys, obviously we did more of a conversation in the house. But a lot of this online support and people rely on social media a lot now to get news and information. That's true. There's a lot of minute to minute stuff, so that's always something that you have to keep in mind. But we're trying to still keep everyone updated. We appreciate your engagement another year. Yeah, I love it. Hopefully we'll see a lot of you guys at FitExpo. That's coming. That our traveling, that is the kickoff event of the year. It's coming. Onoclassic, FIBO. All the major ones. You're going back to FIBO? Yes, yeah, I'll be there. Wow. Yeah, so make sure you guys comment, let me know what you guys think. And once again, man, keep crushing it, huh? And we'll, if we don't see you by the end of the new year, happy new year. And let's go. All right. Thank you.