2008. I knew that was who was going to park there. I'm like, there's not there's not one space to park at SJ Park. It's right here. It's my own VIP spot. Glad you miss me. How are you, man? The trunk. Jeez, you're so [\h__\h] big. It's so good. Yeah, man. Holy crap. I just saw Eddie. I'm like, man, what are you guys doing over here? Eddie's big. Eddie's [\h__\h] big. I saw you. You dude, last time I saw you at the Olympia, you worked. Well, man, I was I remember I was right after the shoulder thing and stuff. Yeah, that was I wasn't even going to go. Uh, but I met some stores for the sub company. So, and I'm glad that they got me down there cuz I met a lot of guys I never met before. It was really good cuz it was good for us to go. It was so great to see all those people in the stands and it was nice. It was It was so good. Ah, it was more good motivation seeing people I beat in the first call out. So, seeing that firsthand and knowing that I could have been there, you know, so that's what been motivating me to get back on. So, I got to tell that story because you guys had posted a picture on Instagram with Slank, you and Eddie. And Jay sent me that picture like look at these guys. You got to go shoot those guys. And I would have loved to catch you guys all three, but he was just leaving. So, I'm like, "No, I got to go to San Diego. It's been so long. I saw you at Flex's gym." Yeah. 27th. So, 27th of March is when he's opening. Yeah. I was just going to come. Yeah. I'm not going to be able to come to for the opening, but I'm going to come for sure. Okay, you better because you know who wants to train with you. I heard, right, Daisy? It's good to see you, man. I am so glad. I'm so glad you came. Yeah, man. That's awesome. Let's get in there. Back in San Diego, you guys, for JTV, and I got these two big MF over here. Unbelievable. I I when I saw that Instagram post that Jay saw, he's like, "You got to go to San Diego." That was another request. Said, "You got to go to San Diego and film film Eddie and and Sergio because they look awesome." He probably just said Sergio. He kind of say, "No, actually, you know what? We're just adding that in to make No, no, no. You both How How much do you weigh right now?" Um, so yeah, me and Aceto got to start prep Monday and I was 306. Okay. So, it's less than it's less than what we were for the Arnold. Were you at 310 when I saw you? Okay. So, just like 4 lbs. He over 305. You said you about 305 right now. Unbelievable. You guys You guys You guys This is what happens when when you train together. This is like I know it's only 2 days a week and stuff, but uh I want to talk afterward after the training to see why you chose those two body parts cuz you only train twice a week. But thanks for having me with you guys. It's been too long. I'm glad to be back in San Diego and people are so excited. I've already told put it out there. I'm shooting Sergio and Eddie. People are like, "Oh my god. Oh my god." So I had to put this out that quick. Thanks you guys. Yeah, it's been a while. So every time he does a set I like to let him know how much weight Nick Walker does cuz they were battling out in Chicago and then right at the end they switched them and Nick got him. So whatever he's working on I like to remind him you know Nick does a little bit more weight. I'm just saying it's all good. It's okay. who who plays higher than him at Arnold buddy have almost almost rookie Go. Come on. Take those two more. Five more. Come on. First place. Come on. Nice. You're not talking [\h__\h] dude. You're not doing it right. Heat. Heat. Show. Okay. Hey, sir. Oh, we don't got time for this, dude. Heat. A Yeah. Heat up here. I don't [\h__\h] Shut. One more. All right, D. Just go for miners. 1 2 3 Too much. for Trump. It just kind of makes me wonder if I just lose the nationals, you know, who would have been on top. I think I would have been there. This is going to be the first time we went against each other since national. I was just going to add this. Yeah, man. Make your 1 2 9. One more. Three. Two. Come on. One more. So then since I lost to Klo at the Arnold, I figured if you can't beat him, join him. So I figured the elbow sleeves are the secret and that's the only reason he beat me. So now you don't have an advantage anymore, Steve. There you go. I'll make sure he sees it. Yeah. Well, yeah. He's the only He's the only open guy with them. It's a good brand. I like uh I like these guys. It's the people that inv are involved in my life. Yeah, Luke's a good guy. I filmed him with Nick Walker uh a few months ago at Gold. Remember that? Yeah. Yeah. I think last year in Venice. Yes. In Venice. That's the first time I ever saw Nick. Yeah. He was still an amateur. Yes. That's right. That was before you, I think. I know. I was like, Jesus, who is that? Marcus Rule. And then it was a big big hit. Heat. Heat. Heat. Selena Selena front desk front desk. Shut up. All right, back in the gym in San Diego, my good buddies, Sergio and Eddie. I'm so glad I made the drive. You know, it's almost 5 hours from Vegas to come here. Oh, so we came straight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't I couldn't I couldn't wait to come here. I was uh Jay wanted me to come, but I was I was so glad to see you guys. I didn't get to see you at the Olympia. You were not in in Florida. Did you? You didn't go, right? I missed it. Yeah, unfortunately. He was in [\h__\h] Tulum, Mexico. Oh, you Oh, that's right. I think you were on vacation. I think I remember that. Yeah, I think Oh, that's okay. That's cool. That's cool. It was a good show though, Sergio. How was that for you? I want to talk about it because you just told me off camera and you said, "Oh, I'll save it for the camera." I'm really glad you came because I think it was such a needed break for all of us to actually go to a real show, a real Olympia with a bunch of people with crown. How did you feel watching the show? You should have been on that stage, I got to tell you. Um, well, first I was like really depressed because my shoulder hurt thing happened. Oh yeah. And then it was even crazier. I got hiccups for like 3 days straight. That's what actually messed me up more than anything. Couldn't eat, couldn't sleep, started losing my mind. So, when someone asked me to go to the Olympia, I was like, "Man, no way." Immediately, I was like, "I'm not going." Uh, I didn't want I really didn't want to go because I knew I should have been up there competing, uh, if they would have just had the show in Australia, I would have got my points and I would have been up there and who knows what I would have placed at. But also myself, I I just wasn't confident in myself and I felt like I should be doing work, not going on a trip. But because of cosmic now, I don't get that opportunity to be able to just disappear and just kind of go zero dark 30 like I like to. But it actually ended up working out for me because I was kind of like coerced into going. Not only did I get to hang out with you and I got to spend some time with Aceto, I don't remember the last time I've been able to spend time with Aceto and it wasn't in in a prep or for a competition. You know, it's like the little time that we get to be ourselves and be normal. It's nice. Um, but on an added bonus, I got to run into John Meadows and now me and him are working together and we're training. It's cool. And man, that just came out. We just got a workout in together while I was out there. Um, I love him. And man, he really is. He's very rare. He's a rare breed. It doesn't make sense to be good. He's really the only person from the '90s not bashing today's bodybuilding. Really, to tell you the truth, he's the only one who doesn't have to compare his era to this era. You know what he does? He just helps this era instead of like trying to have pointless conversations of which one was better or not. Why don't you like give your hand to the guys that need it? You know, there's tons of guys in the '90s that could be helping us, but they're too busy trying to tell us how much better they were than us. And Meadows is just different. He's able today better, right? So, I'm so happy for that. I think that's going to be a really good combo with the him because I feel like they both will work good together. Um, so is he helping you remote or how does that work cuz he's Yeah. So, right now, so yeah, he's in Ohio. Uh, so he wrote me up a program that I've been following and then we're just staying in contact with that as we get closer to Chicago um and Arnold. I'll probably fly out there, do some, you know, living with him and maybe try and get him to come out to San Diego. Be great. Yeah. So, but you know, in all going out to Orlando was really good. Um, it really helped me because see some people and I talk about this all the time. Some people like to prep and do shows like Eddie. He does it on such a positive note. It's just about positivity and worrying about himself. I need something to irritate me. I need something to bother me and eat at me because when I'm dying out or I'm getting weak or I'm making excuses why not to do another set or another rep, uh, I picture someone and it's usually in a negative way. It's usually something that bothers me so much that it forces me to do another one. And seeing a keen in sixth place when he's never beat me before actually was such a good thing for me. And I and I when I see him, if he likes me or not, I'm going to tell him that. I'm going to tell him that seeing him, you know, not place what he wanted to place over and over again and still at the end of the year, he ended up beating everybody who beat him. And that's really motivating to see that and to use that in my mind. So, I do want that rematch and I'm excited to kind of get back and see what I would do if I had plays for the Olymp. Awesome. Eddie, I want to talk to you and I have to say, man, you both look great, but I've seen Sergio last year. We prepped for uh flying on the radar before the Arnold and he was big as a house and he's almost there. I think he's like four or five lbs shy of what he was when you started Arnold, right? Correct. It's further out. Yeah. Oh, so actually it's almost the same, right? But you I've never seen you this big. So, of course, um when I saw you in the picture, I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] what's going on with Eddie?" and I was really happy for you because you've been doing this for a while, but it seems like this year it's clicking for you. Talk to me a little bit about what you've been doing different this year and why you look this way. I think honestly it's um before the previous years it was I was doing too many shows and not taking a really long long enough offse uh not long enough growing season. So I think that has a lot to do with it. Okay. I'm really giving myself my body time to really take advantage of the extra food, the extra rest. Um, and it's really uh it's really helping out. You told me off you told me off camera you you kind of uh tweaked your training a little bit cuz what have you done different? You know what works for me now? You know, I'm 42 years old. You know, I know I look like much younger, but Yeah, much younger. Anyways, uh I notice that my body responds more to when I'm keeping tension much longer. A little slower focusing on the negative, focusing on controlling the weight all the way through. And of course, like there's sometimes where I go like just balls to the wall. You push you push some weight. Yeah. You go heavier than than I'm used to, but that's fun too sometimes. But the majority of my training, I go slow and controlled and it's it's really it feels great. So it's good on your joints. It's good on your tendons, all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Sergio's still young. You don't have the You don't have any issues with joints and tendons, do you? No, it was just that shoulder and really it was just me sleeping on it. And that's just kind of How weird is that? I What happened to your shoulder? Says I slept on it wrong. I know. I slept on it. That's it. I mean, I guess that's proof that I'm getting big because now I'm so big, I'm literally injuring myself. Uh, but, you know, if you think about Branch, what took him out, took Victor out, it was all their own body weight, you know, slipping, falling. That's a lot of weight. So, I think I think that's something that we don't really think about when you're getting into the pros is as you get heavier. You have to do certain things a lot different. You're both over 300 lb right now. You told me you're 305. You're 304. So, you're almost the same weight. How does that How do you live with that? that I remember when Jay was 305. He was tired all the time. His feet were killing him and his back. How do you handle that weight? When I first got to 300 lb roughly 3 4 years ago, I was struggling, man. I was exhausted. I couldn't tie my shoes without, you know, the huffing and puffing. It was tough. It really was. But I think now that my body got kind of grown into it, my body composition is obviously way different. Yeah, I was going to say both your body fats are fairly low for being 300 lb. doesn't like you're, you know, 300 lb of jelly. So, um I think the condition you still do, are you doing cardio or no? Right now? Not right now. Not right now. What about you, sir? You do cardio? No. No. No. No. Wow. That's awesome. So, your metabolism is not going. Yeah. I diet for me starts Monday. I need I need to do 19 weeks. I diet a little bit longer than you. So, Aceto's already sent me the diet. That starts Monday. So, it's go time now. So, no more cake for me. That's it. All right. What about you? When when do you start? Pretty. Yeah, pretty soon because we're planning doing the same show. So, okay. I want to talk about that. So, you both competed in the nationals. Uh, obviously obviously Sergio won that round. Obviously, you're you're both doing you're both doing the uh the uh the same show, the Chicago Pro, which is Sergio's hometown. Why did you guys decide to do the same show? I'm curious. We've been saying to do a show together for a while. He just did Brazil. There was a couple shows he did that were just not going to work for me to do the Arnold and then I did the Arnold and then we know we were going to do Australia. So when I got stuck out there, I was there and he did Chicago, which was Atlanta. Okay. So it just worked out. We were just always in a different schedule. But we've been saying it, we've been saying it since I moved here. You moved here, show together because, you know, I've been talking about it that I don't think there was any workout partners that like back in the day they would train together, you know, together anymore, but that's not true anymore. Now you get you got uh Brett and Martin in Colorado and they've been killing it. They've been staying lowkey. Not a lot of people are talking about them. They're destroying it. Um Matt Bersikott and your boys back in the day Perry and the Haney that was like you can name Tom back in the day. Flex Wheeler and Coro are the epito and second and third. So there's and Hunter and Hunter and that Texas crew they're starting to step it up. So you know it's time for us to represent or trying to represent Southern California because unfortunately I think Southern California is now dying. Venice is dead. LA's dead. You You may both have to move to Vegas. I'm sorry. I'm trying to bring all my friends to Vegas. I don't know if you've noticed. No, we're trying to we're trying to move people back down to San Diego. So, until you change your cover, we're not coming back. Just so you know, things have changed so much here. I know. It's tough. It's tough. Luckily, I was telling you off camera, this gym here is unbelievable. You still This is like really all the pro the most concentration of pros you can have in Southern Cal. and and the owners are great and the gym is great. They have all this new equipment. They got outside, they're inside now. So, you guys are in a good spot and and when I when I was still living in LA and I would come to San Diego, it's like a different world. It's not the same. The vibe is much different. Absolutely. It's good. You can feel the difference. You get a good thing going on here. Yeah. Yeah. Now that he placed fifth Chicago, I couldn't remember. I think it was the fifth and cal and then you don't even know what he placed. Fourth, right? Fifth and fourth. Fifth and fourth. So now that he's like in that in the mix, I think people now are going to have to look at him and that's something that I've been really trying to yell in his ear is that now they're now the door's open. You know, before he would enter a show, he'd be he'd look really good and he kind of gets kind of pushed to the back. And it's just how it is. You know, when you do the Cal, who's the superstar? You get Nathan coming out here. There's just tons of names. Yeah. So, unfortunately, you know, he wasn't really getting the look. He could have, but now the door's open and now he has to really shock and put up. You know what's funny though? Even though I placed top five last year, it was a frustrating and annoying. Like, you know, these these YouTubers at the shows, they would always show pictures and like say, "Yeah, this person was, you know, tight in the glutes and blah blah blah." And they go along the top five and they came to me. Yeah. Eddie got fifth place, $1,000. was the closest with Aceto and then they move on. I said that was it. I'm like, man, like that's all I gave you guys? Huh? And then Yeah. So, it's just frustrating that even though I place in the top, it's like they don't really talk too much about it, you know? So, I want to I think it'll be different this year. I'm really um I remember how I felt when I saw him last year with such a good foundation. And we talk about the oxygen being so important and I think we both have it this year. I think this year your foundation is very very good and we're so far I mean it says 19 weeks out you're only going to get better. Um I'm really excited for you guys. The question is what will we be calling the next series leading up to the show? I don't know. I'm going to have to leave it up to Sergio to do that because he's got a really good Maybe they'll put some names in the comments. They can they can decide what the next series will be called. So there you go for the Sergio says for you guys the fan give some suggestion. That was his his idea to call it Larry under the radar. Of course, we can't say that no more anymore. So, which is a good thing. It's a good thing. Um, I'm hoping to see you guys in Vegas. You got to come check out the Dragons Layer Flex and I know uh Jay would love to train with you guys. He insisted on for me to come here today. Uh, so we're excited for you guys and then best of luck over the next 19 weeks. All right. Yeah. All right. I missed my ass. It's okay. That always when he sees me that always happens. He gets excited, you know. All right, guys. Thanks for having me. Awesome.