 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx All of them. Yeah, so it was one of those spots, like an old school spot. I like that stuff, like the old school equipment. We just don't really, at the time, rather we didn't really have that style of gym in Vegas. So I fell in love with that. Then I started working here. And then as my clientele grew and my business grew, I started branching out to different gyms and popping around. And then this last year, I saw an ad that they were trying to sell it. And I was like, it didn't say the name. It just described the gym. Oh really? I didn't say the name on the ad. And I was like, they were describing it, hardcore gym, old school dumbbells, whatever. I'm like, that's the lift factor I noticed. So then I reached out and here we are today. Yeah, it's crazy. That's awesome. How old are you Brandon? I'm 31 now. Wow. 31. That's young, that's great. Yeah, so it's exciting stuff, man. It's exciting stuff. Very cool, you wanna go inside and take a look? Let's do a little tour. We changed the whole place from, I mean maybe your viewers have seen it in the past, but it looks completely different now. All right, go ahead. I'll follow you. Oh, off there, okay. See ya. Yeah, see you later. All right, so we didn't do much up front just yet. So it looks like the OG lift factory. Yeah. This guy just stands here all day. I don't know what to do. Yeah. That's what he does. Yeah. So basically we changed everything. We started with, I walked in and they had the old school like bright fluorescent lights. I brought like a darker vibe to it. We did kind of spotlights over each machine. So when people are filming, it really like, you know, it pops. So something different. We brought, they previously had a leg room, but the lift factory always was known for like having a really deep like powerlifting culture. And I love that. Like that's how I started out powerlifting and before I got in the bodybuilding. And it was like two worlds I had in the back. So it was powerlifting here and then different machines spread out through the gym. So what I did was like, okay, we took the leg room out and we made like a powerlifting room. So that's like one of my favorite spots in the gym, even though I don't even do it right now. But then we started with just servicing all the equipment, reorganizing it. We put the dumbbells back there. I like that. It's a good place for it. Yeah. And wall space in gyms is like so valuable. You don't even realize it, you know? So that had murals on the back. I took it and put a giant mirror, custom mirror all across the back. Nice. And we added a bunch of new pieces. Like we put this arsenal piece in. One of the first gyms, one of the first gyms I started training at was the Golds Gym off the Lake Mead here. Yes. That was like my spot, dude. I loved that spot. And if you remember, they had all the hammer strength stuff in there. So I don't know if it's just like I grew up off of that stuff, but I had to have a hammer strength incline. Yeah. What else did we add? We added like a body master fly, which is a great piece. This hoist fly is an amazing piece here. Oh, yes. So we kind of mixed chest and arms and shoulders up front here. Got a little bit of prime. Okay, nice. So you get a good variety of different brands. Yeah, and then with the leg equipment, we just brought it and put it in the middle of the gym. Okay. So we got a brand new hammer strength extension. This is one of my favorite pieces in the entire gym. So funny. But this is one of my pieces that we trained. I think Golds Gym Venice has this piece. The old side decks, hamstring curl. Yes. They got the alligator leather on it. You know, it's funny. It's just different, you know. Yeah, yeah. Oh, you're good. You said half the half you were carrying or what? Side decks. So yeah, I've been trying to add different pieces. We added this body master leg press here. Okay, okay. I like the variety of brands because I think each brand has some very, very good piece. Yeah, yeah. And if you stick to only one brand, you can't get the best of everything, right? Well, some of the stuff is just timeless too. Yes. I like the new stuff, but I have like a weird niche in respect for like the old school like body masters, your Nugila's, your side decks, stuff like that. We have legs here. And then we kept obviously that back line all across the wall there. Oh, yes. That's a vintage lift factory. Yes, totally. You see that, do you know where you are? Yeah. And what I did, I don't know if you, maybe the camera can pick it up, maybe it can't, but each bodybuilder has its own spotlight, which I think is really cool. So in white. Nice. It's just different, you know? Yeah. And then I got the guy doing graffiti right now. So we're gonna do the lift factory right up there. Yeah, you're still not done. What's it gonna say? The lift factory. Okay. Yeah, I figured. And then they'll show you guys the powerlifting room too. Oh, this piece is crazy too. The side lateral. Yeah, it's a good one. Body master side lateral. That's a good one. Yeah. You like this one? Yeah, I had it in the gym in Massachusetts. Oh really? That was really cool. Yeah, they had all body masses. I would have loved to see that gym. Do you have any pictures? I'm not sure I have. Not really, because we only have Polaroids then. Oh, geez. 18, 20, 25. I was on Cholus 1991. 1991? Oh, geez. Great, I love this piece. Sick. And then, yeah, this is the powerlifting room right here. So we put all the competition benches in here, drill them all into the ground. That was a pain in the ass. But it looks much more organized now. Yeah, it's more space efficient, it seems like. Yeah, yeah. You want to be able to walk around too. Right, you can't pump it to machines. The old owners did great though. They have some really, like, they have a good eye for equipment. Yeah. You know? At least I think so. Maybe I'm a little biased. Yeah. So yeah, this is the whole spot. And then we just remodeled everything. It was always known for that really hardcore type of gym. But now I just want to blend the cleanliness with the hardcore. When did you actually acquire that? December 1st. December 1st? Oh my God. Yeah. Really? Wow, OK. We came in and just got ready to work. Yes. So, yeah. Wow. What do you think? That's awesome. I like the hardcore gyms anyway. I told them I couldn't get behind this machine. I know. What do you mean? He's too big. Oh yeah, no, no, I know. We're still fine too. I was trying to load up. We're only 30 some days in. So can you give me a second? I couldn't fit there. That is a sick piece though, then. It's inverted. All right. So, Brandon, tell me, if people want to come and train here, can they get a day pass? Can they? How do we do to a? What do you do to a? Yeah, what I've been doing, we've been signing up a ton of people right now. OK. What I've been doing for people is it's $25 day pass. OK. And if they like the gym, I just credit it towards their membership. OK. So that's the easiest way to do it. They come in, check it out, get to test everything, and see how they like it, try the equipment, try some different stuff. And what do you have as far as monthly, yearly, six months? It's a monthly. So up until February 1st. February 1st, we're going to change everything. Our monthly is $69 with a 12-month contract. OK. And then we're doing like a couple's pass, which is $99. Comes out on the first. And then you get to bring a guest, basically. OK, nice. Yeah. So it's like a guest pass thing. Great. And how can people hit you up so they can actually? Email thelifthack3.com on our website too. I have a little portal. You can just message on there. OK. DMs? DMs, yeah. OK. I'm on Instagram every day 24-7. OK, great. So that helps a lot. Are you here during the day so you can sign people up? I'm pretty much sleepy right now. OK. Where's the bedroom? Pretty much sleepy. So I'm here all day. Yeah. So yeah. OK, great. It's a great spot, yeah. All right. Give the phone number to? 702-829-1012. OK. We'll put all the information in the video. Yeah, I appreciate that. Brother, thank you so much for giving me up the tour. For sure. Champ, I'm glad we came back. That was my idea. I was wondering if I should come yet. He said I wanted to be ready for you. Oh. I think it was ready enough. No, when you dropped it, I was like, OK. Because I didn't tell anybody. So then you had sat on the podcast and Craig texted me. He's like, I think you can go watch Jay's podcast. What the hell are you talking about? So then I watched it. I'm like, all right, let's talk about it now. So then I posted. No, I really appreciate that, though. He didn't know. He didn't know? When I brought it up, I said, you know, Brandon Fleahan owns it now, and he goes, no, he didn't. I just saw him the other day. He didn't tell me. Yeah, Craig's cool. He's such a nice guy, dude. Such a nice guy. I said, so yeah, we got to pump it up, you know? And then I saw you blasted it everywhere. Yeah. Yeah, I finally posted it for sure. So now we're going to get into the. Now I just wanted to be a space where I walk in up proud of it. You know what I mean? It's got to represent me now. Of course, yeah. So it's getting there, though. We're right there now. It's coming along. I'm happy with it. That's awesome. Congratulations. Thank you. All right. Appreciate it. All right. So JTV, our first video of 26. That's right. You believe it's 26 already? I can't believe it. Usually we're doing our first workout in Goldschirm, Venice. That's right. And we're just there. So this is the closest thing to to giving you guys kind of something new at the beginning of the year. So we always start the new year with like, hey, what's our resolutions? What are we doing? I'm not run to set resolutions on what I do. You guys kind of know on a day to day what I have going on now, being off the stage and focusing on promoting shows, the supplements, the TRT, the meal prep, everything that I do, Young LA. Just working in the different brand sector, really just trying to help elevate, obviously, the business. And the whole sport of bodybuilding. Everyone looks at fitness now. You've become huge with all the different platforms. And we have a lot of outlets here in Las Vegas. So I try to give love to every single gym around Vegas. And this is one of the old school ones. So we had our firefighters that had owned the gym. And now we have Brandon Fleahan, who I watch as a teenager train at Goldsch on Lake Mead. And I called him the future because at 16, he had a crazy physique. He was competing in Muscle Mania shows for a long time. So he's natural. And he's been passionate about bodybuilding for a long time. So he actually just acquired this gym. So the lift factory is now owned by him. He's been doing a lot of work here. So we can showcase a little bit of what's kind of going on. Dave's going to do a little walkthrough or whatever, show the different moving equipment around, getting the different murals painted. I know he's trying to bring some new equipment in, take some out. But we came in here to do legs today. So normally, I'm set in my ways about training legs at one sector. So I want to come in, get on some different equipment, give you guys a different visual of what goes on. And like I said, nothing crazy. My whole training aspect is now for longevity, not necessarily trying to break any weight records. Although some days I train a little heavier and harder than other days. But more importantly, so I just came over. I strained my tear drop probably three weeks ago doing squat. So last set, doing a little more contraction than I probably liked. It wasn't super heavy, but I got a little strain in there. So I worked it out, got some tissue therapy from Corey over at String Culture. And then I've been kind of nursing it back. But no pain whatsoever, no re-injury or anything like that. So I'm still training on leg workouts where I start with hamstrings, finish with quads. I've always done this because the hamstrings are weaker body part for me than quads. So even when I was training top priority for Olympia stage and whatever else, it was always my workout. So I'd actually train like a double split. So do hamstrings in the morning, quads in the evening. I know a lot of people, I was just talking about Dave, his schedule. He trains hamstrings on Tuesday and none on Thursday does quad. So a lot of people now are separating because as you see, it's so important on the side poses now, whether in classic or the open division. You have to have that good hamstring drop, which is a lot different from the days when Haney and Gaspari and all those guys, Arnold, the legs weren't as dense. Now you have to have crazy legs. You see these top five at the Olympia. They talk about Andrew Jack needing more hamstring from the side. I mean, his legs are massive. So you've got to get that workout in. And that's why a lot of the pros, we kind of separate things sometimes or just do the double split training or just put emphasis on weak body parts. So I'm going to kind of walk through the workout a little bit. We're going to space over this as we talk a little bit about. So coming in, first exercise, seated hamstring curl. Always my first exercise, whether it's on this hammer piece or I usually use like a life fitness or I love the flex tractor or whatever. So that was available today. Pyramid it up a couple of plates. I think it did like four or five, six sets there, a couple warm-up sets. Secondary, moved over to the one leg curl. So this is a little different. A lot of these are not, they're not selectorized equipment, so they don't have a pulley or a chain or anything like that. So added some plates on there. Do one leg at a time, really isolation of the bicep for the leg, which is basically a hamstring. Same exercise, just kind of stretching it out, whatever. And then moved over to our stiff-legged deadlifts. Now this is an exercise that I love saying stiff-legged, but it's actually more of like, almost just like a, I don't even know what to call it, just a stretch of the hamstrings glutes, because I don't do stiff legs. So it's just basically a Bulgarian or whatever, a kind of cross in between, where I'm just kind of stretching everything, bend the knees a little bit. Just feels better for me. I can really bring the hamstrings in. Did three sets there. And then worked over to the lying hamstring curl. Another where we put weights on. This is a little different from nice angle on this machine. Did three sets there. Pretty much worked with the same weight. And then what we do, I forget. He did a lot today. We went quick, but. Trying to think. Was that the last exercise? I think, oh, we did lunges. Lunges. So I did lunges. So walked in, here, I used to do it on the turf area. So we actually went into where it used to be the leg room, which is now the powerlifting room. I did walking lunges there with a barbell. Did about 75 pounds on my back, back and forth. Normally I do at least 10 reps per leg. So that was kind of the goal, is to bring the hamstrings and glutes. Now I'm going to bring a little bit of quads in there, but this is more of a hamstring exercise. Remember guys, 52, try not to lose my glutes. So a little focus more on hamstrings, glutes. Really just trying to keep that density, because it does definitely as you stop doing all the heavy power training, which I still deadlift every little week, so I'm getting a little bit of glutes in there too. But that was pretty much my hamstring exercises. So I'm already warm. I go to leg extensions for a sex exercise for quads. Probably did five or six sets there. I did pyramid of the weight up. Really just trying to get the blood into the quads from the hamstrings. Really get that contraction. One of the exercises, I think, is very beneficial, especially at my age. Get everything warmed up. Walked over to the leg press, which is right there. Stuck with about three plates aside, nothing crazy. I don't usually work on the nebula leg press. But good contraction there. Nice deep repetitions. Really just trying to get the quads. Everything kind of engaged in that point. And then we worked over to the inverted leg press, which is one of my favorites. I always talk about this. Dave actually asked me when I got into it. Now this really works. I worked us a lot in 09 when I was trying to get my discrepancy in my legs because that inverted with the blood coming down, flushing back and forth, it really worked well for me. So I did three sets there. Pyramid of the weight up a little bit. Good machine. I mean, I work with this over at the Kilo club also. A lot of gyms have the inverted leg press now. Probably not a lot of you guys have that machine. But it is very beneficial for leg training. And then we moved over to basically the squat machine, which is it was an eye carrying piece. Did three sets there. Not heavy, heavy weights, two plates aside. Really just getting everything contracted, the quads, the hamstrings. Like I said, I have great quad development. So I'm not necessarily trying to grow muscle at this point, even though it sounds kind of crazy. Just trying to basically maintain, condition everything, keep everything kind of neutral, and really get that blood in there. Nice power exercise for the last power movement. And then of course, I did some glute work on the outside at Dr. Machine basically, basically, working the outside of my glutes. I do this, sometimes I do some bridges or whatever else, but this was kind of what I wanted to work on a little bit today. I wanted to do it last week, someone was on it. So I incorporated that into my workout, did three sets there. Pretty much wrapped it up. I mean, pretty simple. Not nothing crazy. This is my first leg workout of 2026, since it's only what, the third or fourth today? It's actually, it's Hany's birthday today. So big shout out to Hany Rambod for his birthday. I think he's 51 today. So yeah, so we're just, butchill tracing the dream guys. This is what we shoot for. I'm still training very consistently. I actually took a day off yesterday, which is kind of rare, but I was tired. I wanted to, I did back on Friday. What I've been trying to do is take that day off after doing back because I had legs next. Somehow I incorporated this routine where my legs in back or back to back, which I kind of just fell to the schedule just cause I was training seven days a week. So I've actually kind of worked on a little more mindset on, okay, I gotta take some days off, not just burn my body down because, you know, a functioning body is the key. You can't beat your body over and over and over. Yes, I'm getting the tissue work. Yes, I'm eating right. Yes, I'm stretching. I'm doing all the proper things, but the one thing you have to be careful of, especially as you age is, you know, you just have to, you have to listen to your body a little more, you know, because it's not, it's not gonna perform like 20 years ago. And I've put a lot of wear and tear on the body and just like anything else, it breaks down in time. So I've been a little more conscious about, hey, if I need a little more rest or back down on sets, like this is nothing like the volume where I used to do. If you guys go back and watch a video from 2010 or 2011, when we were shooting a lot of YouTube, you can see that, you know, we did a lot, a lot of different sets and variations. No variations. Yeah, I mean, you might think it's a lot, but I don't think it's that much. But you know what, the nice thing I always say is in Vegas, you know, we are blessed to be able to train at so many great facilities that have different types of equipment. So if you guys, you know, I know some of you guys, like when I used to live in Massachusetts, I would travel to different gyms like on a Sunday and I would train at those different gyms just to change up the atmosphere. Because listen, the same routine gets monotonous, especially during these cold winter months, where you know, it's like, it's the same routine and you're very limited on what you can do with outdoor activities. So the gym becomes like, oh man, you know, I go to the gym every day and like that's a place where it's your sanctuary, right? Where sometimes people use hiking as outlets or they go boating or, you know, they spend time, you know, swimming or whatever, other activities that they're not able necessarily to do outdoors. So there's no outdoor action. Even in Vegas, like it gets cold where we just, you know, we don't tend to do as much here during this kind of weather some days because it's, you know, it does get chilly and it does get windy. So you're a little limited on the outdoor stuff that you can do. But more importantly, I think you're just gonna find what routine works best. And I think that's where I said we're really blessed here because we can change up the environments quite a bit. Some of you guys work off, you know, who's in the gym and if there's a bigger dude in the gym training or, you know, someone, even the females, if there's someone, you know, girl that's in really great shape that's very, very cooperative on providing advice because I know when I first started at 18, I looked upon all my gym goers to kind of learn. Like I watched how this guy benched or squatted or, you know, how to do a proper deadlift. And that's kind of how I learned. Even though some indirectly wasn't correct, I mean, everyone has their own form. It's just like I talked about the stiff leg of deadlifts and bending my knees. It really doesn't make sense when I say stiff legged and everyone always corrects like what kind of, is it a deadlift? Is it something else? I guess it's kind of like a stiff leg of deadlift almost in a sense. But I just do what I feel best. And I mean, everyone's body composition is different. Their biometrics, everyone kind of feels things differently. It's like foot placements and all that. So I think, you know, you just have to find what works best. It's just like routines, you know. There's no real body parts to group together that are like, that's more productive than the other. I think it really depends on the person or on your schedule and what you like to do. I mean, the truth is, is you have to go to the gym every day and I feel you have to put in effort. You know, there has to be effort in every sense on, okay, if I'm gonna train a body part or if I'm gonna spend time in the gym, I need to do it at full capacity for that day, right? And every day is not gonna be that rock star day where you can actually overcome the last workout. Sometimes, you know, it's back off, just pick up, back off, pick up. And that's where as someone that's training someone or someone that's pushing someone in the workouts, you cannot go balls to the wall every single time. Eventually the wheels will fall off. So just be conscious of that. You know, take 2026 to really try to map out what your success pattern is going to be because we all work on different planes of like what our mindset is. Sometimes we're all going through adversities, but the main thing is, is to take all that noise. And when you hit the gym, get the best out of your workouts because it is a sanctuary, it is a meditation spot, it is someplace where you can shut off and put your mind to feeling the workouts, getting the benefit of it, feeling good about yourself and walking out of the gym like, that was a great workout, you know? And that's kind of what I look at is like, okay, I'm more productive when my workouts are, like I feel like they're succeeding. And that's why like injuries can be tough, man. To be honest, it was like to back off doing legs because it is still one of my favorite body parts to train because it's the most volume and like it's just more exhausting for me. I like the challenge. It was really tough for me the last few weeks because I haven't been able to really push myself to that level. We all go through it. We all go through it guys. I wanted to share a little bit with that. So you guys, if you come to town, so Northwest off the 95, so you had from the strip, you had North, basically North on the 15, North on the 95 and you hit lift factory. Many of you have been here. You can see a lot of people have come and signed. This is the locker room here. We closed the door because the music's kind of loud but I'm sure he's gonna turn it down a little bit for his thing but come over, grab a guest pass. You guys, I think there's a key card so you can, there's a phone number on the door but look it up online, lift factory, set a schedule ahead, say, hey, can I buy a pass? It's not super expensive. I'm sure you can tell you what the price is. He'll tell you address all that but make sure you guys check it out. It's one of the hardcore motivational gyms in here and a lot of the pros, you know, you'll see the pictures on the wall as Dave did the whole kind of scan over which you've probably seen before. And I know he's planning on having some sort of an event at some point so. So it makes you guys check it out, put it on your list. Thank you guys for following along. Dave and I, Dave's behind the camera today. So big shout out to Dave for coming out and I know you guys love our videos and you know, hopefully your training kicks off well for 2026 is the beginning of ours. We're gonna do a thumbnail and then get some more videos in. So appreciate you guys and keep crushing it. Make sure you guys like, subscribe, follow if you're not following the channel. This is my official YouTube channel. You know, I do also have Cutlercast but you know, we've cut the nutrition, we have all these other things. But JTV makes you guys keep following along. We do our J-Wox. It's probably gonna be the next thing but appreciate you guys and keep crushing it.