Ah er uh uh data op Lee Byung-ha I want to ah pretty awkward hey app can do what this is some kind of number will do what which id rmx eider sr Asuna will be awl dust db ah Cheonri nsr friend Jason Natural when crying business meter's site comparison Kha ah wook nb Sticube lan in the frame quality of side dishes Aje win Atex been to sell it planning low playing file ler when making it shoot sweet most of us packer scale so regrettable turn on n diet plan Sweden Loien is 107 and is made is Soy Aster which era once cancer about day all actor Ia Browse hard dust hee im eisen been with to Su 3 super food Tony Tony Warner can record uh 2021 won't classic while participating coming here Vegas coming refusal welcome and Jay Cutler db on that regarding appearing, he said he considers it a great honor ah this time  Uh, I feel incredibly honored to have been part of the first cohort participating in 2021. Yesterday, I was able to get coverage on Jay Cutler TV, where thousands would be doing it, so I am very grateful for that. Yes, 2 i 3 i 4 you your all reach to entertainment high color before 4 uh Mr. Ye about removal talk TV hey this needs to be here yes to oust pole to pole to pole ver many see were tourister heidi floor it’s a shame but nice r&c flipping food language sweeped house use ashram untie fishing 9 points shoulderless magic skin Mr. Park logic stem you have to do it it's the law warm talk 3 top hey this is nothing I prostitute logic beat you did really well, so how did you prepare, what do you think about the future this time Pop Top, and how did you grow? Ah, ah, was it last year? It had n't been long since I started the IPO 5 stage, so there were a lot of trial and error, but then, for the next taste like this future Olympia, I prepared a lot, so I cultivated a good condition and ah  I tried to prepare well for this even during the Tampa Pro, but there was a lot of Korea's Lee Woo-joo there. Yeah, I was a bit lacking at the very end, but I will make sure to prepare thoroughly for the Classic and go out there. oso biz there do porto floors cove opec of shield 5th place Kyouya lee soo to be sound autumn that is Hapi pick pub wor s hull iPhone is rotten key Nahee together psc we dibo ol ol be very you what this is wo u o 3 this knc koup bo mesi a as an answer to this one too every leaders must be there yes ah scm pom pom pon serp am shop poppers can't match it was cool pop ethics cooking meaning on homepage tt 6y please close medium from skin breakout count ham do it uh you became very famous while competing in that Olympia last year, do you think so or what do you think? In Korea, bodybuilding isn't as popular a sport as it is in the US, so ah ss so much so that the enthusiast base is like this side  It's not hot, so ah yes, I think there is that aspect. Yes 2, that way I can put it on faster. Michelle Sports promise length x 5 bet uh medicine it's Emma's book ok to person over her out of poker owe to us court cp ann csrf crocodile on vegetables now what now what I competed in the Olympia for the first time last year, and this time now tap forward o that is, since I haven't competed in the pro shop much, uh, rather than the result, I want to aim for showing more improvement yesterday. Oh my, this awaited oil Kel Dah offices cote de Nook profit eastern etiquette keyword me short and how Kim Pro man care Asil sos decided to use it on test ah o tempo pods maximum one i love my story quickly buffing how old you are this year and how you started bodybuilding this year is US age since ah hair repair why yes uh and now anything board wedding organization there is KB BF, uh Korea Dark Gradation, there is such an organization, uh, I was active in that organization for a very long time. Because there is a team if you get it, yes, so I started there for the first time. But since it is amateur bodybuilding there and they conduct Olympic-level doping tests, you can't really build it up significantly there. You have to consider that you can't prepare for FLO. Ah, so I decided to take on the challenge. Regarding how you came to do bodybuilding, ah, well, at first, hair removal... I also started by looking at foreign photos, like Arnold and pictures of famous bodybuilders. Ah, Part 2 Per Leaf profit 5 uh uh bet SR foot dubbing bullet use again easy fight all sold out follow 3 this joint wall is 4 possessed auto type ah ah ah what shrink salty solution soul in store i send FLOs fool was there TV camera synopsis Mario torrent you know macro 2a fabshot wall can use one-two and evil spirit LG pour uh, it is the same in Korea. I started bodybuilding in the late 90s, and most people start by looking at American bodybuilding athletes, so yes, that is correct. Now with American apps  It is true that the athletes started dreaming of becoming athletes. Yes, yes. Won-ah, me, answer, ID, prok, resentful, wannabe, s, operate on, exploration, hey, seller, mp5, over, kim, woo, yes, what, wink, ah, yes, a, ah, ah, to operate it, yes, DVD, oh, wombat too, pve, receiver, our appearance, insertion, was fully there, mouse, met, compared to the current 2D, energy, clothes, yes, as a Korean, participating in the Olympics, the sense of accomplishment is really amazing, isn't it? How is it for you? Jojo too, now fully, that kind of, Jeong-cheol, I empathize. The fact that I mentioned, suggested, and recommended this for the Olympia itself is a great honor and something I consider to be quite proud of. love is to die, man, Eden server, tomorrow, do, pte, ah, s, game, Pahwang, s, pen too, left arm, only the field, eos, language, how many years have you been doing bodybuilding? Hmm, 25 years, I have been referring to the shop, 2 ep.2, tools, yes, as I came, reason for betting, why, desk, l, came, company and, to pick, helmet, words, crime, that senior's final goal, bodybuilding, really urgent, final goal.  Strange haha ​​ah well, since I'm participating in the Olympia and I've already set a goal, ah well, uh, I mean, I want to develop a little more as a dancer now 5 ok so soon be the to lie to her tool references ye her love love hey tea room wall fin ah ah warm s M uh, how much longer do you plan to do bodybuilding for the next few years? Uh, since I've been an athlete for a very long time, uh, I think I've had quite a few injuries. So, well, I've tried a lot. What do you mean? I think I'll do photography for about 3 years. Yai answer pet leader 2e 5l side in rotten put in this b line write operator bet be tempered ye as doing CEO pink eraser commiserate day outline flower stem um di ring know rew ​​yes oo bidding uh, when the first rebound happened, how did you learn about dieting or bodybuilding, how did you build your body like this, and how did you prepare for the competition? At first, when you started, uh, the 3-session pass wasn't common back then, but fortunately, the bond manager could shoot  Because it was, in Korea, the teacher was someone I knew, so I could learn well. Confessing that the director of the other room was full, it became yes yes oh oh wow, was that 25 years ago? Loans die quickly, don't event pop up again immigration q&a nato one day spank bu today of the real cartel after that rest February raise words learn ding only surfer pak perfect 8 warm option hair body perm king it's there here to Taenggu when at the residence anime after 9 years old - behind drown out now hood and of cancer now who the coach is now and with is here now waiting to meet and start ah yes pde why it is indeed 5 oh yes yes owls yes 2 origin the router diamond peter lee ok to create a hair sw ah ah Howdy arm 822 connect high school senior while as if ein how you connected with Lee House is while doing so uh talking what it is oh just what deep s-gw yes ah was there yes yes rotten below hard disk  Mini K-kun yo, rough with a bigger high school girl speaker Lara 1 can't speak Korean and English attached, how did you set the standard for a dream, now asking my younger sibling, uh, translated, aware of, isn't there, what, Peace and, close that guy, minimum of introduction top hey yet ah, bed rc, even the corpse of an orange carp - Auntie Bath and uh, the females hao, snake Faber, the total, that industry, hair string, yesterday, but Voltes, Yves Saint Laurent, Lee Ki-wook, oh no, feet, blessings, darkness, Troy, can save, elly fibers, Jesus, it out my wallet frost, can see, rock, paper, life, it's going to be, uh hey ah, K-Mac, Ask, temple's cutting board, review, ding, so much, is so, order 3 4 im, in the week, above, must follow expectations, word by word, Maiko, time or, for no reason, nutrition, try, when looking, Some, Aro, one, where is it, poem, note, i do, plan, all, yn - side, of, mic, pedition, Isca, width, d, Sèvres, sox, left, floral, top 5, lte, inn, about 5m, have to lie down in the north, don't catch  Did you empty the beer berry oil? Is it done? It's a stupid habit 5 rice atomy is just yes ah ol world child copy x2 paul mature non-present material next radish herb small land end not how one wrap jumps straight over with a cut more cost piano USA light once yes like this uh that gloomy / You know it's more expensive too it's today yes yes reservation taken on before 8 o'clock Olympia before interview one more time becoming a woman yes yeah like this Daegu don't take out Somers Geass 4 Geneva Rice's Susie become a house