Here we are today at torture gym training a little bit of back and biceps with Dave catching up with everything that's been going on with me uh this last uh months or so like I ended up in hospital about two or three times. Uh some blood sugar issue, dehydration. I had even like a bike motorcycle for so uh we're just catching up today. I want to talk to you a little bit about what's been going on with me and the things I'm up to. It's not my sister, it's my mom. Yeah. So yeah, people were saying she looks very young. So that's why I just make sure everybody knows it's my mom. She came to visit for like six days to see. was here for 6 days a week and I hadn't seen her in like 6 years. Wow. You know, everything goes so fast when you're focused and but they to come for here they took us it took them like about 24 hours to travel cuz they went through Montreal and Yeah. Oh, really? Okay. It took four hours lay over there and all that. So, okay. Long trip. Okay. But I'm planning on competing in in November in in Marseilles in France for my comeback show. So that's only an hour and a half from her. There's a pro show there. They have a pro show. Yeah. Who's who's producing? Ron Ron Hash. It's uh Yeah, it's Ron. I talked to him at Pittsburgh. I'm planning on doing that one and launch my closing brand and and then two weeks later it's a Japan pro. So there's two show I'm shooting for. Okay. Nice. If everything goes well. Good. Wow. Web is crushing this. Hello, Samo. How are you? Hi, I'm good. This is your house. This is my house. Yes. Oh, look. Hi, Chubby. He's very excited. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. No. No. But there was no uh no spare tire in the car. I did the whole drive. Tell her that degree. Okay. Okay. Come on, man. What if your fans going to be happy? Yeah, the French fans. Oh, yeah. A little bit of French. Well, yeah. That's why, you know, I want I need to get the word out so they can know I'm coming. Yeah. I'm competing in France. And, uh, yeah, it's going to be awesome. I'm looking forward to it. All right. Cool. Yeah. Well, um, is there anything you want to show me at your house? I know you have all kinds of stuff. It's a little messy cuz I'm like, we got all like Sean stuff. I kept everything after he passed away. And like right now I'm finally organizing things, trying to like sell stuff, trying to organize everything. So like instead of keeping everything and getting dust over it, I want people actually talked to Nick Nick Miller like Nick Chen Power yesterday. Okay. He's purchasing like actually this poster right here. Was it in storage or in a garage? Uh like right now I'm transferring from the garage to storage. But this is like from Sean's movie. Oh yeah. So people don't even know you had I've never seen the movie. You never seen it? No. Do you have one? No, but the link is on I think it's on Amazon. You can watch it on Amazon. Okay, cool. It's becoming for etron and it's signed actually hand signed. Yeah, I thought you had DVDs for Yeah, I don't have the DVD of that though. I have DVDs like Battle of the Olympia. I have like some Shan DVDs. Okay, cool. And like this is like an AR classic metal. Where's the sand out? The sand out I've just put in storage. Oh, wow. Yeah, that's awesome. You guys Yeah. Nick was like, "Oh, I'll buy it out like 10 grand." I was like, I'm not selling this. I'm not If I give it to anyone, it's his his daughter. I'm not selling this. He worked too hard for this. You know, um Adam Silverman actually bought one. I know. I know. Nick has Frank Zay's trophy. Oh, he purchased it for like not even I think 7,500 or something. But this is a big one. The one 50 at least. Yeah. Yeah. It's like it's like in a big metal case. It's in big metal case. I just I just put it this morning in the storage just for now. Wow. Until I figure out like where I put stuff. Why did you decide to do this now? I mean, you've had this for Because Yeah. everything, you know, so much happened like lately with the I had like we would talk about it more, but like um when I was doing the tour Yeah. after Emily's show in Pittsburgh, we decided to stay on the East Coast and like I know it was Sean's dream to go like from military bases to gyms and just talk about bodybuilding, you know, and so I felt like, you know, being like his training partner and like really close to him that I kind of like because I like to do that myself too. Yeah. So, I felt like that was a good thing to do and like to to give back and be able to like kind of like keep his memory alive. Yeah. So, we went to like Virginia to pick up her son and then we stopped by the DMV gyms there and did some seminars there, free posing seminars and Nice. And then we were driving to New York for the New York Pro and then we stopped by the cemetery where Sean was buried. Oh. And uh in the next day like You didn't take any pictures? I took picture of the of the the stone. Yeah. Yeah. You didn't post? No. Okay. No, not yet. For now, you know, it's something you need to like kind of like digest and sometimes the stuff also is for you. Yeah, I know cuz I was there when he was actually buried when like after the funeral we went there. Oh, but like that was my first time back and like I feel like I'm just finally like start to like actually heal from that loss. Yeah. Yeah. That was a big one. Yeah. Yeah. Damn. And even when I talked to a lot of people, a lot of people are still like because yesterday I was facetiming a guy on Instagram who wanted to purchase a poster. It was like he said he was homeless like a year ago or something. Wow. And he said he was competing last year in Miami and uh his training partner his last name is Roden. He had no idea he was related to Sean. Oh wow. Actually it was his cousin and he started crying when he saw him post. He was like you remind me of Sean. I was like what does that make you cry? I was like well it was my cousin. Yeah. Oh dang. Wow. He was telling that yesterday cuz the guy was homeless a year ago and I was like you know I can't really put a price on this stuff. It's kind of like what people want to pay. Yeah. So he was like, "Oh, for Sean's poster I pay 100 bucks." You know, like, "Holy crap." Like, "Man, that's awesome." And like some I haven't like organized it all. That's why I've been trying to reach out to guy to see like what he thinks. But like I need to like I want to set some of it the money like you just like give it to his daughter. And then you know some of it for like the storage for like you know the cost shipping. She must be big corner now. Yeah. She's what eight. Have you seen pictures of what she look like? No. But I talk to Nisha cuz I have like a whole case of like pictures of Sean and her and like stuff that Sean kept from her online. So I sent that to her a couple days ago. She was like, "Can you ship that to me or should I get it next time?" I was like, "Oh, nice. It's quite heavy. So maybe it's better if you pick it up next time." Cost a fortune to to mail. And it's not she's not fared in California. So yeah, she comes here here and there. So I was like, it's better if you just pick it up when she's here. I put that in storage this morning. But yeah, I got a lot of recovery tools here, too. Actually, this I found out when I was doing all this clean. I don't I think it's probably Michelle who did that. It's like a There's some covers here. It's like a pizza box. Yeah. But this is really cool. Oh, wow. It's like a book. Yeah, it's a picture book. Oh. Oh, man. Mr. Olympia, who made this? I'm guessing Misha, but I'm not sure, honestly. Looks like something you would buy at Barnes & Noble. It looks really good. Wow. This is the whole like 2018 Olympia weekend, you know, with Kora. Oh, man. You really don't appreciate people as much as you should while they're Yeah, that's for sure. Cuz you think you have all the time in the world. Yeah, for real. That's why like right now my mom is here. I'm trying to take advantage of it. That's great. Six years without seeing her. It's like time flies and you got to take advantage of it. God, I remember at the Olympia like like it was yesterday. Yeah, me too. And it was funny talking to Nick yesterday. He was like, you know, Sean always supported the channel from the start. Like I remember Oh, you was really good friends with him. Yeah. The 2019 Olympia they did a boost together at the Olympia. Yeah, I remember. So he was like Yeah. I was like I would not pay for much for many people but for Sean stuff I definitely want to support and Yeah. So no, this is a really cool book. I'm not sure who made it but this is priceless. Yeah. So I mean you know I want I don't want this to be just stored for nothing. So if if people want to purchase certain things I have bunch of posters and stuff. I'm trying to set up a website where I can do like an inventory what I have. So so actually this is like showcase in places where people actually appreciate it and you know get something out of it like motivation inspiration whatever it is. So yeah that's kind of what I'm that's why it's kind of like a mess a little bit. It's uh I'm in the middle of all going through all this stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, I wanted to have a talk with you because you've been going through a lot of things over the past few months and we've seen basically the last few months experience. Yeah. We've seen on Instagram you were in the hospital recently and stuff. So, I wanted to kind of give you a chance for you to uh tell people what happened. I think it would be good. Right. Well, let me show you just a couple things of the recovery tools I use and stuff cuz Well, this is a Sona by Sona Box. Oh, nice. It's just it's just really cool. Sona is actually a Can you sit in there? Yeah, there's a chair. Okay, cool. It's a wet sauna. Look at that. Oh, okay. It's completely portable. You can just break it down in like 5 minutes. And what do you do in there? You just sit and you sweat. Okay. No phone. Well, you can take your phone, but it's going to heat up. The thing is going to be wet. Here over there, I have a coal plunge. The super tub, a hydro gun. It has a nice ozone in it too. And then you very cool. You can just do your cold plunge. And you put ice in it or It is iced with the cooling system. Nice. And this is actually the super one for like a hot uh weather. Okay. Nice. And it's nice little yard. Yeah. Chubby must like it. Yeah, it does. And then over here, I mean, don't judge the garage because it's really messy. Maybe you can cut out some parts. But here, here's the bike. That's the bike. I haven't seen it forever. Actually fell on it the other day. But look, it got nothing. Just this. Ouch. This and the pipe here. Oh, yeah. That's all I got. What a monster. I love this bike. Yeah. So here I have a exercise with oxygen um training. Okay. It's a compressor to like you can have a mask when you're doing your your your cardio so you can have more um nice oxygenation. Nice. That's a good treadmill. Yeah, it is cool. And then upstairs I have a hyper brake chamber. I'm going to show you. Hey I'm excited. Yeah. Is the other one nice? Uh, yeah, but you won't see him. He's going to be in the room. You want to show us? Oh, yeah. It's much cooler upstairs. Yeah, it feels good. So, this is the hyper brake chamber. So, what does that do? It's uh create pressure and push. So it's like your altitude was like it push extra oxygen. So the oxygen goes deeper into your cells which helps like like a recovery regeneration. Isn't that what the cyclist use? Yeah. A lot of people even like flex when he tore his triceps. He was using that. Okay. Um I used to go to like a place called Project Wellbeing that's not far from here. They have this, they have a cold plunge, they have like the salt baths, they have everything. But now I can do most of it at home. Yeah. And I actually talked yesterday to a guy called John Graham and he's going to send me like a a red light device. It's called Lumaf Flex. Oh yeah, that's good. You can even put that on the dogs and stuff. Yeah, that's good. So I'm excited to try that out. Yeah. Where's the dog? The dog is over there. Okay. But if they see each other, they're going to Yeah. Yeah. That's too bad they don't get along. Yeah. Well, I'm working on it. It's going to be better. But they've been together for a while. Yeah. I mean, have had both for a while. But they they just started out of nowhere to fight because the other one is over here right now. He was out all all morning. This little guy. Hi. Oh, you keep him in the box. Okay. Yeah. Well, cuz he's like stuff. Yeah. He's cute. He's so cute. What's his name? Diesel. Diesel. Okay. Yeah. Uhoh. He sleeps downstairs usually, but right now I kept him here cuz my mom, she's a little afraid. Yeah. Yeah. She knows Chubby, but she doesn't know. Yeah, Chuby's not happy. Well, yeah. He wants all the attention. All right. Come on, buddy. All right. Yeah. So, that's the little tour. Nice. Okay, Stan. So, tell me the story. What happened? And uh you know, you seem good today, so I'm good. So, I mean, it kind of all started last year. you know, that's why I've been you've been asking me like to do a video for a few months now. And I was like, well, I'm not ready. I'm not ready. And then I'm still not like physically ready like like where I would like to be, but uh there's just a lot of like I need to I feel like I need to share. Um so last year after my I did the Vancouver Pro and Chicago Pro back to back within six days. And after I did the Vancouver Pro, like something went wrong. I wasn't sure like dehydration like too much diuretic or something. It wasn't that much. She was like, I think we took one quarter more dio side than usual. Normally I do I was doing half but I was a little bigger. So I mean anyway followed the plan and then you know prejudging happened. Last year I was the year before I was second and here I was not in the first call out. I was like something's off. I don't know what's up. So then I had planned to do Chicago the following week. So the Vancouver Pro was on Sunday and then on Saturday next week I had the Chicago Pro. So I arrived to um Chicago on Monday. So, I had cuz Vancouver Pro is actually forgot what's the the place called, but it's like an hour away from Vancouver, 45 minutes. So, it's quite far. So, I had to I had an Airbnb. So, I drove I had to leave like I don't know 3 4:00 a.m. I had to wake up, get ready and leave after like a short night of sleep being dehydrated and stuff. Flew to Chicago, arrived there. At that point, I still wasn't sure what went wrong. But, uh Patrick was like, "We got to get leaner." In my head, I was like, "I got to get fuller." I think and especially in the short amount of time we had, I thought it was faster to trying to fill out than trying to get leaner. But anyway, you know, I followed my coach. So Monday we keep depleting, I did legs. Um Tuesday I was posing with Chuck, you know, the he's the chairman for the NPC in in um Illinois. He's also the owner of a USA gym when I was in Chicago. I was trained there like once a week. And then he looks at me and he's like, "No, you look conditioning is great. you look great, but you need to start filling out your flat." And I was like, "Yeah, okay." So then I sent that video where he says that to my coach and he was like kind of disagreeing, but was like, "You know what? It's whatever, you know, you're the you're the you're the what you're the client, you know, so if you want to fill out, let's I'll send you a plan. Let's do it." So his plan was to start carving up the next day after working out. So the next day I woke I wake up, I had my first couple meals, hit the gym, and after I train after I train, I start testing my blood sugar because I like to do that. And it was also like a suggestion from Dom, who I'm working with now. He was like, if you want to make sure you don't spill over, you want to make sure your blood sugar is under 100. If it's over, you should take a little bit of insulin to help you like drive everything into the cells. So I was like, that's a good point. So I finished my workout. I was about 110 or so. So I was like, cool. I like wait 10 minutes or so. I'd be I'd be right under. And then like, you know, I got ready, took a little longer, like 15 minutes maybe. I checked my blood sugar again. And now it tells me it's like 185 or some stuff. I'm like, "Wow." Okay, that's strange. At that point, I'm like, it's probably in my my glucose, you know, glucometer that's really off or something. So, I'm not really worrying about it. I just go to CVS. I bought another one. I pull it out. It's like now 280. I'm like, okay, something's really off. Did you feel any different? Not really. No. At that point, no. Um, so then it was like this battle this whole week from like Tuesday to Saturday trying to carb up and I have to eat a lot of food. I was eating like 15 grams of carbs a day and like and the thing is I have to space it out enough and trying to wait for it to lower but it was not happening. So then I would stay up later. So then you know sleep is a big thing to like you know manage blood glucose you need to get good like good sleep. Hydration sleep are like crucial and I was not getting those. I was dehydrated from the tyic still it takes about 10 days to bounce back and then I was not getting any sleep. Anyway I was with the insulin I was trying to manage it. uh ended up, you know, I I looked fuller by the time I was on stage. I got sixth place at that show. I was tied with uh Jordan Hutchinson actually, who actually ended up being what Tan in Tampa or or Texas like a couple weeks later. So, he's a really good bodybuilder, too. So, I mean, it was not a bad result. It was, you know, packed up show, but like I didn't look the way I was supposed to. So, I get back home, blood sugar was still weird at that point. like uh you know Patrick tells me I should reach out to um somebody like a diabetes specialist or something but Dom that I talked to was a good friend of mine because I know Amanda for like oh yeah since gold yeah a long time ago now eight nine years ago so when she started working with Dom and then they moved here like I got to know him I was like very knowledgeable guy love this guy and so he was like yeah no I can help you I've managed people like that before many times because he's he's known for helping people he's helped like Rean He's help I mean he's worked with so many people behind the scene people have no idea I think he worked with Bonak he worked with Rean he worked with Nick Walker he worked so many people and um anyways we started working together doing some type like different tests I had like fatty liver non-alcoholic fatty liver disease so my liver was really much bigger so the first thing we started doing we started doing a keto diet and like we just did like about four or five weeks of it and I my my waist shrink by six inches. How did you deal with no carbs? Well, I mean, I do whatever I tell him. I have no problem. Yeah. Okay. It was just like I was eating a ton of fat because he was like, "But your metabolism is crazy." So, trying to get 5,000 calories or more from protein and fat. I was eating like bacon, like cheese. Oh, sure. It was It was But it wasn't bad. I mean, you know. So, anyway, we did that. Got rid of the fatty liver disease. Um, but then my blood sugar was still acting up. So, we're doing more test. There was the pancreas was a little off. We fixed that. We kept fixing things and then we're trying to dig deeper and deeper. Then we end up like by probably January, February, we were like, "Okay, it's something with the gut issue. It's a gut issue." So, we did the GI map, got the result. My IGG was really, really high, like 105 or so, which normally like 70% of people who have high IGG, they usually have like Crohn's disease. And I was like, I've been doing sports and pushing my body to limits for years. I wouldn't know if I have something like that. Mhm. Anyway, we did more tests. We didn't like completely confirm the diagnosis, but like he was really aiming toward like Crohn's cuz my brother has type 1 diabetes. So, we knew he was like sometime over to immune, but like we're not sure exactly what it was. Um, then when I was in FIBO with Sergio, like that's when my GI map results came back and it was like recently. Yeah, that was like a month ago. Six week. Uh, no, we're June. So, mid April, like early April, like second week of April. Yeah. and um like still like pushing toward the Crohn's like top type of bacteria overgrowth things like that. So at that point I'm like in acceptance I'm okay. I'm like okay if I have Crohn's actually a good thing as a bodybuilder because I'm more sensitive to food. So I know exactly what works and doesn't work for me. I don't have to guess. If I eat something I have diarrhea then it's just not good for me. I need to you know take that out of my diet. So I was like actually you know to looking at it from the you know positive eye and then things started going better from there like really fast actually and uh my blood sugar was starting to be improving a lot. I was using very little to no insulin and I was very excited and then we went to Pittsburgh with Emily and then I was starting to like you know what I feel like eating pancakes so I ate panc everything was going great. I would eat pancakes blueberry muffins before my workouts and blood sugar was good. So then like I had uh I had a sensor on is it was like dying out and I was like it's been great. So I kind of like took it off and kind of like I was like sometimes you know worrying too much and looking at the numbers makes things worse. So I was like maybe it's good that I just like kind of like listen to my body and kind of follow my instincts cuz I'm not someone who craves like junk food. Like it was Patrick was four years. We only had cheat meals like maybe once after a show and it was like usually like steak and potatoes. Like nothing crazy. Like I don't I don't crave any food. Like I'm very like disciplined. Yeah. So, so I was like, I'm just going to follow my instinct and just kind of see how it goes. And then while Emily was prepping for a show, like I was not sleeping a lot. I was trying to do a lot of things and hopping around. Yeah. Sorry. Hopping around. Yeah. Hopping around. And then after that, we went to Virginia and I kept doing a lot of things and this this there was all these things, you know, with Sean also like in my head kind of like really trying to process all of it. And then the thing is people may don't know but like when your blood sugar is really high you start becoming neurotoxic because it makes your body very acidic. And if you if you there's like three ways to lower your blood sugar. If you either exercise use your muscle is like the best way. You can like drink a lot and then pee it out which is you know kind of hard on the kidneys or the brain is a huge consumer of uh of glucose. And so what happens is like having start having racing thoughts but over time the acid the acidity of it it creates keto acidosis and that's very neurotoxic and you can with the lack of sleep you know coupled with that starting having like some weird like disconnection like kind of like almost hallucinations or I mean I'm not even sure exactly I mean it would be better like you know able to tell you better about how how I was during that time. So that's why we went to seminary on Thursday and Friday morning she was worried about me. That was May 16, just before the the New York Pro. So I was like, I'm feeling okay. Like, but if that makes you feel better, let's Okay, well, go to the hospital and get checked out. Go to the hospital to check my blood sugar. 800. My my my sensory doesn't go above 400. Oh my god. Like it's like extremely extremely high. Like they were like, "How do you even standing?" They didn't understand. So then they kept me in the hospital for like almost a whole week. Oh my god. And my blood sugar was an average between like 400 to 600 the whole time. Wow. But then I was telling them like you guys because they were like giving me all kind of stuff to trying to like limit the assassination and like trying to sleep and and there was no windows. There was no clock. So I was like I don't know if I've been here a day, if I've been here a week. Yeah. Like if I slept 20 hours or two like I had no idea. So I had to be very like disoriented. So I was just telling them like please guys I know how to lower blood sugar. I just need to work out. Like well you can't work out here. You can't do this. ended up like be moved to another hospital and they were like, "Well, you can't do push-ups in your room." I was like, "Well, push-ups not really going to cut it for me." Like, I've been training for 20 years like, you know, it's not a real work. Yeah. It's like just a little I barely like any pump. And so, and also the food in the hospital was terrible. Like, of course, that's something I talked to the dietitian over there. I had the menu every day. I was supposed to choose food. I had like it was like a point system. I was allowed to get 90 grams per meal of of carbs. But like if you pick chicken and rice, it's like 20 points. And I can do like double and get like 40 points. But if I picked pizza or fried chicken and fries, burgers, that was zero points. It doesn't make sense. And like I'm starving. I'm used to eat like 8,000 calories a day. So I'm like, screw it. I'm going to eat the junk food, you know? Like and I was finishing everybody else astray. Like I was just like, just give it to me. I'm hungry. But anyway, my blood sugar was still high and they were like not understanding what to do. They kept sending me to ER and giving me like IV fluids and then the then you know I had an idea like there was when I talked with the nurse she was like yeah you can work out in your room so we had like some paper bags in the room and uh I was like well you guys can bring me like some books and stuff like we don't have books like but you guys have Bibles and they like yeah we got Bibles so bring me like as many as you can and we'll fill out the bags and then I started like doing curves like lateral raises shoulder presses triceps like rows like you know squats with just the weight in my hands. Prison workout. Yeah, exactly. It worked. I did that for like the 45 minutes. My blood sugar was over under 200 which hadn't been there like for in a whole week. What they say? They were like but then that's when they started realizing I knew what I was doing and they they had to release me cuz I would be better on my own. Yeah. So that's when the process of discharging me started happening. But it takes about 24 48 hours. Yeah. They have to see if you're stable. They never want to let you go once. No, they don't cuz they want to keep paying, of course. So, now I got a crazy ass bill that I But I also going to I have a lot of things happening with this because I there's a lot of things that was not normal and I definitely want to get like at least for my peace of mind. I need to like, you know, address it on my own with them. But anyway, that's not the subject today. But so then I left and then um they dropped me off at the airport. It was like a a cab. And then funny enough, like I got on the plane and this uh I was like Emily got me like a pl a place seat with like extra room. That was nice. But then there's this lady who come and she's like, "Oh, would you mind moving?" Because my partner and I were like separated and stuff. I'm like honestly like I need the extra room. I was like, "Okay, if you don't find anybody else, I I'll move." So the the her partner go sit in the back. She sits next to me and um then there's a guy who come with like a huge camera and I'm like what is this camera for? Like he's like well it's a 6K camera or something shooting commercial. I'm like okay cool. Like we talked two minutes he sit right next to me like behind me and then next to him it was his camera and they said the plane was full but the next other seat next to him was empty. So after like a few minutes I like would you mind like you know come and sit next to me and she can sit in the back next to her boyfriend and like the flight it was like spirit airlines so normally you're supposed to pay extra for it. So the flights were trying to fight it and stuff. I was like seriously like you know who who does it who who does that hurt like nobody's everybody's fine with it. So at the end letting it happen and the guy was shooting commercial end up sitting next to me. So he was like well you know I was asking him more about it. He was like I need like a motorcycle. We're shooting for like a action camera and I'm like okay so what do you need? He's like well we need like motorcycles ATV parag lighting uh like locations in Vegas. I was like, "Well, you should go to Red Rock. I have a motorcycle if you want. It's dope, like, but I would love for you to use it." He was like, "Well, we love your profile is great. I could submit that to my project manager and stuff." So, he started like drafting a a whole thing to his project manager in China. And the guy the second we landed, the guy loved it. He was like approved. So, then I arrived here and I my bike the battery was dead cuz I haven't used it in like six months, right? So I was like I don't want to get you know the guy got everything settled like over like kind of like you know too good to be true like during his flight he was supposed to plan everything it takes a few days and he had everything settled like in you know by luck so I didn't want him to to worry so I'm like calling the guy who customized my back cuz here in Vegas I'm like oh what can I do can you like change my battery or something like well my mom is in the hospital we can go get like a charger so I went and get that I plugged the bike overnight he was like it should be like 12 to 15 hours max and it should be good. Yeah, I left it for like almost 20 hours and then when the guy the next morning I was supposed to shoot at 6:00 a.m. I woke up at 4:00 a.m. I'm like please start, please. It's not starting. Oh man. So like, god damn it. And then they were supposed to arrive at 6:00. They arrive around 7:30. At that time I already went to a rally. I got a a new battery, but when I pulled the thing back like for my bike, the battery was under the air ride suspension. And that's like a whole other level of like Oh, so it's not that easy to change. No. No. So then I'm like, "Okay, well, so let's start to let's try to jump start it." Yeah. So we jump start with the car. It almost starts like it's like we hear it, you know? So I'm like, "Nah, damn." Then I called Justin because he knows a lot of people in Vegas. And I was like, "Do you have anybody who's like a bike who can we can just borrow for like a couple hours." He was like, "Well, it's like 8 9 a.m. like, you know, but let me see what I can do." But he was like, "But you know, you can just pull it and you should start like just even push it." And I was like, "Well, if you don't mind coming over, like let's try it." Yeah. So he show up with his with his jeep. Yeah. He we attached the back. We're going not fast. So like I don't even have a helmet, nothing. And we're going I thought we were going like around the community like that. But then he hears the back above starting. So he keeps going in a dead end. And I mean I thought he was going to turn. So I turned right. I ended up land like falling on the floor. Oh man. Luckily the back has nothing. I have nothing. I even hit my head like it was like blood here and stuff. But I was like okay I don't want me to worry after everything that happened and stuff. So like I put a hat on. I covered my arm. I was like, "Just go get me a hoodie." I hit everything. Uh then I was like, "Okay, let's let's go get a bike, you know. Let's go to to Harley Davidson on Oh, yeah. on the one by the Vegas sign." So, let's see if we can rent one or even like test ride one, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, we end up there. In the meantime, I also reached out to some friends who have bikes. And then one of them picked up the phone and he was like, "Yeah, bro. I have dirt bikes. I have a boat. I have you can use all that stuff." Like, "Okay, cool." He's like, he lives in Lake Las Vegas. So, we drove over there. It was like already now 1:00 p.m. So, when we arrive there, it was like it's too hot to shoot now. Wow. So, we waited like, you know, 2 3 hours. And then it's like 3:00 4 p.m. And uh meanwhile, they get all the cameras ready, get the stuff on the truck, then we start shooting. It was amazing. Like, we had an amazing time. But, uh but it was really hot and then the back is hot. Yeah. And we don't have like, you know, we have a little bit of water, but like in the car, it's kind of like hard to really get hydrated. So, we're like, I'm like, you know, I'm telling them, I'm not feeling good cuz the blood sugar when you when you have high blood sugar, you get dehydrated already. So, I was like, I'm not feeling too good. Like, let's go home. Like, let's wrap it up. Like, we got plenty of footage. They're like, just one more, one more, one more take. Like, okay, okay, one more. One more. End up like being like 6 p.m. or so. And I was supposed to have dinner with Emily and her coach. We celebrate her pro card. And like she kept calling. I was like, maybe I'm like, you know, I'm sorry, but like this is what I'm doing. You have my location. You have everybody's phone number I'm with like if you you're actually slowing it down, but keep calling, you know, like it'd be done maybe now. Anyway, there was a point where I'm like I just can't do anymore. Like the bike actually the bike was not starting even at one point. I was like I p I put the back on the side. I'm like I'm hot. I need my my feet were burning. I was like wearing like leather leather shoes and I was like I'm not feeling good. I need to like take my shoes off. So then the park rangers arrived cuz we were like in a in a park area in Lake Las Vegas. Okay. And they were like are you okay stuff? I'm like not really you know like I'm not feeling good. And so they're like oh can come in the shade like they made like a whole shade with their car. They start giving me Gary that they you know half with water and then I was still not good. So like they they had like a whole system. They had like like a little tub thing. They would put like ice and they put my shirt in it and they put my shirt on my head and okay help cooling me down. started feeling a little better. Good. The guy who was shooting the video, the well, it was two guys. One of them like drove me back home here and then I don't really remember. I think AMD drove me to the hospital after that. Oh. Because I was still very diarrheated and not still not quite like I don't even remember going to the hospital. Oh wow. Um so then I wake up in the hospital and I'm like here I am again. Oh no. I have an IV on and stuff. is like probably 1:00 a.m. at this point and uh I'm like guys I can't I've been in the hospital way too much lately and like last time I was in the hospital before that it was when Jean passed away like I don't like it. Um so I need to go. So they discharged me. It was like 2:00 a.m. 3:00 a.m. I mean just got to in bed like she was like I was like I you know I'm going to send you an Uber. I got back home here at 4:00 a.m. It's been 24 hours I've been awake basically. Wow. Then I go to bed. I wake up probably around 8 and then Dom my coach is here with Amanda. They're trying to figure out, you know, looking at my all my medical stuff and they like, you know, see my blood sugar is like 3 400. So they give me give me insulin, give me some food, but it's like it's not really going well. I'm like guys, let's just go to gym. It's going to solve it. Let's go train. So they say, okay, let's go. But then they, you know, as we were driving, Emily and Amanda, that's what Dom told me. I don't know. But so that's why he he told me that they were he wanted to go to gym, but they were telling him like if something happens to him, it's going to be on you. So they wanted to take me to hospital. So they brought me back to the hospital. Oh no. And I was like, "No, we're not going to do this again." Like come on now. So that's why I told I put my foot down. I was like, "Okay, you guys can do all the tests you want. I have no problem doing test." But I've been doing test for like a whole week. Like when I was there for six days, they would do all my blood work twice a day. Like I was like, "I all the data. I know what's going on. I just need to work out, rest, and eat, you know, like normal food. So, yeah, I told him, "You got 10 minutes." Like, they've been pee pe pee in a cup. I was like, "Well, if you're not going to be, you know, we're not going to test this stuff, you you're fine." They asked me some questions like, "Yeah, you're you know where you are. You're fine. Like, we're not going to keep you against your will." So, then let me go and then as things started like being a little better from there because now like people started like, you know, letting me do my things like I was able to like get back to work, start training people again. And that's when it started things started normalizing. And then my mom arrived. It was on Wednesday. So that was Sunday. The whole hospital last thing. So three days later she she came. She arrived at night. She She must have been worried. Yeah. Of course. My my dad, my mom, everybody was worried. Yeah. And Emily of course and her family. And even when I was in New York, like her aunt came, she lives in New York. I was in Jersey actually. She drove all the way to just like drop me off some stuff and Oh, nice. So that was really nice. But everybody Yeah, definitely everybody was worried. That's for sure. And like I don't I don't even remember all of it. Like it was not quite there. And it felt like so like at some point I was also becoming paranoid because I was like why everybody is trying to control me and not letting me do what I know I need to do. You're still worried about but like the thing is like they were making things worse by that. I know cuz I'm like if I can just work out, eat, and do my thing and not feeling like they wouldn't let me use my phone. They would not use my I could like it was crazy to me. I was like, "Is that a prisoner?" He was like, "Is that a weird dream?" Like, you know, like where like it was kind of unreal. But the the back fell like kind of like, "Okay, this is real. This is definitely not a dream." And so like starting doing, you know, more of my things and being back in here and cuz I was like completely out of my, you know, my routine and my element cuz I was on the east coast where I'm I'm not from like so it was very strange this whole experience. How do you feel now? I feel good. I mean now that now the fatigue has start to catch up with me. Okay. I mean, my mom can attest to how I'm feeling because she's seen me the whole week. Go ahead. But no, I'm feeling much better. Just like like I get tired like I train people after two, three people. I'm like, "Yeah, I need to go home." So, you get tired a little bit more fast because probably in the last three weeks, I probably until the last two, three nights, I was probably averaging like two, three hours a night of sleep. Oh, that's not good. So, no. Yeah. How long What's a normal night of sleep for you? For me, like like eight eight hours. Yeah, between 6 and 1/2 to 8 and 1/2 hours. You've been training. Yeah, but that's the thing right now. It's like I'm so tired that I can't train too hard, but like I still need to train to drive my blood sugar down. Yeah. So, I'm trying to, you know, not trying, but like I'm I'm finding my balance again. I have to slowly take the steps. I can't just go hard to the gym. And that's why like the other day we did like a a quick like, you know, was like a lot of volume. It was a complete workout but it was like and I'm not usually doing a lower volume because I have to eat so much that if I spend too much time in the gym I can't even eat enough. I wonder why this started happening to you last year like what made I mean you never had any problem before. No I think it's like I said first of all it was a dehydration with the d side. Yeah that didn't help. Then from there I didn't sleep much because between the show and the other I had to wake up early get on my packing everything. So then the lack of sleep and then the whole week trying to carb up I was, you know, because blood sugar was high. I was spreading my meals and I had to eat like seven meals, eight meals a day. Yeah. You know, 150 grams of carbs per meal minimum. And uh so it was spreading my days really long. So I would stay up late, wake up early to try to get the meals in. I see. I see. So then like lack of sleep, lack of sleep, lack of sleep with the dehydration. Yeah. And that's what started it. Well, you can't do that anymore. No. No. Definitely not. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So, what's the plan then uh looking forward? Well, the plan right now is just kind of like again I said refining my balance again and like I'm slowly getting there but like I have that's the thing is like I need to work out and I want to work out but I have to like go easy and like you know slowly increase and and like meanwhile trying to increase the food and get make sure I get the sleep in and then the plan is to compete in November. Okay. Yeah. Where? First in France. That's going to be the comeback show November 8th and then in Japan November 24th. Oh, nice. Yeah. And then you like you like to go overseas to train. You don't Well, that's what's available cuz I was looking at Yeah. I don't mind at all cuz I always my whole life, you know, since a young kid, I traveled a lot. Yeah. Like when I was a baby, I was born in France, but then my parents live in Nigeria. So, I was on the first plane after two months or one month I was on the plane already and then from there France went to like everywhere. Yeah. It's good. And Switzerland. Yeah. Yeah. It's good to see what's what else is around. I think it opens your mind for sure. Like makes you more openminded. It makes you appreciate where you decide to settle that too. But also it makes you more open-minded in the sense that you can see different cultures. Even just being from France to Switzerland, you know, when when we moved to Switzerland, the French team in soccer just won the World Cup. So there was all the ads, everything. And we were excited. We just moved to Switzerland. We're like, "Wow, we're French world champion for the first time." But from the Swiss perspective, was like, "Look at these guys. They keep like the bragging and stuff." It's like it's the pride. It's not necessarily bragging. But yeah, if you see it from their point of view, they watching all French TV and all that stuff. It's like, yeah, it's kind of like down my throat a little too much, you know. So then you start saying, you know, there's a a lot of things are just perspective in life, you know, when you see different people, different opinions and stuff. It's just a matter of like how you perceive it. It's not necessarily like, oh, the the bad person and the good person. It's kind of just like how each other perceive each other. That's right. That's right. Well, Stan, I really appreciate you. uh telling your story. I think people were going to be glad to hear it because I think a lot of people were worried about you, you know. So, I'm glad you're doing well right now. And then uh what we'll do is uh next time you compete again and you're ready, we'll do like a an updated part. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Jacked again. Yes. I mean, you're still in shape. I mean, you still look good, but you're just a little smaller than you normally are. Yeah, for sure. That's okay. Yeah. Merci. No mercy for you, no worries for you. That Game of Thrones go on you. I keep the script, I roll the dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to shut