 The Steve Carr Classic, I'm with my good friend Austin. Austin, I remember the first time you took over the show for your dad, you came to Venice to do an interview, and then I have to tell you, over the year, this show keeps getting better and better, and it really evolved. Every year it's getting better, now you have webcasts, everything, interviews. I remember I asked my wife, I said I gotta go down to Venice, and I think we were down there for Disneyland, and I said I'm gonna see if I can meet up with Dave Verlaine, Mad Max Muscle, and then I was like man, I think you were training with Eric, and you came to the gym, and you were like, I'll talk to you outside, I'm gonna eat my post-workout cards. And then as soon as I saw you, I was like, this is the poster, I had the poster of the 2017, and I'm like man, that was like, I think the first year I was promoting it, and I was like man, I've never promoted before, but you know what the thing is, I had my dad's passion for it, so I was like man, I want to promote, promote, promote, promote, promote, so it just, it was easy for me to like, just get into it, man, so this year, we added the 2025, the Pro Classic Vizique, we had over 22 IFBB Pros, like five of them were in the Olympia, so we had some Olympians, and then we also, last kind of minute, Jared, me and Jared, the title sponsor, RP Strange, he was like dude, we should add women's pro bodybuilding, and I was like, you know what, there's not a lot of shows for the women, and then also, they can stay healthy, and do it right after the Olympia, so they're already in shape. Yeah, so we ended up getting 16 committed at first, and then we ended up, I think only 11 did the show, but for pro women's bodybuilding, that's a lot of people, and if you look right here, we have the first place winner, Ashley Jones, Ashley Jones right here, look at this, look at it, first time, second place runner up at the O, and she is looking phenomenal, thank you, oh thank you, you kind of just joined in the interview, I'm in the Nevada Brothers, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry, but she's from Texas, Texas, Texas Motor Race, yeah, Texas Motor Race, oh sure, okay, so wait, real quick, how long have you been competing, because like, competing professionally, since 2018, okay, so you started, yeah, when did you turn pro? 2018, I started competing, competing in 2016. Where did you turn pro at? In Miami, 20, uh-huh, yep, in Miami, isn't that crazy, yeah. So, you came up, like, in the last two years, you've been killing it, because you got third last year? Third last year, yeah, yeah. When I saw that you said you want to do the show, I was like, no way, there's no way, some clickbait. I had to, yeah, support my girls, yeah, support you as well, so. I appreciate you, um, you're good for the Olympia for next year, so you're going to do weight the whole year? You're just going to weight, let this body rest, come in fresh, and, uh, hopefully take that title next year. Okay. Oh, I know a lot of people, we already were saying, it was close, it was very close. I mean, she's an amazing champ, she's an amazing champ, I don't know, like that. You got, you got, remind me of kind of like a Keon, Sean Clarita, like round bubbly. I don't think it. I think she's more, a little bit taller, but aesthetic. Yeah, yeah. But it just depends on what the judges want. That's it, that's it. But you, you are definitely on the rise. You're, you're young, are you younger? I am 34. Oh my God, 34, perfect name, man. 34. Yeah. I wish I was, I wish I would have started at 34. 34. So, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I think, uh, yeah, you sky's the limit. Sky's the limit. You got a great physique and, uh, I wish you nothing but the best. Maybe we'll get you back here if you get that title. We're going to make it happen. We'll make it happen. Awesome. Congratulations. So anything you want to shout out? Like. My goodness. Come to the show, you guys. If you have not done the show, please do it. The energy, the passion, the people, everything here. It's everything that you want to participate as an athlete. Come do it. I appreciate you. I appreciate you. We'll, uh, we'll collab and get some, uh, I just want to say thank you again. And, uh, nothing but the best. Just stay healthy and do your thing. Do your thing. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Do you need help, Karen? Oh, you got your, you got everything? Okay. Well, you got some heavy hitters doing your show. How does that make you feel? I just want to know where is full-time bodybuilder at? Where are you, Jay? I'm going to talk about it right now. I would love to come back and compete and do your show. I've never done it. Yeah. If I compete again, I'll do it for sure. Are you going to come back? I would love to. I know you, I know you took care of all that other stuff, but if you could come back, man, I would love to have you. I would love to. Bro, I would love to have you in the show. Yeah. That would be, that would be amazing. That would be great, yeah. That would be a great comeback story, too. That would be awesome, yeah. Oh, shit. Well, let me know. Let me know. Well, anyway, I just wanted to have a few minutes with you. I know you have a lot to do today. Look at the crowd, bro. Look at the crowd. I know, it's packed. Look at this thing. It's packed. What the? I filmed it earlier. I couldn't believe it. I mean, we do, we really do good every year, but I feel like this year with the pros, I mean, we'll, I mean, even look at the, the amateur guys are even good. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's insane, but you guys are, uh, stay tuned for more shows to come. Um, I'd like to get more, maybe another pro show or maybe another NPC show. So, yeah. I just kind of see what the schedule looks like. Now, I wanted to ask you, uh, I meant to, I meant to say, this is the longest running show in Las Vegas. What was the first year your dad had it? First year was 1990 when Charles Glass was the guest poser. Wow. And I think Charles Glass was just turning pro and he did the guest pose. Because back then we had the IFBB pro, uh, Wiedert contracts. So, all the pros were under a contract for Ben Wiedert. They were required to do, uh, guest posings at all the local shows. Oh, man. So, we got a different pro every year. Like, we got Guntar Schlurthoff, uh, Mike Maserato. That's awesome. I don't even know. Uh, what's his name? Apavan. Which one? Melvin Anthony. Oh, yeah. I mean, we got all the top, top guys. Jay, Jay Culler did it in the first year he won his, uh, his, won his title. Did you ever have Chris Cormier, though? No. Chris Cormier. Chris Cormier never did it. No. No, I've never seen him, but I saw Melvin Anthony. He's a great poser, you know. I've seen Melvin Anthony. Lex Wheeler, I think Lex Wheeler guest pose. He was with Wheeler, too. Yeah. Oh, yeah, you were a Wheeler contract, right? Oh, shit. Well, why did you do the show? You should have guest pose. Man, I should have, man. I don't even know. I didn't have time to drop my water or nothing. Yeah, it's never too late. Chris, come back. You want to cut the, you want to go back on stage? Yeah, man. I want to, I want to do something. I always love giving back to the sport, and, yeah, like I said, you have a great production team here. You did a great job, man. I'm really impressed with it. I'm, I'm, I was excited to see some legends in the house. I'm an old school bodybuilding fan, and I saw Lex Wheeler, Dexter Jackson, Chris Cormier. I mean, we don't see that often. Hey, we're missing you, Jay. Where you at, Jay? Where you at, Jay? Yeah. You got some great vendors. I got me sitting here. You got some local. You stole that? I bought it, man. I actually bought you. Hey, where'd you get that at? I'm going to get some. Right there. Yeah. I'm about to go right now. I'm about to go right now. All right. Well, Ray. Thank you again. Hey, thank you, dog. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Yeah, I'll try to hook up. Maybe, for sure. I'll have to do some stuff. Any part, man. Awesome. All right. Well, Dave, thank you again. All right. Thank you so much, guys. Mad Max TV or Jay Cutler TV? Jay Cutler TV. Jay Cutler TV. All right. Thank you, guys. Have a good night. Thank you, Mario. A following hit from 46, Keith Kerr. Thank you, Keith. Out next, number 47, Kevin Patterson. Thank you, Keith. Thank you, gentlemen. Routing out this group represented the United States Army. Number 48, Mr. Roe Ross. Thank you, Roe. All right, we'll have the trophy presenters come out to the center line. In fifth place, number 46, Keith Kern. In sixth place, number 47, Kevin Patterson. Knock up to fourth place, number 48, Roy Ross. And in third, number 44, Eric Castro. And in second place, the player number 45, Mario Delonte. And I need your winner again, number 42, Shamar Brown. Right down to the front pose. And one more time, a big round of applause for your Masters over 45. Well done, gentlemen. Thank you. We are moving along to our Masters over 40. All right, you guys. We're at the 2025 Siege Card Classic. And today was the return to Stanimals in the Classic Classic. Congratulations, man. You look awesome. Thank you, man. How was it to come back? You've been stopping for like a year and a half. Yeah. And today was your return. How did that feel? It felt great. I just missed it so much. Did you? Yeah, I really missed it. Sorry. That's okay. No, it feels great. And it was really amazing to be able to get back on stage. Yeah. I've been, you know, this past year, it's been like questioning a lot if I would be able to do that again. Front last break. A lot of challenges for you. Yeah, exactly. So. And it's the kind of thing that we don't want to talk on social media. Or we want to kind of keep it private because we don't feel good. Exactly. You know, you don't want to tell the whole world, but it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. No, that's the truth about it. Honestly, I got a huge support and I haven't been this quiet on social media as I've been lately. But just been going through a lot. And today was very emotional to get back on stage. And it felt great to be able to do that. I think I brought a really good package. I was very happy with the conditioning I brought. Dom did a great job like coaching me. Really nailing the peak, really like perfectioning everything. And it's been amazing to work with him. Do you think it's easier to have a coach that's local that can actually see you in person? I mean, I work great with Patrick Tior. I think I'm very coachable. I have a lot of sports background and I listen. I do everything by the book. But having the coach here looking at you. In person. Yeah. I stayed at his house last night. He just looked at me every hour. You know, adjusting the part, adjusting everything, checking my blood sugar. Like, it's just really, really helpful. I think it's an advantage. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. I can't believe your journey, man. I mean, I remember when you moved to Venice. You were already training there. And started competing. And all the classes. Yeah. Made it all the way up to Open. Yeah. And you decided to go back to Classic. Which I'm really happy about because I thought when you were doing Classic, you were one of the better ones. Like, you did the Olympia a few times. And it just, it was a good fit for you, I think. Yeah. Don't you? Yeah. I mean, I was just, the weight limit was lower back then, too. And I was... You lowered it? No, it was lower back then. Oh, okay. Great. And so, and also, like, I was, I was, you know, bodybuilding for me is about improving all the time. So, I was just outgrowing the division at the time. But now with, you know, the diabetes, it just, to me, I didn't think like it was a healthy way to just go about it. Just trying to push a lot of insulin just to get all those carbs. And so, for now, I think this is the smartest way. And, like, if everything starts clicking and I start growing and I'm growing it again, I'll go back to Open. I have no problem with that. Yeah. Yeah. I think sometimes bigger is not always better. Oh, exactly. I mean, I remember when you won the Italian show. Where was it? San Marino. San Marino. Oh, my God. Yeah. You look like picture perfect. Thank you. You know? So, I think you're going to keep getting better and refining your physique. Yeah. It's going to go in the right direction. Yeah, we're going to keep, like, I'm still adding back tissue. Like, it's still everything in my body is all adjusting to all those changes. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, keep tightening up the waist, keep improving the fullness. Because we just put the tissue back on the last few weeks and then we have to push conditioning. So, it's just a lot of, like, up and down. And I think once I, you know, after this next show, going into a health phase, solidifying all the muscle and, you know, really start to get a really good look. Do you have any other plans to compete, like, this week? Next week, yeah. Next week? Next week? Yeah. Where? In Fort Lauderdale. Oh. Team Garner show. Okay. And then is that the only one or? Yeah, because I think after that, that's about it for now. But next year, I'm planning on doing more shows. Of course. Yeah. Of course. Well, we're so happy for you. Thank you, Dave. Jay made it a point. You reminded me that you're competing as we as. You got to go. You got to go. Sam's coming back. Thank you. Thanks, Jay. He's always a big fan of yours. I appreciate it. We're behind you 100%. So we're really happy for you. Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thank you.