Yeah, he's looking. She's watching you. Yeah. You guys always ask me why it's just Capone walking with me. What? Cuz he's Yeah, he's he he is in New Jersey right now. So, do you miss him? Um, yeah. I mean, I miss I'm sure he's going to be excited. And what happens is when he comes back, he'll sniff everything cuz he missed, you know, 5 days of walking. Is that how long she's behave? Thursday. So Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. Yeah. What? 6 days. She's coming back today or tonight? She'll be back late tonight. Yeah. She went to see her dad for his birthday. Oh, yeah. And then we go to Nashville on Friday. Oh, you like do you like Tennessee? It's pretty nice. I It's really busy. Downtown is crazy. Like, it's like Vegas. It's like the New Vegas. It's just um all you know, a lot of bachelorette parties and but yeah, it's uh Nashville. Nice place to live. I don't know. Well, there's no state income tax. I just don't know. I venturing out, you know, ask Flex. Flex lived in He did Knoxville or somewhere. He had the juice bars there, remember? Is that what he did? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Brendon used to train together there. Yeah. I mean, there was you know they have you know uh Brent has carbon culture out there and that Brandon's a part of that one location and uh you know Brent owns Armada which is a manufacturing and he uh Mark Loliner is out there. Yeah. Oh yeah. So they're all they're all part of that carbon thing out there. They have a pretty good gym culture there. Yeah. And then uh I know that that Doug is opening a clinic there called Relieve. Okay. You know, which is do I uh it was it was Revive before, but it's called Relieve now. So I know Doug's opening up that I think it should be open anytime. So last year I got to go out and train when I was there. I got to train with um Brent and I got to see Mark. Mark's doing something really cool there where, you know, Mark owns Tiger Fitness, but yeah, he has, you know, his supplement brand or whatever else, but he he's actually has like a a training uh area for like um athletes for kids and, you know, he works well with his his kids sports, you know. So, I like I like kind of that culture and, you know, teaching the youth. It's kind of funny. I just did AI just did an Instagram. I don't know if you saw it like a short I think it might have been a YouTube short too, but I talked about on the podcast if I was to raise my child to train, I would still keep them like I would do machines, but I would try to teach them the core movements, you know, the squat, the deadlift, the bench press. It's like what's what do you think is the first exercise you ever did when you went in the gym? Is it bench press? Yeah. I mean, I think that's all like the standard. And it's kind of funny because full circle now I don't I talk about it's like the worst exercise for bodybuilding, right? To get on a barbell and granted I still do it once in a while just not heavy weight. But the problem is you get so strong as you grow as a bodybuilder, you know, competitive bodybuilder and you know, you get national level pro that it's just it puts way too much tension on the shoulder joint and it you know, everyone tears their pec. And you know what? And someone's going to hear this video and they're going to say either I tore my pack or they're going to say, "Well, I'm I still love bench pressure." And I'm like, "Nfortunately, they're going to tear their pack." Because it can happen with, you know, it rarely happens with 135. But when you start putting three 225 315 45 I remember two times at Sahara Decator two twice I was like I'm going to bench press cuz Ronnie Coleman was a big bench presser. He always did flat bench cuz we trained together when we traveled. I remember specifically when we went and we trained in Pittsburgh he would do chest on Saturday. I remember he would do flat bench, incline bench and decline bench all barbells. So, I'm like, "You know what? I I like how it felt because I do get a crazy pump from it." And I remember getting up to four plates and being so strong and ripping through the reps and like I got to like six or seven and all of a sudden, oh, I felt a little twinge twice. Oh jeez. And this was like 05. So, I was on the verge of winning. Yeah. And it could have changed the whole It's scary process. You know, Steve Murphy used to talk about that a lot. He did. Yeah. because he said uh that what what attached the pec to the shoulder is very short tendon it's very you know so it's not much even though you may be strong as hell eventually if you um sometime people just like you know especially when you get strong you don't you barely warm up but I think you start torquing you know like when you torque because you get so strong that it's like you know repetitions it depends on your speed I mean you've watched a lot of people like a Michael Hearn will really go through and you can see like the whole chest and he listen he could sit here and like I still see him benching or whatever. He does it more in seems like incline it's I I can't say people don't tear their pack on incline. I've actually seen it I've watched a guy try to reach his arm and it was out of the socket and everything but oh my god uh it's just not the best exercise. So, you can do a lot with dumbbells and machines and other stuff, but you talk, we're going back to that those movements, you know, you're still going to like the kids in high school going to bench press, especially the kids training for football and uh more functional training. Remember, you're training for power. So, it's like you, you know, it's pushing movements, you know, off the ground movements, you know, vertical jumping, whatever else. I mean, the athletes do train do a lot of different drills now. That's what's advanced, too. And that's why like the NBA, NFL, there's so many talented stars. Like, not to say like back in the Jordan era or a Walter Payton era for football, it's like those guys, there's those freaks that can that can kind of move like that. But the functional training is just so the guys that don't have the ability can actually transform into like look at Tom Brady who was pic drafted, you know, in whatever the sixth round and becomes like the best quarterback of all time. Like how how's that happen, right? Yeah. So, and and listen, no one thought I was going to be Mr. Olympia necessarily either. I mean, Milo says it all the time on our podcast. He's like, "If I" He said, "I probably would have bet any amount of money that you wouldn't have bet like I wouldn't have seen it." You know what I mean? Money, too. You used to say that. And look at what happened. I mean, you just sometimes I mean, Nick Walker's proven everyone wrong with his genetics, too. I mean, he's won an Arnold Classic, two New York pros, third in the Olympia. Come on. Like I mean people argue all day. Oh, you know, so how are you going to count a guy out like that? Yeah, that's for sure. Hard work. Branch Warren's another one. Look at Branch Warren's career. Second place, dude. Next to me. I know people. That was shocking. I mean, he he may think like he arguably could have beat me on certain things, you know. That was nothing wrong with that. He did look great in 09. probably best hour. Yeah, that's true. All right, we're going to jaywalk a little bit. We'll get around the neighborhood with enough talking in my kitchen. Okay. All right. A little windy today, guys. So, let's hope for the best with the mics. They are. We don't get many complaints anymore, man. No, we don't. We don't. I mean, you've rescheduled times, you know, when it's like too windy. So, yeah. So, tell them that cuz Hey, J. I mean, some sometimes I'll get up and he's like, "Ah, you know what? It's too windy today. That's just to tomorrow." Yeah. See, only uh a couple downfalls with the desert, but I never knew that Nevada had such windy conditions. Me neither. No one ever talked about that. They only talk about it's hot all the time, but I think the heat is here to stay. Oh, yeah. Well, you sent me a screenshot. I sent you a screenshot. What is So it says 108 I think this week, right? The whole week like I sent it to I sent it to Brad. He's in Thailand or still or Dubai. Yeah, I think he and he's like I don't I couldn't take that that heat. But I think Dubai is going to be just as much. I don't know why he's Oh, yeah. Did he Did he move there or what's He's over there doing uh he's doing like tissue therapy and really Yeah. He's just kind of traveling, you know, since he's semi-retired now. He kind of sold off a little bit of his business and Okay. Okay. He's trying to enjoy life. Well, it's good for him. Yeah. We were talking about this the other day in the scope of, you know, politics and the atmosphere of the conditions in the US and, you know, of course, we hear so much news and we're not sure about that news, but like a lot of people are deciding to go international. Yeah. You know, I think US US used to be this place that everyone was like wanted to come here. Yeah. There's just I mean, listen, there's great places. We were just talking about Nashville and uh how we liked it, but um it really comes down to, you know, you hear these nightmares about California and oh jeez, other other states, right? New York City. Oh jeez. The two coasts are like gh not good right now. Which is funny because I used to love my trips to New York. I was talking to back in the day, dude. Everyone wanted to be either New York, California. New York, California. It's funny. I was talking to Steve Weinberger about the the uh the Atlantic States was last week and Nick Walker guest posed. Oh, yeah. Looked tremendous by the way. But that was kind of our that was our last harrah. I mean, the West Coast Classic was too, but yeah, I would always kind of like that was when I would go into prep. I always started my prep around the time in June when I guest posted at Steve's show and I used to love staying in the city. You know, I would kind of rotate hotels and you know, I stayed at like W's and I stayed at Ritz Carlton's and some really like that was the time where I'm like, you know what, I'm going to treat myself and stay in an upper upper service hotel. Uhhuh. and spend because I knew I was going into that full-fledged prep. Yeah. And it's funny, I was talking to this girl Danielle at the gym last night who's doing a lot of, you know, she's starting to do vlogging on on YouTube. So, I went up her and told her, you know, keep doing it cuz I ran across on YouTube and we were talking about uh we were talking about like you doing YouTube and and content and this and jaywalking and, you know, the experience and whatnot. And I mean it was I just you know with content bro it's it's important to to stay constant with it. Yeah. That's one thing that we were always doing. I mean when you were at Gold's Venice I mean I remember every day you'd be like so and so's coming. This person's coming and I remember you were pretty busy all the time. All the time. There was always something happening. Yeah. Those were the good old years. I'm glad I was there. have been from the early 90s all the way up to when the hits the fan. But you know, I was also telling her I remember I used to call you because I was deep into prep, you know, by the time like I I started in June, then you got in July and then it's like August and it was so monotonous. I remember do you remember me calling you? I was training at like 2:00 in the afternoon at Gold's Gym Lake me and I was like, "Dave, what's going on out here? I need some action. Every day he would call me because it was just so like there wasn't really anything happening. So, you know, we talk about being in the gym. Like last night, I think I sent you a video and I said, "Dude, I'm the only one in here right now." And I really enjoy that. Yeah. But we were talking. She was like, "You know, sometimes I need a little social to kind of motivate me, of course." And that's why like we at 8:00 should have launched. Right now we have the chest training from Saturday that I shot with JMA. Yeah. And uh that's that has a little more interaction because I did it at Fit Club down by the strip. Okay. Cuz listen, we can go to Kilos and we can go to these other places. But it's uh it's not as busy. It's not as busy now. I'm going to hide this mic a little bit. Yeah. So encouragement to anyone out there doing anything that involves commitment and dedication to it. The consistency is key in that, right? Of course, isn't that absolutely necessary? So the dogs are looking for a kapone today. I know. There goes my buddy. So the question is, are you going to take the bike out? Yeah. Now it's still a good time because it's not too hot. Although, well, I shouldn't say that. You were just asking me about a park that Yeah. What do you think was was your favorite? Did you have a favorite ride of Vegas? Like, did you go to Red Rock out? Red Rock Loop is great. Yeah. You know, there's a little sort of like a little city about halfway to Red Rock. You know that? And that they have like restaurant and I saw it. Post office. It's so cute. It's right on that side road, right? Yeah. And if you don't know it's there, very easy to pass it. Yeah. But I went there. I would stop by with the bikes and have a coffee. It's funny. So my neighbor, you know, he had his vet out the other day, his Corvette, and I he stopped and you know, I was backing out of my driveway and he's like, "I just did Red Rock." And he's like, "And I got a ticket." Oh no. Uh doing 110 or something. Oh. And I said I said, "Oh no, he didn't let you go." He's like, "No." I said, "Well, do you get to go out much?" She's like, "No, I don't get to take it out that often." But she said, "That's such a good drive." There's no one on the road. Yeah, it's very nice. Well, it's that it's kind of like if I'm on a motorcycle. Yeah. There's no real cross streets. That's dangerous. Yeah. It's not dangerous. It's very good visibility. Only two lane, but yeah, that's it's a lot of fun. I I wonder if I'll ever ride again, Dave. Really? I mean, I don't know. I would probably rent something in California, but it's too bad you're retired now. You could. I think I I want to live longer if I can, you know. Well, you don't have to be crazy on the bike. Yeah. I'm worried about other people. I know. It's a problem. Text messaging changed the game. I know. Yeah. These dogs are mad at us. That's true. All right. Well, guys, uh appreciate you guys for following along the jaywalk. Um, like I said, Nashville this weekend and then uh the next one's uh June 22nd, Riverside, California. But uh big shout out to everyone out there that's pushing their goals. It is what day? Tuesday. Tuesday. Tuesday. So, I hope you guys keep crushing. You'll be getting this video the end of the week. And uh make sure you guys like, subscribe, follow, and uh keep following our jaywalk. And Dave and I were out Game of Thrones on the script. I wrote a dice. Don't fall asleep cuz I'm working nights. Hey, you trying to shut