Meal one is basically 12 eggs, two whole eggs, a bagel dry, uh one cup of oatmeal with a tablespoon of honey, one banana, and four rice cakes basically. And then cup of coffee and about two or three glasses of Crystal Light. And then usually I'll shower, answer a couple emails, head to the gym about an hour after that for my first training session, train for about an hour, hour and a half between drive time and training. Come home, I usually have a serving of protein powder, which mixed with usually 16 ounces of Gatorade. I usually have two packets of sugar oatmeal with uh two tablespoons of honey. Usually five rice cakes with that. A fat-free muffin, brand muffin. Maybe I'll have some some sort of fruit like raisins or banana. Uh something of that sort. So basically try to shoot for about 200 carbs for that meal. And the first meal is about 200 carbs also. I'm really keeping track of my carbohydrates. Try to eat about 1,000 a day. So usually I try to answer a couple emails, take care of a couple phone calls. I nap for about 45 minutes to an hour. I get up. I have about 6 oz of pasta with about 6 oz of red meat. My next meal, an hour or two after that, usually like 5 oz of chicken breast, usually two cups of rice with some vegetables. And then I head back to the gym, usually after that, about an hour after that. And I train for my second session for about 45 minutes. Come home and I have the same meal as I had for meal two with the powder and Gatorade and such, oatmeal. An hour after that, I have another pasta meal, which I have about 5 ounces of pasta and I have about 5 ounces of red meat. I add red meat into my offseason regimen, which I don't do pre-contest. And then the meal after that, I usually eat out at least once a day. We usually go for some sushi. So, I have about two or three rolls of sushi, different various sushi, just usually some sort of uh tuna or yellow tail, then some sort of vegetable roll, and then I come home after that and uh we usually uh take care of business, whatever else we have to do. if uh answer a couple more emails, phone calls, and then continue to eat basically uh the same foods through the day that I ate through the day. Uh chicken breasts, some sort of oatmeal, egg whites. I I usually have egg whites closer to bedtime with uh oatmeal, something more fibrous, or some vegetables. And then of course uh a protein shake before I go to