Hey Dr. Rand, thank you for all the great videos you provide to us. There's a lot of peptides out there today. It's a bit confusing. Is there one you recommend for helping recover from an injury and so what what would be the daily dosage? Thank you for taking my question, Victor M. Victor M. Victor I wish I could have you live here so I could ask you what kind of injuries are we talking about because that's a open-ended question obviously like what I will do though for now anyway otherwise it'll be even more long-winded than usual. >> [laughter] >> Let's assume we're talking soft tissue injury, right? Not a broken bone and stuff like that. Because I think I know where this might have originated the question because one of the peptides that's become very popular is BPC-157. It can actually either separately or in combination with what people are using now TB-500 which is a is a fragment of something and very close to at least in effect thymosin beta 4, okay? Thymosin beta 4 would be its naturally occurring form but people I think know it as TB-500. I think that's what gets manufactured by pharmacies more often than not but at any rate they're both good for soft tissue injuries that include ligaments and tendons particularly. That's I think where it first got some some some traction in in in the sports industry and in regenerative medicine industry because people looked at the mechanism by which it works. Oh, that'd work great for for that. Also though and it's purported the BPC-157 is purported to have been manufactured endogenously in the GI tract so and I've read something that contradicts that but anyway assuming it is or not it doesn't really matter but it can also be used as as my point for healing the the lining of the GI and in that case obviously it would make more sense to ingest it even though it's a peptide and could get you know altered in the stomach acid. Obviously it still seems to do better that way than the injection although you could use either avenue to help with the GI tract as well. So that's considered soft tissue and can be injured. Peptic ulcers, you know, acid reflux can injure the GI so it can be very valuable. Can also help with you know the the loose loosening of the tight junction in other words a leaky gut syndrome, right? As long as you could stop the insult it could help it heal. So anyway those are the injuries I think I'll I'll try and address with peptides since we don't have anything else to go on but they work in somewhat similar fashion and generally speaking you know strong anti-inflammatory effect um there's some um actually even some neurological well we say we should stick well nerves are soft tissue but I again ligaments and tendons inflammation um collagen formation what else? Anyway some by the same mechanism you know for example with inflammation there's some reduction in the same cytokines but they also work synergistically right? Meaning separately they each do a lot of the same things but together you know 1 + 1 is 3 just to make sure we're on the same page is what what I define synergistically so you know much like vitamin C and glutathione are you are better together than separately because they can work synergistically together but the um uh let's see the the one difference though between the two TB-500 you're going to work with actin fibers which is why initially I used to say no no no from what we know now TB-500 and thymosin beta 4 would be better for say you know a muscular injury or you know a lot of times it's hard to tell when you have an injury it's like a ruptured Achilles. You know, sometimes it's not actually on the Achilles tendon it's in that transition zone so is it really more muscular or is it more tendinous? So oh no no we we should probably focus on TB-500. All that's moot now because with further study it looks like at least theoretically the two have a lot in common. One of the other mechanisms is what we call angiogenesis so developing blood flow into the area as well as you know the reduction of you know the inflammation and the and the formation of you know some of the other healing elements including actin and and like I said collagen and so those are probably the major two that are brought up to me when patients come in and ask about peptides and unfortunately however we don't have the human studies we need and I'm not a big fan of using animal studies as a way to justify either. I think we've talked about that before. Wistar rats are pretty much overweight type two diabetic rats and so don't necessarily represent the population of humans anyway even if there was crossover between rat and human DNA. So those are lacking but anecdotally I've seen it and of course these things come to the the popular press as it were long after they've been experimented with typically with athletes so you know anecdotally I've seen some good success with BPC-157 and to a lesser degree TB-500 but I I would recommend them because it looks like so far there aren't any downsides which is important part of all this stuff, even though we don't have the randomly controlled placebo-controlled randomized trials. That said I have to say that I'm working with someone actually a group and I'll give more details later because I don't want to to to uh yeah I don't I want to speak out of turn just yet but what we're we're planning on doing is an at least an observational study which is not the end all be all at all but with orthopedics obviously there's a lot of room for soft tissue healing. You know, you got to cut through the soft tissue and often times you know, resect a tendon to get to a shoulder you know, or replace a shoulder with a prosthesis or something like that. So we'll have an opportunity to do some more research and confirm hopefully that this stuff works well but again so far it doesn't look like there's any downside to these other than the cost which is always an issue practically speaking. There are other peptides though that can help with this that are not considered as as direct and of a healing agent but they're out there. I'm epitalon I mean there there uh there's groups I'm out there but I I would stick with those two because they all lack the the scientific backing of a good study anyway so let's at least stick with the ones that observationally anecdotally have some some science we'll call science behind them. Awesome.