 have have a have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have have It's a bit confusing. Is there one you recommend for helping recover from an injury? And so what would be the daily dosage? Thank you for taking my question, Victor M. Victor M. Victor M. I wish I could have you live here so I could ask you, what kind of injuries are we talking about? Because that's an open-ended question, obviously. What I will do, though, for now anyway, otherwise it will be even more long-winded than I usually do. Let's assume we're talking soft tissue injury, right? Right. Not a broken bone. No, no, no. I think it's probably muscular. Because I think I know where this might have originated the question because one of the peptides that's become very popular is BPC-157. And actually either separately or in combination with what people are using now, TB-500, which is a fragment of something and very close to, at least in effect, thymus and beta-4. Okay. Thymus and beta-4 would be its naturally occurring form, but people, I think, know it as TB-500. I think that's what gets manufactured by pharmacies more often than not. But at any rate, they're both good for soft tissue injuries that include ligaments and tendons particularly. That's, I think, where it first got some traction in the sports industry, in the generative medicine industry, because people looked at the mechanism by which it works. Oh, that'd work great for that. Also, though, and it's purported, the BPC-157 is purported to have been manufactured endocrinously in the GI tract. So, and I've read something that contradicts that. But anyway, assuming it is or not, it doesn't really matter. But it can also be used, as my point, for healing the lining of the GI. And in that case, obviously, it would make more sense to ingest it, even though it's a peptide, and could get, you know, altered in the stomach acid. Obviously, it still seems to do better that way than the injectable, although you could use either avenue to help with the GI tract as well. So that's considered soft tissue and can be injured. Peptic ulcers, you know, acid reflux can injure the GI. So it can be very valuable. It can also help with, you know, the loosening of the tight junction. In other words, a leaky gut syndrome, right? As long as you could stop the insult, it could help it heal. So anyway, those are the injuries I think I'll try and address with peptides since we don't have anything else to go on. But they work in somewhat similar fashion. And generally speaking, you know, strong anti-inflammatory effect. There's some, actually, even some neurologic, well, we say sick, well, nerves are soft tissue, but again, ligaments and tendons. Inflammation, collagen formation. What else? At any rate, some by the same mechanisms. For example, inflammation. There's some reduction, the same cytokines. But they also work synergistically, right? Meaning separately, they each do a lot of the same things, but together, you know, one plus one is three. Just to make sure we're on the same page is what I define synergistically. So, you know, much like vitamin C and glutathione are better together than separately because they can work synergistically together. But the, let's see. The one difference, though, between the two, TB-500, you're going to work with actin fibers, which is why initially I used to say, no, no, no. From what we know now, TB-500 and time-sen beta-4 would be better for, say, you know, a muscular injury. Or, you know, a lot of times it's hard to tell when you have an injury. It's like a ruptured Achilles. You know, sometimes it's not actually on the Achilles tendon. It's in that transition zone. So is it really more muscular? Is it more tendons? So I said, oh, no, no, no. We should probably focus on TB-500. All that's moot now because with further study, it looks like, at least theoretically, the two have a lot in common. One of the other mechanisms is what we call angiogenesis. So developing blood flow into the area as well as, you know, the reduction of, you know, the inflammation and the formation of, you know, some of the other healing elements, including actin and, like I said, collagen. So those are probably the major two that are brought up to me when patients come in and ask about peptides. And unfortunately, however, we don't have the human studies we need. And I'm not a big fan of using animal studies as a way to justify it either. I think we've talked about that before. Worcester rats are pretty much overweight type 2 diabetic rats and so don't necessarily represent the population of humans anyway, even if there was crossover between rat and human DNA. So those are lacking. But anecdotally, I've seen it. And, of course, these things come to the popular press, as it were, long after they've been experimented with, typically with athletes. So, you know, anecdotally, I've seen some good success with BPC-1057 and, to a lesser degree, TB-500. But I would recommend them because it looks like, so far, there aren't any downsides, which is an important part of all this stuff. Okay. Even though we don't have the randomly controlled, placebo-controlled, randomized trials. That said, I have to say that I'm working with someone, actually a group, and I'll give more details later because I don't want to speak out of turn just yet. But what we're planning on doing is at least an observational study, which is not the in-all, be-all at all. But with orthopedics, obviously, there's a lot of room for soft tissue healing. You know, you've got to cut through the soft tissue and oftentimes, you know, resect a tendon to get to a shoulder, you know, or replace a shoulder with a prosthesis or something like that. So we'll have an opportunity to do some more research and confirm, hopefully, that this stuff works well. But, again, so far, it doesn't look like there's any downside to these other than the cost, right, which is always an issue, practically speaking. There are other peptides, though, that can help with this that are not considered as direct of a healing agent. But they're out there. I mean, Epitalon, I mean, there's groups of them out there. But I would stick with those, too, because they all lack the scientific backing of a good study anyway. So let's at least stick with the ones that observationally, anecdotally, have some science, what we'll call science behind them. Awesome. Thank you.