 Gymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymym Just to be safe, let's take a picture of the liver and what's going on inside the abdomen with an abdominal ultrasound. Two days later, the labs come in, as does his abdominal ultrasound report. So you did a lot here. You ran serology for hepatitis A, B, and C. These viruses, as you mentioned, are common reasons for an acute spike in the transaminases because they attack the liver cells, the hepatocytes, and cause them to rupture. These tests were negative. You also ran an electrophoresis for M proteins, an antibody that is produced by specialized immune cells in a disease like multiple myeloma, for example. If the cells in the blood are producing abnormal protein fragments, they can deposit in the liver and cause damage. This was also negative. For some reason, the lab also tested for antimitochondrial antibodies. You didn't order that, but they tested it anyway. This is a specific marker for a disease called primary biliary cholangitis, a condition where the immune system decides to attack the small bile ducts or ductules within the liver. This test was negative as well. And the penultimate test, the abdominal ultrasound, looked for gallstones blocking a duct or a tumor or significant fatty infiltration of the liver. These were also normal. Finally, his repeat liver labs, which I'll send to you now. So in these labs, his ALT and AST continue to be elevated. His ALT is about twice the upper limit of normal. His AST is more mild but still elevated. And his GGT is also elevated. So Austin, again, I have three questions for you. And listeners, if you're playing along at home, let's see if you can answer them in the comments. So first thing, are you noticing an isolated transaminase elevation or is it more of a cholestatic pattern that you've talked about with these labs? And if so, what's the significance? That's question number one. Question number two, how would you explain what's going on with this patient to the patient to make sure that they have some understanding here? And then three, of course, what is your new differential diagnosis? Sure. Yeah. So it seems like now our ALT is essentially the same. It was previously 96. Now it's 101. That's basically the same. His AST was 49. Now it's 59. Slightly worse. Essentially the same. And his alkaline phosphatase is about the same as well. So overall, we have this kind of persistent smoldering picture. The directionality is slight trends towards worsening. And so this continues to have my attention of something that demands an explanation. That initial evaluation, very astute clinician, would have ordered those things. And it sounds like you covered a lot of the things that I had mentioned. For example, some infectious possibilities, obstructive possibilities, as well as the imaging, the ultrasound, the antimitochondrial antibody getting at those autoimmune causes of liver disease that I alluded to. So we've touched on a lot of things. There still remains the possibilities that I mentioned earlier of an ongoing toxic exposure, as well as fatty liver disease. And so those two remain both the most common and the things that are at the top of my list of suspicions here. There are still many more like rarer and less common causes of liver disease that can develop in people. So, you know, once we get sufficiently far down the rabbit hole, having ruled out more common things, we start to think more and more about, you know, types of autoimmune liver disease, deposition diseases like hemochromatosis, other conditions like alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, and less and less common sorts of things. But that's still not going to be in my first pass here. And interestingly, you know, we've been pretty focused so far on the labs from, you know, 2021, 2022, I think was, you know, when the initial visit to Asia happened and the subsequent follow-up. But you also provided me some labs going further back, as far back as 2010. And interestingly, when I look back across that whole lab trend, even back in 2010, you had an ALT and an AST level in the 40s. And one of the tricky things, this is something I come across in practice all the time, is that lab reference ranges for those transaminases are pretty variable between institutions. But real, you know, hepatology purists will say that an ALT of 40 is not normal. It might be very mildly elevated on that reference range. It doesn't get my attention nearly as much as an ALT level of 1,000. But that person's in acute liver failure, much more likely, right? But an ALT of 40 is not normal. And so the true, like if you look at their professional society is called the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases or the AASLD. And they have pretty stringent cutoffs for what normal transaminases should be before you start worrying about some form of hepatocellular injury, most commonly under-recognized as fatty liver disease. Even somebody with an ALT of like 28, 29, it might be in a territory where they're already starting to show signs of this. So now when I look all the way back to 22, this is like over a decade ago that he had some abnormalities at that point. They kind of smoldered, persisted a few years later, got a little bit better. Now they're getting worse again. And so with this degree of chronicity, I am much more suspicious, again, of something like fatty liver disease or less likely at this point some form of like autoimmune kind of disease that's like smoldering over time that can kind of relapse and remit. But that would be much less likely at this point without other features that I'd be looking for in a patient like this. So that's kind of my updated thought process based on the new labs you gave me and my persistent differential diagnosis that I am not wavering from at the moment. I'm sticking with my guns at this point. And so how would I talk about this with the patient? Well, first I would ask him like what his understanding is of what's going on to get a sense of where is he starting from? What has he been told? What is he most worried about? And also by listening carefully to the way that he describes his understanding, I can also elicit and get a sense of like what's his level of health literacy, his level of education, and like what level can I speak to him about? Or what level can I match him at when speaking about this topic? If he speaks to me in much more medical terms, I might glean that maybe he has a background and we can speak at a different level. But ultimately, my concern is that we have some sort of a long term issue that has been affecting his liver. And now it really seems to be declaring itself a bit more. So I can see some signs of it going back over a decade ago, but it was really, really mild. I wouldn't fault anybody for not making a big deal about it back then. It actually started to look a little bit better. But now it's like really starting to manifest. I would say this is still not a time to panic. He is not at imminent risk right now of something severe happening in the short term because that might be a big source of concern in somebody's mind. We still have time to figure this out. And this is something that we will get to the bottom of that. I would also kind of convey that sense of confidence. I can't say that I've had a scenario like this come up where it's just like, oh, well, you're just like never able to figure it out. There is something going on here. There will be an identifiable cause that we can detect. It's just going to be a little bit of time. And fortunately, we do have that time to get there. So that would be the way I would talk about it with him. Yeah, it seems like on the differential, you've moved past the viral hepatitis that he seems he's negative for that. You still have this non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or fatty liver disease on the differential, although it's less likely given his body habitus. He's very lean and appears to be active. The drug-induced liver injury still on the differential, especially if he's not really reporting all of the things that he's taking, especially in an active population, particularly like gym rats. You might be suspecting a supplement that's either contaminated or even just has the risk of causing this anyway. So, synephrine and caffeine, for example, has been directly associated with severe rhabdomyolysis, which can cause some elevated transaminases. Ephedra, which has been banned, is also linked to rhabdomyolysis, sometimes fatal cases. Many oral, anabolic, androgenic steroids can be hepatoxic. Many herbal dietary supplements, things like hydroxycut, garcinia, cambogia, and herbalife supplements have been associated with this. So it's still on the differential until effectively he's admitted and you're making sure he's not taking these. And you mentioned some of the other autoimmune conditions that we might not have evaluated for. Again, I noticed that you're still not saying exercise, although we don't have any other labs. It would be nice to have something like a creatine kinase to see like, oh, is that also elevated or like a myoglobin or lactate dehydrogenase, aldolase, something like that. You would expect those to also be elevated if this was exercise. But unfortunately, the lab, while running your antimitochondrial antibody, lost the sample and could not do that for you. So the initial workup for this patient included the viral markers and a liver ultrasound, all of which were negative. You've now ordered a third set of labs. But the patient says that he has some travel, so he can't get them done for a while, about two months after he returns. He says he travels a lot for work, which he generally enjoys, other than the fact he doesn't get to work out as much as he does when he's at home. His new liver panel comes in, and I'm going to send those to you now. So, yeah, the new liver panel came back, or everything was normal. Normal liver-associated enzymes, AST and ALT, normal GGT, normal ALK-FOS, bilirubin, you name it. Okay, so it's question time for you once again, Dr. Baraki, as well as the listeners at home. First question, one, how do you explain the resolved liver enzyme elevation? Two, what is your final diagnosis? And three, again, how are you explaining this to the patient? Yeah, so very good news for him in that his ALT is back down now into the 40s, and his alkaline phosphatase is mildly improved from prior. Most of the rest of the labs are in a more or less kind of similar place, but generally a trend towards improvement, which is super reassuring. And so this leaves us with a few different possibilities. If there was, for example, an ongoing toxic exposure that may have been removed for long enough for things to get better, whether we ever identify it or not, that's one possibility. There are many other infections beyond just hep A, hep B, hep C that can be, you know, injurious to the liver. And those viral infections can, for example, take a while and they can ultimately be cleared and lead to improvement. I really don't think that on the Barbell Medicine podcast, you're leading me down to an esoteric, you know, hepatotropic infection that we need to get to. But in real life, that would be on the list of possibilities of things that can do this. Autoimmunity, as we have talked about a couple times so far, is classically a kind of a pathologic phenomenon that can relapse and remit. And so people can have kind of more active forms of autoimmune disease followed by periods of kind of more relative quiescence where it calms back down over time. So that would also remain a possibility. But interestingly, I mean, you mentioned that he is, I think, generally quite healthy. We did not see evidence of severe, you know, fatty liver infiltration on his imaging. And so with this timeline, if he did not have substantial weight loss, that would no longer be a sufficient explanation for this kind of thing. Fatty liver disease, especially when you're manifesting elevations in liver enzymes, does not spontaneously remit absent substantial clinically significant weight loss, at least five plus percent. And gets better the more percent weight loss that somebody has. So if that has not changed, then now I've removed that from my list of possibilities. And you had mentioned, you know, that he is an avid exerciser. He traveled, maybe some changes in his exercise habits. And so that kind of brings us back to that original possibility, which we have never excluded from our list of considerations, but rather said it would be unwise to like commit to that as our diagnosis up front. What in the face of those. And so a lot of times among athletes, people who are highly active, people who pursue consultations with us or ask us this question on the forum. They're like, I had these incidentally found elevated liver tests, but I train all the time and I know that it can cause it. What should I do? Sometimes it's just a matter of, yeah, you might not like it, but you might need to just suck it up and take a few days off or schedule your next lab draw. You know, at least a few days after your last training session, maybe if you train during the week, you know, maybe reschedule your Monday session and get some labs done Tuesday morning to give yourself, I don't know, four days is maybe reasonable, but you know, people are different and you might still have some persistent elevations in that case. But you're right that along the way, you know, I would have already, I almost always do alongside these things, check some of those other tests, like an LDH, like a CK, some of those other things to try to differentiate where is the potential site of pathology here. And so, yeah, I'm back to some sort of exposure that is no longer present, an infection that was cleared that I might never actually be able to prove, autoimmunity that is, you know, in a remitting phase that is less likely at this point versus the removal of the exercise stimulus that may have contributed to some elevation in his liver enzymes. Which of those it is, I think would still require a little bit more longitudinal follow-up before you can put like a final stamp of there's absolutely nothing else here. This is just exercise, but that may be where we're headed at this point in the case. Yeah, it's a pretty interesting case. Apparently for this particular individual, before every lab draw that he remembers, he would go to the gym and work out. He's an AM exerciser. He looks at allymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymymym