 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning, and strength and conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum, and on this podcast, we're tackling five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial, but hey, we ended up here as a society, and so we're going to talk about it. We're going to talk about eggs and dietary cholesterol. We're going to, you know, the one rule to rule them all. We're going to talk about kyco, so calories and calories out, because people are confused about that. Folks who have a slow metabolism talk about that. Also a topical topic. I got stuck on my own sentence structure there. High fructose corn syrup versus cane sugar, that's in the news. We'll talk about that in the controversy there, and the anabolic window, all that and more. And hey, we got a quack watch of another doctor, so you want to stay tuned for that. On the other end of the line, however, is the second most handsome doctor in North America. Dr. Austin Baraki, what's going on, man? Hey, we're doing okay, gradually better and better as I settle into this new place. And yeah, I've been battling unintentional weight loss with all of the added physical activity of moving this past week. We sure that that's the cause? Yeah, it turns out moving around a ton more every day doing constant activity, and probably not eating enough means that you will tend to spontaneously lose weight. Well, I lost some weight in Greece, and obviously it's because of the food quality in Europe. It's so much better. Did we already start the podcast with nutrition controversies? Sure, yeah. Yeah, it's not the fact that I was doing average in 25,000 steps a day, not eating as much and dehydrated for sure. And I'll let the listeners think about why that may be the case. Anyway, before we get into the controversies, here are a few announcements. One, you listen to this podcast, you click play, you hear some ads, and you probably don't like that. We don't like it either. And if you want to listen to this podcast ad-free and you want to support what we do here, you can become a Barba Medicine Plus subscriber. It's about the cost of a cup of coffee every month. You get discounts on products like our programs, like our supplements, like our apparel. You also get early access to those things. So like the new low fatigue Generation 2 template that's about to drop. I'm really excited about that one. You'll have early access to it. You also get an extended free sample to make sure that's something that you want to get. First pass at our articles, you get transcripts on our podcast, and the first month's free. You can head over to barbamedicine.supercast.com, become a member today, and we'd really appreciate it. Also, we have a live in-person seminar. Dr. Baraki and myself, Tom Campatelli, Leo Lutz, will all be in San Antonio, September 20th to 21st. We're going to do a two-day in-person seminar. We're also going to be hosting, I believe, a train with us session the Friday before. So if you want to come hang out, you want to learn from us, you want to train with us, yeah, it should be great. It's our health and performance seminar. So everything from high blood pressure to high amounts of muscular force production, whatever you want to do, that's going to be going on in September. Any other announcements you want to make, Dr. Baraki? Nothing major at the moment. All right. Well, let's get into the quack watch here. Gabrielle Lyons, come on down. You're the next contestant on Barbell Medicine's Quack Watch. I've already sent this to you, but I will play the audio now for the listeners at home. Body requires 250 to 300 grams of protein to be able to deal with repair and replacement. And remember, we talked about anabolic resistance and the decrease in efficiency of skeletal muscle. This is what we're trying to overcome. And this is why it is so important. Which leads me to where we actually are. You have all heard of the RDA, right? The recommended dietary allowance. You heard about it in medical school in your seven hours of nutrition. That sucker hasn't changed in about 50 years. 50 years? That tells me one of two things. Number one, we haven't had any new information come out. Or number two, it hasn't been a prior. All right. It's the first claim here that I want to address is that the body requires 250 to 300 grams of protein to deal with repair and replace. And then it kind of dissolves into, I assume she means exercise, but does it actually say that? What the heck? Can you imagine another physician or even the health care professional, fitness professional anywhere just making a blatant claim, bold claim? Yeah, look, you got to get at least 250 grams of protein. Completely make that. Exercise. If maybe if she's only talking to people who weigh more than 250 pounds, which, not that many people. Yeah. Maybe. Right. Like still, I'm not convinced that that's absolutely necessary in that situation. I don't think that folks who are in those higher weight categories are generally super well represented in the data from which a lot of the protein recommendations are often derived. I don't again claim to be a pinnacle of expertise on the details of some of those papers as a non-protein researcher myself, but I think that the preponderance of those subjects are probably not north of 300 pounds to have confidence in saying that, oh, they definitely need 300 grams of protein per day. Otherwise, their results are compromised in some way. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, a person who's 250 pounds or more training a lot and relatively lean, that is effectively a person doesn't exist in society. Now, obviously there are people who are like that, but that's such a small proportion that it could not be possibly accurately captured in these large data sets. Here's the weird thing. So in the caption, she actually cites the Morton study. 15 minutes long. So there are people who are familiar with the literature, but maybe not on a first name basis or last name basis with the office. This is the study that basically said, look, you don't need to take in more than 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day because there's just no further resistance training induced gains after that. That doesn't mean you can't take it in from a health perspective, but they're like, look, that's like the upper limit. She even cites that in her caption as like a boom dunk. And it's like, where the hell did you get 250 to 300 grams of protein? Like saying that makes you look like a clown. Yeah. I think it is derived from what we call motivated reasoning. She wants that to be the case. And so therefore she concludes that that is in fact the case. Yeah. I mean, when I think about like on a mechanistic level, and this is just me purely speculating, I think that even the biggest of big folks that are training real, real hard, I suspect that there's like an upper limit of like useful protein intake that's probably in that 200 to 220 grams. I'm just, you know, because effectively you're getting such a high dose of essential amino acids that you actually don't need more protein than that. Like it kind of scales up to a point based on body weight. And then after that, you're like, bro, it's just, you just got a lot of protein. So. Yeah. And the other thing to consider is like, what is that additional protein beyond what you might absolutely require? What is that potentially displacing from your diet that may actually serve you better depending on the things you're trying to do. So if you're trying to, you know, balance, for example, strength, hypertrophy, and like endurance training, you're going down like the hybrid athlete type route, or you're actually trying to do no shit like endurance training, but you want to make sure you get enough protein. Well, yeah, you probably don't need to be going that quite that high. And you might actually perform a bit better if that is not displacing a ton of carbs from your diet. If you were trying to fuel that activity. Yep. Exactly. She briefly touches on anabolic resistance, you know, again, making this appeal like, look, some people are anabolicly resistant, basically mean that they have a sub normal or below average, what do you predict response to anabolic stimuli, in this case, dietary protein and resistance training. This tends to happen as people acquire medical conditions over the lifespan, and people when people get older, particularly if they're sedentary or insufficiently active. But, you know, this can be corrected with like a 10 minute walk, for example, or like literally engaging in any type of exercise at all. And the amount of additional protein that these people would need to get the same response is maybe a half serving, one serving more. So lol at 250 to 300 grams of protein, you imagine telling your mom, you know, it's some years from now. Hey, mom, mom, I think, I think you got to start taking it, you double your protein to take, because I'm worried about anabolic resistance. I'm lifting weights. What are you talking about, dude? Yeah, this is unfortunately super common with Dr. Lyons, as well as many other folks who seemingly weigh the variables implicated in or related to anabolicly resistant. Let me, let me say that again. They seem to weigh the different variables that relate to anabolic resistance equally. What I mean by that is they put equal importance on protein, for example, as they do with resistance exercise or any exercise in general. And I think that that is incorrect. In general, we view the training stimulus, the general base of physical activity, even staying generally physically active, even if it's not dedicated exercise training, all of that is more important towards people's musculoskeletal health function longevity compared with dietary protein. In other words, the beneficial effects from exercise, general physical activity, and dedicated training outweigh the benefits of increasing protein. Even if you're consuming insufficient protein, I would rather you train. Yeah, that have more protein. Yes, exactly. You know, of course, for those who care about getting the best results, who are optimizers, yeah, you want to get everything squared away. But I don't think it's appropriate to weigh these things equally. I would put way more emphasis on training as an important variable of interest as it relates to sarcopenia and those types of outcomes. Yeah, 100%. Then she bashes on the RDA. Look, the RDA recommendation of 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per death, you know, it's outdated and they haven't updated it in years and so long. And that's either because there's either no new information or it's not a priority. Boom, roasted to the RDA. Okay, one, nobody's reading these guidelines anyway. And even those who do read them, right, mostly would be like researchers, professionals, public health type people, they're not hitting the guidelines anyway, right? And so just broadly speaking, we can assume that next to nobody is hitting the guidelines. And even when it comes to the protein intake, people eat far more protein on average than 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. It's closer to one. In some cases, just above one. Now, just to be full disclosure, I'm not protecting the RDA or the dietary guidelines. I'm no like, wow, these are so great. Again, my suspicion is they're not super accessible. There's a lot of like hand wavy stuff too long and no one reads them. But the 2020 to 2025 guidelines, they say in there, the US and Canadian dietary reference intake steering committees are currently developing plans to reexamine energy, protein, fat, and carbohydrate. The timeline for these macronutrient reviews has not yet been established. And the 2025 to 2030 guidelines have not been released yet, although the scientific consensus doesn't say anything about updating the protein target. Anyway, I guess, yeah, look, to be charitable to Dr. Lyons, I assume that this is not a priority because the public health folks and the researchers that are on this are like, look, people eat way too much protein anyway compared to, you know, this target if they're above that anyway. And no matter what we recommend, the people aren't going to eat it anyway. So who cares? Yeah, I think you'd probably make a bigger dent in population level health by altering other dietary pattern variables than by cranking up people's protein intake. And we're not here demonizing it to say that it's like terribly risky for the population be consuming that level. But if we could choose, I think to say, we're going to increase the population protein intake by whatever 20% or something like that versus to increase their dietary fiber intake by, you know, from whole food sources by almost any percent. So we're like, we would take that the latter over the former or if we could shift the, you know, sources and types of dietary fats towards a more towards a less saturated profile, for example, I think that that would be another one, although I would still take probably fiber from whole food sources over that in the near term as like my tentative prioritization or hierarchy here. Yeah, yep, agreed. She starts talking about this, these additional tests for how you would measure effectively if somebody's getting enough protein in their diet. So she talks about this one test called the indicator amino acid oxidation test. It's an or caption. This is, yep, it's better than a nitrogen balance study that that most of the original protein recommendations are built off of, but I want to point out two things. Thing one, this is still a mechanism based kind of study. You know, the outcome that you're looking at is like, are do people, are they adding net positive, net negative or, you know, maintenance level of protein intake, but it has nothing to do with hypertrophy, strength gain, cardiovascular improvement. It's not those type of outcomes. It's literally looking at like a day's worth of eating or a single meals worth of eating and then extrapolating from there. There are a few more studies that last a few days, but the second thing I want to point out is she's making this case that people need to eat so much more protein, especially older individuals. And the study that she cites on this indicator amino acid oxidation actually comes up with a range of protein recommendations for older individuals. Do you want to guess what that range is, Dr. Baraki? A lot. Nope. It's basically the RDA. It's 0.85 to 0.96 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day and the RDA is 0.8. And it's like, bro, you went, you're in, you know, in a dark room, presumably at a seminar, you're well lit, you got a microphone spotlight, an attentive audience, and you're hemming and hawing about dietary protein and you're like, yeah, I'm getting them slam dunking this topic. Older folks need to eat more protein. Look at my sources. And the source is like, nah, nah, you're wrong. Super annoying, just super annoying. And like, to me, focusing on protein so much is kind of telling that she's pretty unfamiliar with this topic overall. It's like, if you were truly an expert, you'd be like, look, the average person in the United States, average adult in the United States could probably benefit from like a performance standpoint by having an extra serving of protein per day. But the average person could also benefit from like performing because they're currently not. Yeah, they would benefit far more from exercise. Yeah, far more from starting to exercise. And so like just, God, can you imagine having a whole lecture on just protein? Yeah. Not my favorite, would not be my favorite lecture. And I would leave. I would leave. Particularly if she was the person presenting. So you're not an expert, clearly. Yeah, no hate comms, peace and love. Just maybe stop talking about this because you have a big platform and have responsibility to convey good information. So yeah, I agree. All right. All right, let's get into the first controversy. We're talking about eggs and dietary cholesterol, or as Dr. Tom Capiteli calls them, and is the best New Zealand accent, best Kiwi accent, Eeks. So what's the controversy here? Well, the controversy is that the public and many health professionals are still arguing about whether or not we should limit dietary cholesterol in our diets. And eggs are the scapegoat because that's one of the most common foods that people eat that has dietary cholesterol in them. So why or where did this controversy come from? Well, the hypothesis was that dietary cholesterol directly and dramatically drove blood cholesterol levels up, thereby increasing the risk of heart disease. And this is as far back as 1960s per the guidelines issued by the American Heart Association. It wasn't until the 2015 to 2020 dietary guidelines that an upper limit of dietary cholesterol was removed from the guidelines. And then if you look at the 2020 to 2025 guidelines, they say to keep dietary cholesterol as low as possible. But they reverted back to that. And then the 2025 to 2030 dietary guidelines, well, their scientific consensus doesn't even address dietary cholesterol at all, not even in the scientific consensus at all. So it's clear as mud in the dietary guidelines from a dietary guideline standpoint. And not that anyone reads or follows these guidelines anyway, but eggs seem to get caught in the crossfire due to their cholesterol content. There have been a number of studies with different methodology and different results about whole eggs and whether they're quote good or not, which have been poorly reported by the mainstream media. Now, if you talk about eggs or dietary cholesterol, or the social media, whether it's any other place, controversy abounds, eggs are good or they're bad, or maybe it's just the yolk that's bad. Dietary cholesterol is terrible for you, versus limiting cholesterol may be terrible for you, because many hormones require cholesterol to make. So we're going to get to the bottom of this, try to come up with a consensus here. But Dr. Baraki, when you hear about people saying, look, you can't limit dietary cholesterol because hormones, is it just an eye roll right to the back of your head? Or like, I do my best to, if there is an eye roll, I try to keep it internal and not divisible to the party with whom I'm engaging, is that's a poor way to enact belief change as we have learned from some of our favorite resources here. But it's just similar to the QuackWatch segment, it illustrates that this person is probably not an expert in this area. And they may well be deriving these narratives from certain internet and social media resources and things like that. And it's likely that they're relatively entrenched in their position, although sometimes that's more open to being changed. So in that conversation, I might ask what that's based on or where that comes from, and actually see if the person's open to a conversation on it. But in general, the cholesterol-derived hormones are synthesized by their respective cells, the endocrine organs that make those things. But all the cells of our body can make all the cholesterol they need in order to do these things. And so there is a difference in the different compartments of the body where we can find and measure cholesterol levels. So I think that people have very inaccurate understandings of blood test interpretation. I think that we've talked about that at length before on the podcast. But the blood is just one compartment of the body. Just because you can measure something in the blood, it doesn't tell you the entirety of everything about that substance in the person's body. It can be in the blood, it can be in adipose, it could be in cerebrospinal fluid, it could be in urine, it could be in saliva, it could be, and all of these things are different body fluids or different body compartments where we can measure things. So I can't just do a test in your blood for meningitis, for example, because that's a different compartment. So I have to go into that compartment and sample that fluid and test that if I want to get a sense of it. And so there's cholesterol in the blood, there's cholesterol inside our cells, there's cholesterol in our cell membranes, there's cholesterol, like that one of the biggest pools that nobody even realizes is like red blood cells carrying around, like within the red blood cells and the red blood cell membranes that we don't actually measure when we're measuring blood cholesterol levels, because that's when we're measuring lipoprotein concentrations and what they're carrying in terms of cholesterol mass. So the point here is that that the it's easy to weave a simple sounding narrative to say some hormones come from cholesterol and so you want more cholesterol in your blood so your body can make hormones. And there are so many, you're like not just leaping, you're like triple jumping over biological facts that are very important here to consider when you're trying to come to these kind of conclusions and make recommendations on it. Yeah, you've left earth orbit now and outer space, that's how big of the leap that you've been you've been taking. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so let's come up with a consensus here about dietary cholesterol and you know, by proxy, eggs. So the effect of dietary cholesterol, so it's just cholesterol in the foods that we eat, or we're theoretically things that we drink, on serum or blood cholesterol levels as carried by the lipoprotein, so like LDL, HDL, etc. Well, it's nuanced and it comes down to this other ratio and I look, these are going to be like long words, but I want you guys to follow along here. So there is a ratio called the P to S ratio, polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratio. And this is calculated on the dietary pattern a person habitually eats. Now the target would be 1.0 or better, where it's great or optimal if you're a biohacker, it would be about 2.0 or higher. The typical Western diet is 0.5 or so, sometimes lower, some studies have measured as low as 0.3 in modern times in the United States. So when the ratio is low, that means the person is consuming low amounts of polyunsaturated fats and high amounts of saturated fat. There is a more significant effect of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels. So again, let me restate that. If this ratio is low, you're not consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats, are consuming a high amount of saturated fats, there is a more significant effect of how much dietary cholesterol you eat per day on your blood cholesterol levels as measured by things like LDL, for example. When the ratio is high, lots of polyunsaturated fats, low levels of saturated fat in the diet, this effect is much smaller. It's not to really say that there's no effect, although some studies have shown minimal effects here, but the evidence overall going back long periods of time before you and I were around Dr. Baraki does indicate that basically going from no cholesterol in your diet to higher amounts does impact your blood cholesterol levels, but just maybe not that much, maybe not to a nefarious sort of clinical effect if you're consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats. So overall, this effect is sort of complex. And if I had to like tie this together and I'll get your take on this too, Dr. B, that if somebody's dietary pattern is rich in polyunsaturated fats, so from vegetables, fish, nuts, etc., whatever, and low in saturated fat, I really don't care what their dietary cholesterol levels are unless it seems to me that they're like a hyperabsorber of dietary cholesterol, for example, or there's some other reason that I'd want to limit it. I'm less concerned, right? And so at that point, I'd be like, this is probably where we'd not, where we'd want to focus our efforts. I'd probably focus on dietary fiber, potentially medical management, if somebody's at high risk of heart disease, does that kind of jive with your understanding of this? Yeah, I wanted to add some of the clarifications that have been baked into this discussion so far, because I think that perhaps in our efforts around public messaging on this, I think sometimes the message has gotten maybe a bit potentially oversimplified or has come across in a way to say that there's essentially never any significant impact of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels, and that's actually not entirely accurate. There is a lot of context around it that matters. And then even within that context, I think that there, for most people as it relates to their cardiovascular risk management, there are probably more important or stronger levers for us to be pulling on. And so there actually is, or there would be a clinical situation in which I could envision myself addressing somebody's dietary cholesterol levels, but it is almost never the first or second thing that I'm assessing, right? So I'm much more likely to get a sense of, what's the person's, you know, take a, you know, thorough dietary history and from that try to derive my gestalt about their P to S ratio. Like, are there consuming tons of high saturated fat foods or foods with fats, saturated fats derived from animal sources most commonly, but also some other ones as well, and trying to shift that pattern into an unsaturated direction. That would be a higher priority, because I think that's likely to have a bigger impact on their, on various outcomes, including their blood lipids, but also several other things. And then I'm aggressively trying to work on the dietary fiber piece, as we talked about in the last section as well. So aiming to get people to increase their intake of certain fruits and veg and legumes and, you know, higher fiber whole food sources. And if I've worked on all those things, I have an appropriate energy balance, I have appropriate, you know, physical activity, insulin sensitivity, sleep situation, I'm like attacking all the lifestyle pieces as hard as I can. And I have their dietary patterns set up the way that I think is, you know, reasonable, and they're still running, you know, higher than we'd like on some of their blood panels. Then I might, you know, if there somehow still is a residual dietary source of cholesterol that is like a significant, then I might actually target that. But that's a later on step, because I do know that going from some intake down to minimal, down to zero, for example, does actually have an impact on blood levels. But it's just that that impact is not so large as to justify it as like a leading intervention right off the bat, unless somebody really wants to. And if they do, then fine. If they wanted to, again, if they said, I'm going to go to a zero cholesterol diet, it's like, okay, I mean, I want to make sure that we still are consuming a generally well rounded and varied diet here. But I would not have concerns, for example, of, oh, your hormones are about to tank or something like that, unless you go into like, you know, a massive calorie deficit or something. But then it's not from lowering your dietary cholesterol piece. It's from the overall energy situation, which certainly can have an impact on hormones and things like that. Yeah. So to move on to eggs. So eggs, which do contain the decent amount of dietary cholesterol are just part of a broader dietary pattern, just like any other type of food, which the dietary pattern being more predictive of health than any singular food that somebody may consume. So whole eggs and or egg whites can be part of a healthy dietary pattern. I am, again, not really concerned about the quote, high cholesterol that's in eggs or really anything else. If somebody's P to S ratio is really, really good. Again, it may be a step that you'd want to take to remove those sources of dietary cholesterol, but that's way down the line. And I don't even know that it would be part of like this optimization thing for somebody who's otherwise healthy. It'd be more of like a, look, man, we're really pulling strings here. And honestly, for a person like that, they'd have to be very, very against taking a medication to further optimize the risk, which I think would have a much bigger effect. And we don't get paid anything from pharma for saying this, but it's just like, look, if you're pulling out all these stops in your diet and your lifestyle to try to optimize your risk of not having any sort of major adverse cardiac event, medications probably going to have a bigger bang for your buck than the dietary cholesterol piece. Plus, if you love eggs, I don't know. I'd be like, I'm just saying that your quality of life may be better that way. But if someone doesn't want to take medication, they really want to avoid them for whatever reason. That's fine. I'm happy to honor that and modify the diet accordingly. But that's just a smaller effect. Yeah. And I think one little caveat that this brought to mind when you, since you bring up medications is if it were true that dietary cholesterol had zero impact whatsoever on blood cholesterol levels, then isetomib would not do anything. Isetomib is a drug that inhibits intestinal absorption of cholesterol. So that's one side of the equation. So clearly, there's some relationship there. However, if dietary cholesterol was this massive driver of blood lipid regulation and cardiovascular risk, then isetomib would have a much larger effect than it actually does. So isetomib's effect, broadly speaking, in like, you know, unselected kind of population level studies and things like that, mean it, what the reason I caveat it that way is not like specifically stratifying people by hyperabsorbers or not, for example. Broadly speaking, the effect of isetomib is on the modest size. I still use it often, but I use it in higher risk patients or in those who have like statin intolerance or I want to use like low dose combination therapies, things like that. But looking at it this way, I think helps to kind of clarify the controversy here in that there's some relationship between them, but it is also modest. And then there are some people who seem to be like, you know, these hyperabsorber phenotypes for whom isetomib is likely to have a more potent effect on their blood lipids and potentially subsequent cardiovascular risk, although that kind of assessing that and, you know, that sort of precision prescribing approach is not currently like kind of standard of care, I would say, in practice. If I have, I'm most often starting it in like the highest risk patients, but in recent years started to use it more often in low dose combination therapy with folks. Yeah, you would also predict isetomib to have a smaller effect on an individual has is consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats. Yes, totally. That last few things I wanted to say, dietary cholesterol intake has basically no clinically significant effect on hormones. Nearly every cell in the body can make cholesterol. It's particularly the tissues that make hormones. It's not the rate limiting step in hormone production. Instead, that's like the trophic signals you get to those tissues from like your pituitary gland, other sort of organs. And overall, I would have people focus on the dietary pattern, limit saturated fat from red meat and most processed foods, get most of your dietary fats from fish, nuts, non-butter dairy sources and plant derived oils. And dietary cholesterol is generally a lower concern for most with in this context, this dietary pattern. For each one of these controversial questions, I've put together what I consider to be some of the best resources like links to studies and you can read those. And you're doing your own research, but I'm helping. I'm helping.  get to the right sources. All right. Second controversy, we're talking about kyco. Calories in, calories out, not to be confused. The kyco, who is a freaking stud on the platform, 10 out of 10 would want his bench press. Same. Deadlift and squat now that you mention it, gosh, can I just get as strong as him? All right. So what's the controversy here? Well, there's a very vocal group of individuals that are claiming that weight management is not just about calories in, calories out, that it's energy balance, but instead it's about hormones, food quality, and other factors. If you don't believe me, if you think I'm just making this up to talk about something on a podcast, I'd like to introduce you to Gary Taubes, Dr. Fung, Dr. Tro, a niche of, quote, women's coaches, and the rest. Men don't understand weight loss in women because it's hormones. I assume they're not talking about like hormones at the level of the brain, because in which case I could make maybe an argument there. So why is there this controversy? I think it's mainly because weight management is difficult. Very, very challenging. And even when you look at some of like the observational research on this, it's pretty interesting. So obesity rates are increasing, but self-reported food intake and food availability data suggest that that's decreasing. Amidst self-reported increases in exercise, albeit modest. So for example, adjusted mean energy intake of U.S. adults decreased in the period between 2003 and 2004 compared to 2009 and 2010 by about 100 calories or so. And during the same period of time, obesity rates went up by about 3.5, 4%. And so there are alternate models that have been produced. So this carbohydrate insulin model where people who eat more carbohydrates or insulin levels go up, that causes more fat storage independently of energy intake. That's the sort of idea behind the carbohydrate insulin model, CIM. And there's been other models around like ultraprocess foods that like, okay, these ultraprocess foods are devoid of various micronutrients and other sort of things. And it's not about calories, just because you don't have all these nutrients. And that makes you gain weight. Let's see if we can come to a consensus here. To date, there have been no successful challenges to the energy balance model for long-term weight management outside of a relatively rare condition called lipidema. The short-term changes in weight are mostly related to body water, so fluid, so gaining water weight, losing water weight. And overall, people vastly underestimate their energy intake. And it's generally worse in folks with excess body fat, excess adipose tissue. On average, people underestimate their energy intake by about 30%, but there's a wide range here. And people tend to overestimate their energy expenditure on average. The total amount or relative amount depends on the comparator. So like, how are you assessing like, is this person's estimation correct or accurate or not? But compared to extremely accurate measures of energy expenditure, so doubly labeled water. People have overestimated their energy expenditure by over 100% when recalling their activity level over the previous year. The other part of this is that exercise, because people count exercise obviously as part of their total daily energy expenditure, well, it's not purely additive to your total daily energy expenditure. So for total daily energy expenditure, you have, you know, you basic life-supporting processes, like keep the lights on, that costs energy. There's some amount of energy that's required to digest, metabolize, and otherwise store your food. And there's energy that's required to power yourself to move about your environment. And then exercise on top of that would be, quote, additive, meaning like, oh, well, I walked for an hour or two hours, or did resistance training, people think, well, I burned X amount of calories here, so I just add that on top. That's not exactly accurate, especially in the chronic, like chronic exercises. So people have been doing it for more than six months, and so your body just tends to compensate by using less energy for these other processes. To some degree, it varies amongst individuals. And weight regulation and dietary practices are complex. So people, when they're losing weight or gaining weight, there's some level of what we call metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis. So some people who are, quote, like, resistant to weight gain, well, their metabolism will speed up when they eat more in overfeeding studies or overfeeding situations. Similarly, when people are exposed to an energy deficit, some folks will be resistant to lose weight. Their metabolism will slow down a little bit. And same thing with hunger and satiety. These are very complex processes. The body may defend a certain sort of range of body weights. We'll talk about that more in one of these future controversy questions in this episode. So again, no successful challenges to energy balance. The ultra-processed food thing, yeah, they tend to have more calories and are less filling, thereby increasing energy intake on balance. So it doesn't really challenge the calories and calories out sort of final common pathway. And so, yeah, it still remains as the proximate cause of weight management. It's undefeated. If your energy intake is greater than the amount of calories that you burn, you will gain weight. 100% 10 out of 10 by definition. And if you burn more calories than you consume, you'll lose weight. Unless, again, there's some major fluid shifts that are going on for some other reason. This still encompasses all possible contributions from hormones, processed foods, individual variation, and so on. But in saying all of that, and I think when people really are pushing back against calories and calories out, what they mean, what they truly mean is that, hey, look, this isn't a great sort of strategy for a lot of people to lose weight. They're like, look, calorie counting calories didn't work for me. So calories and calories out, it's BS. Like, no, what you're saying is that that particular intervention is not particularly helpful for a large swath of population. And I agree with that. Crazy those days can be. I agree with that. You can pay professionals, nutritionists, registered dietitians to, you know, quote, track their calories. And they're still off of their, you know, the actual amount of energy that they're taking in. So can you imagine what it's like in the general public? And it just, yeah, I agree that counting calories is probably not a great intervention, but that doesn't mean that energy balance isn't like the rule or the law here. Yeah, it's, I think, easiest said that it is accurate but not useful for a lot of people. And I sometimes think about it in terms of like internal and external validity, which are some science terms relating to when you do an ultra rigorous study under very particular conditions. That might not always translate into what it is like kind of quote unquote in the real world. And so if you lock people up in a metabolic ward study and you control every calorie that enters their mouth and is absorbed and is then metabolized into usable energy by their body. And you are also in control to the extent that you have control over it over their energy expenditure, i.e. for example, their activity and things like that. Then you can have quite confident and rigorous models and predictive methods to assess their body weight changes over time. The model will hold quite well in that sort of a situation. But then as soon as you exit that metabolic ward chamber and you put people out in the real world, it is much more difficult to execute something like that to that level of rigor. And so the, it's not to say that the energy balance situation is no longer accurate, but rather it is not kind of experienced in the same way. And so when you are just when you are kind of reducing the weight management equation down to this for people, it's almost implied that it is the strategy. It's like, oh, it's the final common pathway. So that is the level where you should intervene. And maybe that's not the level where you should intervene and people are finding other kind of levels of this biology where interventions are more productive or more effective, either broadly speaking or for a given person. And so maybe intervening at that final common pathway is actually not the best place. And I think that is reflected in our own thoughts on this where we're like a better place to intervene on this is it like the food environment level, for example, right? If that were feasible, because then that would have this cascade of downstream effects and benefits that ultimately would impact the calorie intake and potentially even the calorie output side of the sides of the equation, but not by intervening all the way at the end where we tell people just be in this like toxic food environment where you don't have to do anything. You know, you can get ultra tasty foods that have little satiating effects with like no activity requirements in life and just like stop eating, right? Which is that's functionally what that's saying is when you're intervening at the end versus whether that type of how available that type of thing is at all is a much stronger determinant of people's likelihood to obtain and consume it. I do think of it in terms of this internal external validity thing. And so the scientists who are thinking in terms of internal validity metabolic ward studies to some extent are talking past the folks who are attacking calories and calories out even the clinicians who you mentioned at the outset who are saying it doesn't work. And it's like, well, it's not a thing that can work or not. It is like the biological fact, but when you say it doesn't work, it suggests that you are viewing this as an intervention with poor external validity when applied to the real world that we all live in. Yeah, yeah, I would just also finally point out that any alternate model and their proposed interventions from that alternate model, whether it's carb reduction for the carbohydrate insulin model, whether it's reduction in ultra process foods from this process food sort of sort of model. They all dovetail into this final common pathway of reducing energy intake compared to energy expenditure when matched for calories in. There's no weight loss advantage from having a from consuming a low carbohydrate diet outside of short term weight, water weight losses. Same thing for ultra process foods or whatever if there was this huge benefit, we tell you about it. Yeah, we'd be the first to tell you, but instead we're just telling you to maybe ignore these folks that advice surrounding calories and calories out because ultimately misinformation. Agree. All right. Next controversy here on the Barbell medicine podcast, we're going to talk about slow metabolism or high fru... What's the controversy here? Well, it's, you know, everybody knows it's harder to lose weight as you age. It's a tale as old as time. And for those with weight struggles, well, they probably have a slower than normal metabolism because that's how they ended up how they are. Right. I mean, just think about it. That's the controversy. Why this controversy exists. Again, I think it goes back to weight management is challenging. And it certainly does feel harder for some of their experience at trying to manage their weight, whatever their goals are. For some individuals, it does feel like a much more monumental and in some cases even insurmountable task. And I think metabolism tends to be the scapegoat for quote, all things that are beyond an individual's control. And I think this is really referring to an individual's genetics, their specific environment, and ultimately the response to the combination of those two things, a person's genetics and their environment. And so people are like, why am I having such a challenging time, you know, leaning out or achieving this particular physique or whatever compared to these other folks? It just must be my metabolism. It's slow. Does that seem reasonable to you as far as like why this controversy? See these conversations all the time, whether just age related or often like in the perimenopausal, postmenopausal world, things like that, just quite common kind of topics of conversation. Yeah. Okay, so let's see if we can come up with a consensus here. Metabolism, as measured by your resting metabolic rate and its combination with your the thermic effect of food. So that's diet induced energy expenditure, how much energy it takes to break down store metabolized food, etc. And your activity related energy expenditure. So all of that stays remarkably consistent as an adult until the middle of your seventh decade. So about 65 or so. For most folks, it's a little bit longer stays pretty, pretty consistent for active. They're really like four distinct stages of quote metabolism where it's pretty much the same. So early, you know, childhood adolescence. That's your second phase adulthood. And then after, you know, 65 or a little bit older, that seems to decline. But the most of your adult life, metabolism metabolic rate is effectively the same. And individuals with excess body fat. So individuals with obesity, they have the same metabolic rate per kilo of body weight. Sometimes it's even higher. Experimental evidence can show that as well, like up to a couple hundred calories per day. And there's no real difference in sort of like as far as weight gain goes and those who could have a high basal metabolic rate versus a lower basal metabolic rate. So there's no real experimental evidence that shows that look people with excess adiposity excess body fat have a slower metabolism than their lean counterparts. So I think what we're seeing here is just a sort of unique. I don't know. It's kind of like a, it's kind of like an experiment that's taking place in real time. But we've changed our environment such that the genetics that are relatively stable are producing a pretty predictable response. Our genetics are not set up for the modern food environment, the modern activity environment where we are less active and where we have access to all of these foods that are very, very tasty, very desirable, easy to access, cheap, high in calories, but not very filling. And our genetics are such that like, what is this? So individuals were exposed to those far more than individuals who aren't based on where they live, based on their socioeconomic status or whatever. Well, the outcome is predictable. They're going to gain body weight up until a certain point and they're going to kind of plateau off. This is probably best modeled by what's called the dual set point theory by Dr. Speekman. Now, this is still kind of speculative, but I do like this model for conceptually understanding what happens with weight regulation in adults in developed societies. That is, there is a low body weight, body fat level that your body defends vigorously against once you start to approach it, because that would increase your risk of dying from disease or otherwise not having enough, quote, fitness. And I don't mean that in like a crossfit type setting or like exercise related setting. I mean fitness in the biological, with the biological meaning like, oh, you can't reproduce because you're going to die, you're infertile, whatever. So vigorously defends against that should you approach that. And you have a upper level of body weight and body fat sort of set point that your body would theoretically defend against should you get up that high. But the problem and that's like for a predatory risk, right, or also reduce levels of fitness where now your fertility has been compromised, but that's so much higher than what society views as like attractive or desirable or whatever. And so we've seen this sort of gradual shift towards the upper end, towards that upper set point, but it's just much higher than most people would prefer. Does that seem plausible to you? It seems very biologically plausible. I think both of us have historically found this proposed model or explanation pretty compelling. I think that just at selection pressures and sort of almost like incentives in a certain way, biological incentives as another term to describe what we'll call selection pressures or lack of selection pressures can have a super potent effect on like gene environment interactions here. Yeah. And I think soon people just blame their metabolism, maybe what they're really talking about. And this is something that is definitely true. Maybe they're not really saying or not really meaning maybe unintentionally that their like basal metabolic rate is slower on average than another person of similar body mass lean body mass activity level, whatever. Maybe they're not saying that. What they're saying is like, look, when I try to change my diet or increase exercise, I don't get the same response that my friend does. And to that I say, yeah, yeah, it'd be like that. And we can call that metabolic adaptation, maybe more technical term adaptive thermogenesis. But yeah, people, you know, changes in body weight produces changes in body mass, you lose some lean body mass, for example, which in turn changes resting energy expenditure. That's somewhat predictable. But amongst individuals who are so quote unquote resistant to weight loss, a number of other changes are going to occur. They're going to have a greater than normal reduction in their basal metabolic rate. They're also going to see a greater than normal reduction in their activity related energy expenditure. That's not just exercise. That's non exercise energy expenditures. They're going to twitch less. They're going to shiver less. They're going to move less. And that's all subconscious, right? Their hunger is going to go up. Their feelings of fullness or satiety are going to go down. And for folks who are very, very resistant to weight loss, it's a tough road. I agree. And I understand that that experience is very, very challenging, you know, defeating and whatever. But that doesn't mean that you have a slow metabolism. All it means is that your genetic lot in life is much more poorly suited for the modern environment than some other folks. And yet if your intervention, if the proposal was, well, let's change the environment, we would say, yeah, let's do it. Yeah. And to the extent that's not feasible, you're living in the best time in history to have tools to manage it, right? It may not be your preferred method if it involves the use of certain meds or surgery or something like that. But we've never before had the level of, you know, potential intervention control over this as we do today at this moment. And tomorrow we'll have even more because a lot of these things are being studied. You know, this conversation around metabolism, there's two examples that I can think of that are really commonly cited. One is what you mentioned where somebody says, you know, I'm not getting the same results as this other person that I know, or I know somebody who can eat a ton of food and they never gain weight. And then I, you know, eat very little and I feel like I either do gain weight or I can't lose weight. There's a couple of variables there. One is just the intrinsic biological variation between these two people that may lead them to have different, you know, results. From these things in the modern food environment. The other is something that we talked about earlier that it's very likely that they are overestimating the amount of calories that that person is consuming in a 24 hour period. For example, maybe they see them eat a large meal, but they don't see the meal that they skipped. Yeah, a different one today. And they're severely underestimating the amount of calories that they consume. This is just what humans do. So there's some, you know, estimation inaccuracies there. There are probably some unaccounted four variables. And then, yeah, there's the biological variation between people. We could, you and I could both sit here and complain that, hey, we could try running Ed Cohn's deadlift program and we did in deadlift 900. You know, come on, man. Sorry, like just try harder. It's not, we're not, you know, the same organism. We have, you know, different, different things that are going for us and different things that are not in our, in our, in our favor here. So there is some biological variation between people, even if they are doing the same thing. You know, we put people on similar programs and we're going to see diverging results. You put people on a similar diet. You're going to see some diverging results for reasons that are both within and outside of their control. The other aspect of the metabolism piece, not just comparing between people between adults, for example, is, well, it was different when I was younger. And, you know, when I was a kid, I didn't have to think about this and I could eat whatever I wanted and things like that. And by and large, I think that a lot of that, there's, there's certainly some, depending on how long ago you were a child, there are likely to have been some changes in the food environment and things like that around and alcohol use and all sorts of other things that can come into the picture across the lifespan. But activity level is a massive, you know, variable that changes, you know, over that period of time. I think about some of my friends, kids these days that I see that are like in the, you know, four or five year old time frame and they're just like constantly throwing their bodies around all over the place doing stuff, playing, you know, just like hyperactive, you know, moving around, arguably. And that's something that, you know, obviously if we saw an adult behaving in that way, we would view it as concerning or culturally maladaptive or something like that. Instead, they're, you know, maybe potentially sitting in the office chairs in a cubicle for a fair amount of the day and, and perhaps not otherwise meeting or exceeding physical activity guidelines and things like that. So that's another variable that changes across the lifespan within a person that might be perceived as a decrease in metabolism. And it's like, kind of, if you look at like maybe total, you know, activity that you're doing or something like that, but not your basal metabolic rates, not the, those types of functions that we can measure that appear to be quite consistent across the time, time span. And your dietary patterns have also shifted from childhood to adulthood. So there's a lot of like explanatory variables that can, you know, get at these experiences that people have and then kind of jump to the conclusion of it's, it's my metabolism that's changed. Yeah, generally speaking from like adolescents, we'll call it, we're in childhood and adolescents to like adulthood, you're no longer growing. So sure metabolic rate per kilo has gone down a little bit because you're no longer growing, especially not the rate that you were. You're likely to be less active. And then again, depending on how much time has passed, let's say if you're in your six decade now, you're in your fifties compared to when you were a child, you know, in the early eighties or seventies, oh, the food environment has changed. Yes. Drastically as far as also like normal dietary practices, for example, more, much more meals are being consumed that are prepared outside of the home portion sizes are bigger, all sorts of stuff. But that doesn't mean that your metabolism is crashed. Yeah, if we, if we transplanted you in your state with your current metabolism into a different food environment, you'd be likely to do fine. If we had control over that food environment, if it was a better food environment, if we could set it up the way we wanted. Yeah. But we could also set it up in a way that's even worse and we could predict the results there too. Yeah. Food industry would love that. All right. Welcome back to the Barberal Medicine Podcast. We're talking about controversies in nutrition. And now we're going to talk about real sugar versus high fructose corn syrup. So what's the controversy here? Well, people believe that quote real sugar is better, more health promoting, etc. than high fructose corn syrup. And this is actually topical because in a post on truth social, President Donald Trump said that Coca Cola has agreed to use real cane sugar in U.S. production of their popular soda, Coke. Why is there controversy? Well, like I've always said, I've been saying this for years, maybe since the start of Barberal Medicine, it's the three C's that people are bad at. That's chemistry, critical thinking and Coke. I've been saying it for forever. People know this. So with chemistry, first we can take sweeteners and put them into two groups, nutritional and non nutritional sweeteners. So nutritional sweeteners have calories contain energy, non nutritional sweeteners do not have calories or energy. So that, you know, non nutritional sweeteners would be things like aspartame, stivia, etc. Whereas nutritional sweeteners, there are basically three types of these. There's a mono saccharide. So there's one type of chemical that would be like fructose and glucose. There's a dye saccharide. So there's two types of chemicals that are bonded together. That's like sucrose, right? This would be glucose and fructose bonded together. And then there's polyols like a sugar alcohol. So we'll focus now on dye saccharides, right? So table sugar, sucrose and high fructose corn syrup. Those are both dye saccharides. So cane sugar or quote, real sugar is sugar derived from sugar cane. That's a tropical grass. It's called cane sugar instead of just sugar to differentiate it from sugar derived from other sources like sugar beats, but they're chemically the same. It's 50% fructose and 50% glucose bonded together. Now you compare that to high fructose corn syrup. This is a blend of yep, you guessed it, fructose and glucose, but just in different proportions compared to cane sugar. So it's either 42% or 55% fructose and the rest of it is glucose. So slightly different as far as proportions, but chemically they are the same. It's fructose and glucose together. So that's the first thing that people are generally bad at chemistry. But there's your chemistry lesson. You can replay that so then you could be an expert in chemistry related to cane sugar versus high fructose corn syrup. Now we'll move on to the second C, critical thinking. People say fructose is bad and by proxy fruit is bad. So some, but not all or even most studies on fructose ingestion alone show that compared to glucose ingestion alone. Well, fructose can increase the creation of fat in the liver. This is called hepatic de novo lipogenesis. It's also less satiated or filling and so on. And these tend to be most problematic in a calorie surplus. Now what those studies don't tell you are two things. One humans by and large do not consume just pure fructose or pure glucose because table sugar is not pure glucose and fruit is not pure fructose. And also de novo lipogenesis. It's a relatively minor pathway for fructose metabolism overall. So to caveat important caveats there for this quote external validity that you talked about earlier. And so then people will say, well, look, high fructose corn syrup is bad because of the excess fructose compared to sucrose. However, the data does not show this. When you look at actual data on humans eating the same amount of calories, but they're getting some of that from high fructose corn syrup versus sucrose. Again, we're talking about things that are chemically the same to slightly different proportions. There is no difference in outcomes with respect to weight gain with respect to lipid levels with respect to fasting blood sugars with respect to blood pressure go on and on down the list. insulin sensitivity, whatever they are the same. And so if you were good at critical thinking, you would say, well, look, I had this hypothesis that because ingesting large amounts of pure fructose, especially in a calorie surplus may be deleterious to human health. And your prediction was, well, because high fructose corn syrup has more fructose in it, that's going to cause unwanted outcome, whether it's weight gain increases in blood pressure increases in atherogenic lipoprotein levels. You would have to then go to the research and say, well, show me the data. Does this actually play out? And then you look at the data and you're like, oh crap, it doesn't. Well, I guess I have to reject my hypothesis or otherwise modify it to fit this information. Yeah, fully agree. It's been frustrating to watch all this play out being touted by the HHS, I think, as a win that they're wanting to switch US Coke from that from, you know, to real quote unquote cane sugar as this kind of naturalistic sort of sort of thing that they're pursuing. I mean, if you look at historically rates of diabetes in Mexico have consistently been higher than rates of diabetes in the US, if you wanted to take a very over simplistic view on this, you're like, well, if this were such a, you know, strong driver of our diabetes rates in the US, well, what about the place where they do sometimes use a bit more of the cane sugar and things like that. So, I wish that we were targeting things similar to our conversation in the first question about prioritizing, for example, things like dietary fat, dietary fiber and the fat composition or diet and things like that, rather than as our friend doctor and it'll ski recently said he used one of my favorite commonly used phrases in medicine, re-arranging deck chairs on the Titanic, meaning it is just doing something that is ultimately going to be futile. And it's coming from a place that is not reflective of good critical thinking because you could have conversations with these folks and say, you know, I've actually sometimes wanted to do something like this to say, based on your hypothesis of the case or based on your understanding, could you describe to me the design of a study that would test this, and they would probably describe a study that probably something like it has been done. And if you showed that to them, and that it's results when in the opposite direction of what they expected, then what happens. And we know what happens in people's brains. This is not I'm not attacking anyone in particular here, but this is just what people do when they're tightly wedded to an idea or a hypothesis or a belief is that they'll immediately start scrutinizing and trying to find reasons to dismiss the evidence that they don't like. And so ultimately, another potentially futile endeavor but one that would be entertaining, nonetheless, I think. And the final see that people are bad at again, I've always said this always, always Coke Coke, people are bad at Coke. Okay, because because this claim is that well, just look at Mexican Coke. And compared it to the Coke that sold Coke, it sold the United States, because Mexican Coke, you know, they use cane sugar and not high fructose corn syrup. And so okay, one in Mexico, yeah, the generally the rates of type two diabetes and metabolic syndrome are higher in the United States. So yeah, alright, that's a problem. Yeah. Yeah, strike strike two people that again, they claim that Mexican Coke tastes better and it's better for you because he's cane sugar. Instead of high fructose corn syrup, but well, that's not true either because Coke and Mexico has used high fructose corn syrup for more than over the last 10 years. Like they've been using it for over a decade. And like, well, but it tastes better. Like, okay, well, it has a little bit more sodium in it and it has more caffeine and more proportionally are sold in bottles that affect the taste. And there's actually like a whole separate scale of like sweetness. I think it's called the bricks scale BRIX and it has to do with like how sweet the thing is and they have to adjust the amount of sweetener in the product based on what vessel it's being sold in. Interesting. And the type of sweetener that they use. I think they also put sucralose in Mexican Coke as well. So anyway, more stuff going on here. But again, like I've always said, historically, people are bad at the three C's, which chemistry, chemistry, critical thinking and Coke. So consensus here. I don't want people to get it twisted and say that we're telling you that high fructose corn syrup is uniquely health promoting. We are certainly not saying that. What we are saying is that it's no worse for you than cane sugar if consumed in the same amounts. And we have no data to suggest that people consume.  and more high fructose corn syrup in a similar food than they would regular sugar. They're both bad, to be clear. Generally speaking, I wouldn't want people to eat a diet that has a lot of added sugar from either of them. I would instead prefer that people consume those same foods with non-nutritive sweeteners if I could make a small change, meaning that they're sweetened with an artificial sweetener or a natural sweetener like stevia or monk fruit, whatever, than having added calories from cane sugar or high fructose corn syrup. But overall, your dietary pattern probably shouldn't be that sweet with respect to either added sugar or non-nutritive sweeteners either. So it's not that high fructose corn syrup, we're recommending it, 10 out of 10, you should consume it. We're like, well, maybe your diet shouldn't have either in them. Yeah, I recall the first time I heard you say that final idea that overall your diet probably shouldn't be super sweet all the time. And I thought that that was a reasonable kind of take home suggestion for people that they might not have thought of in that way. Instead of micromanaging all these things, it's like if you're constantly having sweet things all day, there's probably a problem here that we ought to address. Yeah, broader dietary pattern could be changed. But yeah, we're not saying high fructose corn syrup is uniquely healthy or that you should replace all of your cane sugar with high fructose corn syrup. We're just saying that replacing high fructose corn syrup with cane sugar is going to do nothing. Literally nothing. Literally nothing except for waste a bunch of resources, time, attention, etc. And it's like all we're doing is placating people who probably shouldn't have confident opinions on this thing. And they're like, look at what we're doing. Policy was, yeah, real food, real sugar. It's like, that seems to be a fallacy. Yeah, maybe we shouldn't be asking for that. Yep, agree. All right. Last controversy, we're talking about the anabolic window. This is still a thing people talk about? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So what's the controversy here? Well, nutrient timing is a popular strategy for enhancing training adaptations and performance from the standpoint of muscle strength and size. For example, the concept of a quote post-workout anabolic window has been proposed, whereby a limited time exists after exercise to optimize training adaptations. Some have gone so far as to claim that nutrient timing is even more critical to muscle development as total calories and total macronutrient intake. As far as why this controversy exists, I think that's like a perfect storm. One is there's been this increased recognition that recovery from exercise is important. And there's been a lot of evidence on like sort of what mechanisms are at play. So like, ooh, you exercise and you're depleting your glycogen levels in the muscle, you're breaking down muscle protein. And then if you replace them immediately, theoretically, your body will supercompensate. You'll have store more glycogen, you'll store more protein, add bigger muscles. Athletes at the highest level, there's often like very intensive efforts to right after they're done with the training session. Hey, they got to recover by some sort of, uh, Mexico, whether it's eating, like whole foods or some sort of supplement. There's also a lot of marketing for supplements based around this. Oh, you need post-workout carbs and the specific type of carbs, whether it's a highly branched cyclic dextrin, whether it's pure glucose, you know, whatever, something like that. Um, and this focus on mechanisms like, ooh, this increases muscle protein synthesis or this increases the rate of glycogen replenishment or decreases the rate of muscle protein breakdown. All of those mechanisms are reasonable to investigate and discuss, but we can't, you know, blind ourselves to, well, what are we really looking for? Because I personally, I don't really care about my muscle protein synthesis rate compared to, well, what did my strength do? What did my muscle size do? How did my endurance performance do after this particular intervention? Muscle protein synthesis, muscle protein breakdown, glycogen breakdown, glycogen resynthesis rates, those are all short-term sort of proxies for like what's going on in the body. To tell you like, well, is this person going to gain more muscle mass? Is this person going to gain more muscle size? Is it, or muscle strength? Is there endurance performance going to be supported? But you can actually measure those things too. And so like, measure the proxy if you want, that's fine for generating hypotheses, but then you got to test it later on. The last part here that I think also contributes to the controversy here is generally speaking poor study design, because a lot of the studies that led to this controversy about an, quote, unquote, anabolic window, post-workout anabolic window, tested untrained individuals who were previously fasted going into a session. And it's like, well, yeah, if you're fasted, that's a totally different person than someone who's fed going into a workout. And so the, quote, unquote, effects of post-workout nutrition would be different for somebody who is fasted compared to being fed. And you see the same thing with intra-workout nutrition, where people are like, oh, you got to eat like gummies in the middle of a workout. And it's like, well, maybe if you were fasted, that's different than if you were fed, and that's what the data shows. Mostly unnecessary intra-workout nutrition, unless the sessions are longer than about 90 to 120 minutes. And that's mostly in either really high volume resistance training or a very intensive sort of endurance efforts or even prolonged efforts. Yeah, not an hour and a half or two hour session because your rest periods are 10 to 15 minutes long. Yeah, or you're yapping, you're spitting game. Yeah, which 0 to 10 would not recommend. So let's see if we can come up with a consensus here and wrap this up. Based on existing data, in the fed state, there's little evidence supporting the need to immediately consume a post-workout meal. And most of the time, both being recommended as a combination of protein and carbohydrates in that post-workout window. This is provided that a person otherwise eats the same amount of calories, the same macronutrient intake, et cetera. If fasted, whether overnight or otherwise greater than four to six hours between meals with no snack before a workout, sure, would recommend hustling to get a meal in, but that's mostly because you haven't eaten in a while. A few exceptions here. First exception, if there's a short turnaround before the next training session or competition, so for example, like eight hours, less than eight hours. Yeah, post-workout nutrition, very, very important just because you have a limited amount of time here. But if we're talking about 24 hours or 48 hours between your next exercise session because you work out three days a week, which we're big fans of, this doesn't apply to you. Just go on living your life, yeah. Totally. If you have a very high training volume such that you're spending 20 hours, 30 hours a week exercising, well, because of that, you have a limited amount of time overall in your week to eat. And so at that point, post-workout nutrition becomes far more important just because you have a limited amount of time to take in enough energy to support your existing body weight and subsequent performance. So overall, I would recommend that folks eat somewhere between three to five meals per day, three to five hours apart, and it should produce a situation where an individual is fed for each workout and gets a meal after each workout. It's just the timing of that meal after the workout to me doesn't really matter unless somebody is like, look, I'm going to train again in a few hours or I got another competition in a few hours. If you prefer to train first thing in the morning and you want to be fasted, well, yeah, that post-workout meal is going to become more important, but not because of this quote, post-workout anabolic window. It's mostly because you were fasted before and now it's time to eat. Yeah, I remember getting, I mean, this was 20 years ago at this point, but just getting blasted all the time with ads from like T-Nation for every possible supplement to take like pre-intra, early intralate post, before bed, day off, like they went hard with that kind of stuff. I'll be honest, this is something that I haven't thought about ever in years. I think that there was a time very early on in my training career where, you know, I didn't know anything and I was listening to, you know, the advice that was around at the time, so did try to get something in like probably a lot quicker than I needed to afterwards. But these days, yeah, not something I think about really at all. And, you know, for example, recently with this move and all the effort and work and how crazy those days can be, it's actually worked out best for me to try to get up and go and get some training in first thing in the morning before the day starts. And I get sucked up in projects or whatever else needs to happen around the house. And I've just gotten up and I've gone and I've been fasted and I've done my training, not because I prefer to train that way, but it just is. And I've not given any thought to this concern over my anabolic potential or my window. And that timeframe I just eat when I get back and then go on living my life. And ultimately it's fine. Is there any compromise? I mean, maybe, but it's also a compromise that would only be in the short term anyway. I would rather train fasted than not train or train fasted and maybe actually perform a little better when I'm energized in the in the morning compared to waiting until later in the day when I would otherwise feel bettered and ready to train. But I've been smoked by like working around the house all day or something like that. Right. So there's a lot of trade off to consider and this window is not one of them, at least for me and I don't think it is for you either. Yeah, correct. I think ultimately that I just want to have my three to five meals a day. I eat when I eat. I want to I prefer to have a meal within 90 minutes prior to exercising and then because my if it's 90 minutes before and then my workout session takes 90 minutes. So now I'm at three hours that I got to go home a shower or whatever. It's another hour or so. Well, now it's four hours. But time to eat again. And so that's my post-workout meal. But I'm not like bringing a shaker to the gym, you know, and like I just finished my last set. I leave all the equipment out. I hustle to fill it up with water like I got to get it in now. Yeah. Yeah. Body doesn't work that way, particularly when you were fed going into it for sure. It's my hot take. You ready for a hot take? Sure. I think that generally speaking, people consuming a lot of intro workout food. I think that's that's generally net negative for the vast majority of individuals. And here's why. One, most folks are not training at a high enough level and doing enough training where they have limited opportunities to eat otherwise. That's one thing too. Most people are not training long enough where, yeah, really making sure that you have enough glycogen on board in your muscles to fuel activity is the rate limiting step. Just look if you're training two, three hours at a time, different situation, particularly for fasted, but most people are not. And so there's really no benefit to consuming food in between. But instead, what you're doing is limiting the sort of period between meals where your body is like figuring out how to deal with low energy availability, sugar. You know, you're just all perma fed. And it's the same thing. Constantly post-prandial. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like when people are in the hospital and they're getting, you know, a TPN or something like that around the clock. And you're like, yeah. So in addition to the medical condition for the while you're in the hospital, that's contributing to some insulin resistance and this and the other. But you're also constantly fed. And so it's just like constantly grazing throughout the day versus having discrete meals, which is what you would prefer. And oh, by the way, the majority of foods that people are consuming in the middle of a workout are highly processed, added sugar or whatever that are not very filling. And so to me, that represents a night is for like excess energy intake. And I'm like, you didn't need that. Most of the time, if you need to gain weight and that's the strategy you want to pick, like fine, I guess. But yeah, it's just funny to me. I see people with these huge jugs of, you know, basically liquid sugar, right? Yeah. And they're just consuming it throughout a workout and they're doing like some bodybuilding stuff. And I'm like, yeah, that definitely is not a context where that makes sense to me. I think the ultra endurance stuff, the, you know, super, super high volume aerobic work, things like that where they're sucking down gels on their 90 grand an hour training stuff like that. That's totally fair. I don't see any almost any situation where I'd be doing that in a lifting context, particularly if I'm training to my preference relatively frequently because I could not train that high volume in one session as often as I'd like to train in general. How many people do you think that are having like, you know, they're in a lifting session 5075 gram 100 grams of carbs during the workout from, you know, added sugar or just pure sugar, whatever. How many of those folks do you think are like, I would never have a regular Coke? Yeah, right. And it's like, I mean, you could if you wanted to that would be the time theoretically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In the same way that general dietary patterns probably shouldn't be that sweet. You should probably also not always be fed. There you go. There you go. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the barbell medicine podcast five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial. Just wanted to bring your attention again. If you want to become a barbell medicine plus member, you want to listen to the podcast ad for you want early access to them, you want discounts on our products early access to our products and all for the cost of about a cup of coffee a month and the first month's free head to medicine dot supercast.com. We'd really appreciate your support there. And before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the barbell medicine podcast.