 apionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionionion And to help us figure out why trying to get stronger is making this guy weaker. It's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? All right. My mind is already going. Sometimes we jump right into the case and you record the intro later. So all I have heard is that this is somebody who's training and getting weaker. So my mind is going. I have some differentials. Is overtraining syndrome at the top or the bottom? It has not yet crossed my mind until you just said that thing. So that's what I'm here for. All right. Well, we're going to transport you into clinic. Okay. And this is your next patient. Here's what the referral says is coming from another primary care clinic. It's a 43 year old man. He's got a BMI of 32, a waist circumference of 104 centimeters. He's on medication for high blood pressure. His fasting glucose is high normal, about 115. About a year ago, his previous GP ran a lipid panel and it came back pretty bad. His total cholesterol is 278. His triglycerides were 448. His HDL was 37. So he started on a medication for lipids at that point. Works a physical job in a warehouse and recently decided to start training on top of that. Now, he went back to his previous primary care doctor. They did another lipid panel and his numbers were still elevated. And his doctor wanted to put him on a second medication. And he said, no dice doc. I need to find another doctor. I need to get a second opinion. And he's also here because his strength has been going backwards and nobody can tell him why. And he heard that you're the strongest doctor in Texas. And so he wanted to see you. So I'm going to let you take a history. We're going to flip this a little bit. You could ask me whatever you'd like. And I'm going to tell you what the patient would say. I am not the patient in this particular case. I like it. Okay. So I'm just going to summarize what I hear first. We have a 43-year-old guy. Not a ton of other prior medical history, but appears to have obesity, high blood pressure that is treated with a medicine that you have not told me the name of. He has some impaired fasting glucose and then some what I'll call mixed hyperlipidemia or atherogenic dyslipidemia. Pretty high triglycerides in the 400s and a low HDL cholesterol, which is reflective of his insulin resistance also manifested in that glucose. And that despite doing some form of strength training, his strength has, quote, been going backwards. Do I have that right so far? Nailed it. Okay. The first thing I'm curious about is whether this strength that has been going backwards, is it more generalized or is it localized to a particular part of his body? Yeah. So basically when this patient works out, he's doing it at home with dumbbells. He's doing some circuit stuff that he's found online. And basically he's finding that not only does he get fatigued more quickly when he's trying to lift, but also he's not able to do as many reps and he's had to take the weight down periodically, mainly after a few days of doing this. So effectively he'll start the week out and it'll kind of be back to baseline, but then it'll go down by Tuesday and then Wednesday's worse and then I'll have to take a rest day. And so he's unclear why. He feels like the workouts aren't really that hard, but he's experiencing some premature fatigue that he's just calling a decrease in strength. Got it. Okay. So that's an interesting description. And then the next question is the time course of this. Has this been over the course of a couple days, a couple weeks, a couple months? What's been the timeline there? Well, basically his doctor previously had been trying to get him to exercise. He started doing it at home, especially after the doctor wanted to put him on a second medication, which he begrudgingly started. And so he's been working out for about two weeks now. And this all kind of started at the end of the first week and then now is taking place in the second week. And that's why he's here to see you. Okay. So I'm going to try to summarize what I heard that he did end up starting the second lipid lowering therapy medicine. Is that right? Yes. Okay. So now he's on a blood pressure medicine and two lipid lowering medicines. And then in the two weeks since he has been on the second lipid lowering medicine, he has noticed this kind of progressive strength, sort of delayed onset strength decline in the aftermath of his workouts. Is that right? Yep. Got it. And it does not seem to be localized like to one leg or one arm, but rather it's more generalized across his body. The next couple questions are, does he have any muscle pain? Uh, he says sometimes his legs feel heavy, for example, but muscle pain, eh, he's not sure because he just started working out. So he's like, is this soreness? Is this muscle pain? Unclear. His muscles sometimes ache a little bit, but he did just start working out. Yeah. Yeah. Not so strikingly disproportionate that it has alarmed him as like a primary complaint. Mm-mm. Taking it. Okay. And then he says he feels more quickly fatigued. My sense, based on what you've told me, is that he feels that this is kind of more muscular fatigue in nature. Has he had any shortness of breath, uh, that he has, uh, experienced that feels disproportionate or inappropriate to him? No shortness of breath. Uh, basically again, he just kind of started working out and initially he was real, real sore and it kind of went away. So he figured that was just newbie type stuff, but then he's just not quite as strong the second week that he's been active and he figured he'd be getting better, not worse. Sure. Okay. Uh, all right. So I'm kind of summarizing what I'm thinking right now and where I would like to take this next in terms of my, um, evaluation. So we have this, this guy kind of a prototypical, like early middle-aged with obesity, some features of metabolic syndrome on a blood pressure medicine, recently started on two lipid lowering medicines. I have some guesses as to what those might be in kind of a traditional, um, uh, method of, of treating his, his lab patterns. Who has started exercise, strength training in particular at home with dumbbells and is having, uh, seemingly, uh, kind of some, some premature, we'll call it fatigability, some regression in his strength performance that feels, uh, odd and unexpected, especially for somebody who's just getting started with training. Yep. If you, if you'd like to ask for a medication history, this patient's happy to, happy to tell you. Also, if you wanted like a family history or anything else, he's, uh, willing and able to answer. Yeah. Okay. Well, so I didn't know if you were purposefully withholding some of these things. So yes, I'm, I'm guessing that he's on a statin as one and then potentially an addition of something else, maybe with his triglycerides, something like a fibrate or something like that. But let me know what, what, what did he get put on? Yeah. He was initially started on phenofibrate, 160 milligrams per day, started first for the triglycerides and then a tour of a statin 20, uh, which is a statin about, about a month later for the cholesterol. He's also taking bistolic for his blood pressure, but he doesn't take any supplements. Um, and so, yeah, that's his, the current list of medications. Okay. Gotcha. Um, so no other medicines. Is he using any supplements currently? No supplements. He decides, uh, declines that he's using or denies using any supplements. Okay. Does he, uh, drink alcohol or any other drug use history? No drug use history. He does have about two drinks per week on average, but that's about all usually beer. All right. Uh, and then does he have any other prior medical diagnoses, um, that have not been revealed to me, uh, so far, personal medical history. So besides the high blood pressure and the cholesterol, no other known, uh, medical history. He does have a smoking history, about 25 pack years. And he was also recently prescribed, uh, Chantix, uh, in order to, to quit. Um, took that for about two weeks, but basically stopped it on its own because, uh, didn't feel like it was working. And so he's still, still doing some smoking. Gotcha. Okay. All right. Um, and you, uh, you alluded to the idea that his family history may have some, some relevance here. Uh, and so go for it. What do we got? Uh, he has some obesity in both parents. His father had a heart attack at the age of 68. Um, but otherwise no known, uh, medical history from his, from his parents. Oh, okay. So turns out not so much. Does he have any siblings? Has no siblings. No siblings. Okay. Um, so I'm kind of. I'm going to summarize my, my thoughts, uh, as far as where we are in the case right now. Um, this concern that somebody has of, I'll just characterize it as, I guess you can call it, uh, some exertional fatigue, some, some weakness, uh, type of manifestations. I often like to go back to my basic physiology when laying out differential diagnoses for these cases. And so that's kind of why I was trying to differentiate. Does he have, for example, shortness of breath with activity? Is this more a cardiorespiratory, cardiopulmonary, cardiovascular limitation in his exertional capacity? Um, or is it more muscular force production? Because that takes us down two different paths. We think about like the heart, the blood, the lungs, the oxygen carrying capacity. If somebody is having like premature fatigue from an aerobic standpoint or their conditioning. Uh, whereas I go down the like nerve axis, which we've talked about before for force production from the brain, the spinal cord, the nerves, the muscles, things like that. Um, in this case, I'm not getting so much of a signal for cardiorespiratory, cardiovascular, like a oxygen delivery and utilization, uh, as a limitation, but maybe more so something having to do with force production, um, going on. But the interesting thing is it seems to be, um, both, uh, limitations with his exercise, but he has this kind of progressive nature to it, um, that, that lingers for a few days and almost worsens for a couple of days after his activity. And then very gradually kind of recovers afterwards. Um, there's a, there's some things that can, uh, uh, manifest in this way. There are some issues with the neurological system, you know, going down like neuropathies to the, to the neuromuscular junction, um, things like that. Like myasthenia gravis is characterized by having like fatigability with, with exertion, although still not exactly fitting this pattern. Um, and then other things specific to the muscle itself, um, like myopathies, um, certain muscle specific diseases. Where somebody might have this type of intolerance of force production, uh, exercise. That's also why I asked about pain because muscular pain in that context can, in some situations, help to differentiate something that's a bit more localized to the muscle. Like a myopathy or myositis, things like that versus a more neurological issue that would tend to not have as much, um, muscular pain, uh, sort of associated with it. The reason I'm currently slightly leaning towards a muscle specific issue is definitely in the context of the, the, the, the timing of this in the context of recently starting several of these medications. Um, the way that his medicines were started, I would say is not, uh, correct. Um, he was started initially on phenofibrate, which is, I can understand why somebody might think to do that first. If they were very alarmed by the triglyceride level of 448. However, the correct management, even in that situation, in addition to standard kind of lifestyle, uh, uh, modifications, dietary modifications would be, um, uh, typically first line in that situation would be a statin over a fibrate, um, in general. And then the, the fibrate would be, uh, definitely next subsequent line of therapy, not, not ideally the, the first line. There are some statin fibrate combinations that can, uh, interact and can increase the risk of, uh, myopathy to a greater extent. Fortunately, the combination that he's on is not one of those very high risk, uh, combinations, uh, but it's still possible, um, for this sort of thing to, to arise in this situation. And then lastly, statins by themselves can contribute to, uh, muscular issues and in very, very, very rare cases can lead to more substantial, um, autoimmune inflammatory myositis and myopathies and things like that that are still in the very back of my mind, but are things that I've seen a handful of times, um, over the years. So some of my next steps here, if I were seeing this person face-to-face would be to essentially do an exam, do a standard kind of cardiorespiratory, cardiopulmonary exam, and then strength testing, um, things like that to see, make, to confirm that what I'm seeing on exam is matching what he's telling me. I'm not finding something more localizing, something that's very disproportionate or that doesn't fit with his history, seeing if it is all kind of concordant. And from there, potentially looking into some laboratory testing, not only basic lab testing, but also looking at like, uh, markers of muscular injury, like CK elevation, things like that, that would be disproportionate with his degree of like recent muscular, you know, activity and exercise and things like that before taking things further. All right. Well, I'm going to give you some more information. You know, we've got a full history now. And before I give you some new labs that you would likely order on your own, I'll give you the physical exam. It's mostly unremarkable, pretty benign physical exam outside of the musculoskeletal exam. His strength was normal. Reflexes were normal. All sorts of signs point to goodness, save for, it's pretty sore when you, when you touch him, particularly in his, uh, biceps, for example, and his quadriceps, uh, when you press on them, he does have some tenderness there. It does appear to be slightly swollen. Um, you know, nothing too out of the ordinary, but, uh, a little, a little tenderness to palpation, both, both of those areas. So before we go any further though, I did want to pose you two questions. You kind of gave us your summary of this patient, but the next question is, you know, since he says he's been sore since starting exercise, how do you think about sorting out like normal new exerciser soreness from something else? Yeah, I think it's, um, there's not a simple answer to this. It's kind of, uh, uh, taking, taking a history on the person's prior level of fitness and level of adaptation and trying to distinguish, like, what's the degree of, uh, inflection, uh, that happened here? And what would I expect? Part of this requires some degree of insight yourself. Like it helps if you're the, if you're the doctor who's like taking this history, if you also exercise and you have some insight into like, what's a normal level of soreness to expect from, from this type of activity. But you're telling me this is not a guy who has just been like living on the couch for years and then suddenly started, you know, going to the gym and doing a lot of like eccentric heavy strength training where it's like, yeah, you may well be like cripplingly sore for, for a little bit. It sounds like he's a very active person with his, uh, with his line of work. And so it's not to say that, you know, there's no, there's not going to be any soreness when he picks up activity, but if he's used to like loading and unloading 18 wheelers and then you start doing like a light home dumbbell program, I wouldn't expect such soreness that it's going to like bring you into a primary care clinic with that being your primary complaint. Unless I hear you say like, oh, I did this program that had me do like a hundred set, a hundred reps of goblet squats or something like that. So it's a matter of like the dosage of training, the type of training compared with your baseline level of fitness that I can try to gather from your habitual level of activity and prior training history and things like that. And so that's kind of why it feels disproportionate in this individual. He is, you know, reasonably physically active, um, not completely deconditioned and his home, uh, exercise program. We didn't get all of the details of exactly like sets and reps and exercises that he's doing, but I suspect it's not just like absolute massive training volume that he started. Doing kind of, kind of all at once. Is that fair to say? So that's how I would go about it. Yeah. What do you think? Yeah, no, it's pretty good. And I think before we go further with some of the laboratory data, this particular patient, he's a 43 year old guy, BMI over 30. He's got some high triglycerides. His blood pressure is elevated and needs to be on medication and a cholesterol panel. That's alarming enough that his doctor put him on two drugs for it. He smokes, he drinks a little bit. Uh, he works a very physical job. And after getting some bad lab results, he did exactly what every doctor would want him to do. He starts exercising. That's not a rare situation. Well, maybe the exercise part, but the patient here describes a huge chunk of the adult population in the United States and globally. Metabolic syndrome alone, which is basically the cluster of things that this guy has affects about one in three American adults. So not exactly a rare case. Now, Austin, from a clinical standpoint, when you see a patient like this walk in, what's on your radar? What's the thing you're most worried about long-term? And what does the medication strategy actually look like for someone with this many overlapping risk factors? Yeah. Yeah. So we're seeing a lot of concerning findings like red flags of complications of obesity, of likely visceral fat accumulation, things that are putting him at increased risk of downstream health complications. All of the most common things. He probably has a degree of fatty liver disease. He has the high blood sugar, the high blood pressure, the high blood cholesterol, the high triglycerides. He is a setup for future cardiovascular risk downstream. If things were not addressed sooner, he is very likely to progress to having type 2 diabetes. And then that also opens up all of those complications, complications of not only cardiovascular, but also affecting the eyes and the nerves and the kidneys and everything else that diabetes can impact. It can be immunocompromising, increasing the risk of various infections, et cetera. So we have a lot of things that we can potentially prevent by intervening at this point. And so as far as the strategy goes, I'll say that there are two general paradigms that you could apply in this situation. One is going to be the traditional quote-unquote paradigm of approaching this where we would treat his blood pressure. We would treat his blood sugar. We would treat his blood cholesterol, for example. So he could be on a blood pressure medicine. He could be on metformin for his, you know, maybe prediabetes if he's approaching the diabetes diagnosis. He can go on lipid-lowering therapy, things like that, as well as ideally, if you're lucky, get some counseling for the lifestyle-related changes. Maybe if you're even luckier, have access to getting referred to, you know, a registered dietitian or something like that. I would say that the more kind of modern, the big brain paradigm that should preferably be applied these days would be attacking the problem at its source. And the source here is the adiposity, likely the excess abdominal body fat, the fat that is likely infiltrating this individual's liver if we can attack that. And the way to most potently go about doing that is going to be through a combination of the lifestyle interventions, which we're happy to go over. We've been talking about this for a better part of a decade or more at this point, but we can certainly do that again, as well as medical therapy, medical intervention on top of the lifestyle things up front. Just because, look, I'm trying to prevent all these complications and help you live longer, and I'm, like, less biased in terms of how exactly we go about it compared with what you'll hear a lot of folks talking about on the internet, where it has to be lifestyle or nothing. And so maybe this person should be initiated on something like an anti-obesity medication, like a GLP-1 receptor agonist, like terzepatide, for example. And then the other kind of escalatory line of therapy, which, absent any intervention, is not the first thing that I'm going to jump to, but rather thinking about, is this person somebody who may be a candidate for consideration of metabolic bariatric surgery? Again, not something that is, like, on day one that I meet this person, going to be immediately making happen, but is in the back of my mind as, yeah, it's an option. He actually would, you know, he may well meet criteria for eligibility for that sort of thing. And so this is the more modern paradigm because instead of kind of trying to cut the individual heads off the hydra of your blood pressure and your blood sugar and your blood cholesterol and treating the complications, treating the quote-unquote root cause, which is the smart way to go about this, addressing the obesity itself through lifestyle medications, potentially surgery, is the way to fix all of those other things. And so that would be my approach here. And so that may involve starting a GLP-1 receptor agonist. It may still also involve starting some lipid-lowering therapy. As I said, I would not be initiating a fibrate in this situation. I do not tend to use fibrates very often at all. It's pretty uncommon that I end up prescribing them to patients outside of very extreme situations. But most of the time, it's going to be a relatively potent statin for some of these individuals. And then other interventions, there are a lot of really potent lifestyle strategies to manage triglyceride levels, as well as prescription fish oil, omega-3 derivatives, and things like that, that can also be useful in that situation that I might look at for somebody like this as well. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, that's what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, the whole point of treating this guy aggressively is that his cardiac risk is real, and not just his cardiovascular risk, but also the risk to his kidneys, the risk to his liver, this, you know, CKM sort of situation. And so rather than just doing one thing at a time, seeing how the person responds, we want to get all of these variables, quote, optimized as quickly as possible, because effectively the risk from these things is worse over time the longer you let them kind of persist. And the exercise piece is supposed to help with all of it. We know that. And he's doing it. He's taking his medications. He's open to quitting smoking. He's getting off the couch, which is what makes the next part of this case so important, because something in that picture, maybe that combination of doing all the right things, actually goes sideways. And the question is whether anyone catches it in time and whether this guy ends up trusting the medical system enough to keep using it going forward.