 orgeouskojjkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkojkoj I think we're slowly getting closer and closer to my ranking. We're only about 10 standard deviations above where it probably should be at this point. Well, the thing is a lot of people are leaving, you know, health care and the NIH due to, you know, what's going on. So, like, if you just hang around long enough, I suspect you'll get to that podium position that you've always wanted. Life is about falling upwards. That's right. Fail upwards. So we won't actually spend too much time with the happy talk. I really want to get into the meat of this podcast. And so, again, I did recently suffer a hip injury. And if I had not maybe experienced this before, I probably would have reached out and we would have done this for real. But, yeah, I don't have to pretend to give Dr. Miles my symptoms or what's going on. So this is more of, again, an example of, hey, you've got hip pain that you've been dealing with. What do? So I'll turn this over to you. I'll let you kind of start how you normally would and we'll go from there. Well, typically, if someone signs up, we have a history that they would fill out. But you and I have communicated. But as always, I would like to hear your version of the story and what happened. So let's start there. Yeah. To save the listenership and then also your brain from hearing my entire life story, I'll give you the shortened version. I had been dealing with some on and off hip pain for probably the last six months or so. The reason why I didn't do anything about it is because it was never persistent enough or bothersome enough to really warrant some direct management, in my opinion. So I could just either work through it, meaning I didn't have to take weight off the bar and have to adjust program and just kind of like, OK, tolerated it and it would not be there the next time. So I'm like, I don't really need to do anything about it. In any case, two weeks out from a powerlifting meet, I was doing one of my last heavy squat sessions. And as I descended into the bottom with my last warmup, which was at 550 pounds, I felt a sharp pain in my proximal thigh. So upper thigh that is similar to something I have experienced before. And I lost a lot of strength and stability in my left side. I was able to stand up with the weight, which was good. So I didn't have a wreck with the bar or anything like that, but basically shut down the workout from there due to pain and some concern because it didn't it didn't really feel awesome afterwards. I could still walk fine or whatever, and I could still bear weight and nothing was really changed there. I just had issues squatting below parallel. So I shut down the workout three days later, tried to deadlift and anything over about 50 percent of my one rep max felt like my leg was being ripped off of my body. So I withdrew from the powerlifting meet and started a hip rehab plan that I kind of just generated from a previous sort of injury. Only other thing of note is I did have an ultrasound performed on my adductor. This is on my left side just to see if the tendon if there's any evidence of like a tendon rupture or something like that. And the tendon does appear to be intact. Yeah. So that is that is my the the summarized history that of what I experienced. Well, and from just a working through it on my end, you know, with this type of injury, you felt a pop and I'm familiar with yours. So I know that this is also a prior injury as well. And unfortunately, one of the best predictors of suffering and adductor injury is a previous adductor injury. So that would be very high on the clinical suspicion out of the gate. But to your point as well, typically we think of it as being more muscular injury. But in the powerlifting community, being the larger individuals with thicker tendons, we've certainly seen some of those tendon ruptures. So I don't think it was the worst idea in this instance to go get ultrasound to confirm that it wasn't the tendon itself. But really, if we get into the approach for it, if it is an adductor muscle injury or strain in the colloquial term, like a lot of how we would end up managing this would be by seeing where symptoms are at titrating accordingly and some isolated type movements. So the one in the literature you'll hear quite often referred to or referred for use is the Copenhagen adductor exercise. Odds are for you, depending on where symptoms are, that might be a little bit on the lighter side of things for a entry point, but it's typically worth testing it out. But the big principles for any type of strain is you want to build back the muscle that has been injured. Yeah, typically. Let me interject here just for a second because I think actually for our listenership, again, it's almost unfair because you're like, hey, you had the same thing before and it smells like, looks like, walks like, maybe this thing. But, you know, what's interesting to me is that I've had symptoms of like, quote, we'll just call it hip pain for like six months off and on prior to this, just not serious enough to make an issue. Like, do we call that like an adductor tendinopathy? Do we call that just, you know, hip pain, non-otherwise specified? And maybe the bigger point here is, does the diagnosis really matter? I mean, obviously, you know, I don't want to jump ahead, but the diagnosis in some cases would matter. But, you know, when you're doing these consults and with someone like me, how important is it for you to arrive at a diagnosis that's pretty specific? Well, typically it comes down much more to would this affect the treatment plan? And if it were a tendon resection or like retraction with the injury, then yes, that could end up needing to be referred to an ortho consult. If we look at it strictly from like clinical suspicion of things with the groin pain, it would be leading up to it. What's funny is without the history, something like athletic pubalgia or like a sports hernia or whatever the diagnosis du jour for the name of that is right now would be higher on the radar. However, given the past history that I do know in this instance, but I also would always ask, like, have you ever strained your adductor before? Because that's going to heighten that up. And with the symptoms you had been experiencing, there's a phenomenon quite often in strains and in most of our research is related to hamstrings, where by definition, if we have had a muscle injury, we've torn some of the muscle. And that strength deficit does tend to persist for a little while afterwards. Your sport is predicated upon maximal force output. So if we end up getting it back to in the literature, like what we want to strive for for sprinting a lot of times is like greater than 90% side to side. But if you're going to be at maximal force output, then if you think about it just as a thought experiment, if you're at 90% on one side and 100% on the other, and we're trying to move 100% of weight, we're still up above threshold. So I don't know that from if you try to make me label it, I would hook on an adductor tendinopathy because it probably wasn't the tendon itself. It probably is more the residual effects of the prior injury that hasn't quite built back up and above. Now, from a strictly like treatment or however we're going to approach it standpoint, it doesn't change much out of that. And quite often there's two components here. One is our ability to measure it and really get a number on what it is. And part of the issue, if you're at a traditional physical therapist and they're just like pushing or pulling your leg apart to test your adductor strength, that doesn't tell us much. Like you're never going to be able to perceive 60% versus 70% versus 80%. So you can do it with a lot of us use an isometric dynamometer and we'll test strength there. And it basically is pulling as hard as you can into the motion of your adductor and testing side to side. You can do it with some other methods as well. Often with, let's face it, the average remote consult doesn't have a 10 deck just laying around. So if we have a seated adductor machine or a standing adductor machine, there are ways that we can test it there. Now, obviously we lose some of the precision out of it, but how I'll often do it is find a weight where you can get 10 reps at RPE 9 on your uninvolved side. And then take that same weight on the involved side to one rep and reserve. And so if you get 10 reps on your right and seven reps on your left, I'm comfortable giving that as an approximation of where it needs to be. And we can use that as our baseline and then obviously start building back up to where we know we're getting closer to 90 and closer to 100%. You know what's interesting about the mention of the adductor machine? I don't use those. Just like, you know, in my normal day-to-day training of myself, I just – I find – I found them of little utility, mainly because it's difficult to load them heavy enough for me to get anywhere close to failure at a rep range that makes sense to me. The stack only would go up to like 140 pounds or whatever it is. And at the previous point in my life, I – yeah, that was not an issue for however many reps you want me to do. Now when I get on that machine, mostly for like therapeutic ranging of the leg, you know, 60 pounds is pretty sensitive on my left side. Like just even the initial like if it's the first rep of the day, like initially trying to get the machine to close, pretty sensitive on the left side, the side that I've experienced in symptoms, right side, nothing. And then, yeah, same thing to your point earlier about the Copenhagen adductor plank. Straight leg adductor right now with the height of 12, 12, 16 inches, something like that. No go on the left side with the leg straight. With my knee like flexed at 90 degrees and the knee being the anchor point, so shortening that moment arm, it's tolerable, particularly the eccentric. But like the concentric of like getting back up to the – to that plank position is pretty sensitive. So, yeah. But in a normal world, you know, I could do as many of them as I wanted to and whatever, yeah. When this gets a lot of what we talk about, like finding the entry point. So, right now, if you could get 140 pounds on your uninvolved side and 60, like the test doesn't matter yet because we're not even meeting the definition. So, how we'll often do it is on day one right through kind of the Copenhagen progression and with a short lever arm, with a long lever arm and building into it to find what is tolerated. Now, that's not to say that we necessarily still need to use that exercise as a we're trying to build back strength because if you look at the principles across the strain literature, it's the Copenhagen adductor, the Nordic hamstring curl. But it really is you want a large range of motion with a decent eccentric component to it. And you can get that a lot of different ways. And most – I mean, probably if I were to guess, 30% of gyms have a seated adductor machine anyway. And to your point, most powerlifting gyms do not. So, we can use something like a lateral lunge or, you know, there you lose some of the, like, targeting specifically of the adductor because other things are going to pick up, but we're still adhering to the principle. And if I had the choice between underloading a seated adductor machine and making a lateral lunge heavy enough to where we're actually operating under a progressive overload principle, then I'm going to take the latter. But it really comes down to – in our remote consults, quite often the first workout or two, we're really trying to establish what our baseline is. And it's going to build from there. So, like, for an individual with a home gym and not a lot of equipment, we may need to rely on some adductors or Copenhagen's a little bit more or a barbell lateral lunge. And somebody who has access to more equipment, then that's going to change the paradigm. And that really gets at, like, a lot of – as much as we're trying to figure out the diagnosis and prognosis, part of it is also understanding the tools and implements that the specific athlete has to really be able to work within those constraints. Yeah. For better or for worse, I pretty much have every toy at my disposal. So, the gym is well outfitted. I also have a K-Box, you know, the eccentric flywheel stuff. I've got the Vultra, you know, if I want to do that sort of stuff at home that's, you know, some – it's like a – I guess what would you call that? It's not band resistance. It's, you know, a cable but electronically, like, controlled or something like that? Yeah, it is an electronically controlled cable that you can set up for different outputs. And in that instance, since we basically have one of the top-tier ways of doing it, I wouldn't probably have you start working some standing hip adduction. But the beauty of that machine is you can set it to where your concentric weight and eccentric weight are very different. So, to your example with the seated hip adduction, we might start with, like, 30 pounds concentric, 50 pounds eccentric and start pulling through it that way because it's going to make it more tolerable. But we're able to operate much more under the principle of, like, getting some of that progressive overload without eliciting symptoms. Yeah. I never thought about that. Yeah, so far I've tried to go to the gym. I mean, I've gone to the gym, my normal schedule, just trying to figure out stuff, like exercises to do. And so, you know, I assume this is kind of what would be like in your normal consult. You know, what have you tried so far and what do you have access to? So now that you know that I have access to the world, pretty much everything, stuff that I've tried that I can do. RDLs are no problem. Stiff-legged deadlifts, no problem. I haven't tried regular deadlifts, mostly because I'm afraid that I would just overload it if left to my own devices. I'm not a dumb man, but I am a creature of habit. And it just – I see bar on ground with plates and I'm like, you know what would be nice? More plates. It just gets sucked into my own habits. And really, this brings up a very good point from what we do a lot of times. I obviously know you and your training and your biases. So if we were going to start pulling from the ground, I would have a laughably low weight cap in place and starting to work up our exposures from there. The other part with a strain, especially for my more elite power lifters like yourself, is you guys know how to use intent really well. And the things that will aggravate a strain are heavy and fast. So initially, we might not go at a higher weight or like trying to pull with the same intent you would for a competition-style deadlift. We might slow it down and use not necessarily a tempo but a more controlled pull out of it to try and keep from that initial really hard impulse off the ground. Yeah, that was my thought with the using – I've mostly been doing RDLs and stiff-legged deadlifts for my like hinge-type movements, at least ones using a barbell, mainly because I do those normally with a controlled tempo. Not like intentionally slow per se but just less like I need to get this weight off the floor as hard and as fast as possible, which is laughably slow at 700 pounds for a regular deadlift. But that's the intent as you allude to. So, yeah, other stuff I've tried to do – I have not tried to put a barbell on my back to squat. Again, it just seems like a little PTSD mixed with like – there are probably other ways to train the squat pattern right now that I don't have like numbers attached to and I don't really have this kinesophobia around right now. But bodyweight squat is fine. I say that because it doesn't feel awesome below parallel, but it's tolerable. Front squat, because I can only front squat laughably light weights due to the front rack position being challenging, is fine. It's better with tempo because the weight's lighter. Because anything like reasonably challenging below parallel is ouchy on the left adductor. That tempo also takes that intent away. So, it works to our advantage from that perspective. Yeah. But this might be an instance where it'd be like, hey, it's time to see if we can narrow up the stance a little bit and take some of the adductor out of play. Or knowing that you have all equipment, we might break out some Hatfield squats and start getting into a little bit more of that from an implementation. A lot of times it is, to your point, like what lift do you not have a number in your head anchored to that we can play with a little bit more while we're trying to build this back up? Yeah. I'm able to do the belt squat, even with a wide stance that was fine below parallel, which is kind of like a Hatfield adjacent type squat because you get to support your upper body. Leg press didn't feel awesome without a slow tempo. Even with a really narrow stance, it just seemed like I had, you know, when I had to push hard, I'm just going to externally rotate a little bit and get my adductors to come in to play a little bit more. But if I have a slow tempo, it doesn't matter the stance width, wide, narrow, whatever, it's all fine on the leg press. And the same thing for the pendulum squat. Only thing that I couldn't really find a tempo or foot position or movement style for a squat pattern that really worked was a hack squat for whatever reason. It's just no good. But let's see. I can do step ups. They're a little uncomfortable, but mostly load related. Like body weight only is tolerable. Adding weight makes it more challenging. And then I can do like split squats and stuff. Again, I didn't try to load them too heavy, but like I was like, oh, I can tolerate this. So all that to me is like fairly optimistic just as far as like, okay, what are your current deficits and movement restrictions? It's mostly like I can't really lift heavy right now, at least in the movements that I typically would do, which is annoying. But yeah, I guess I should be optimistic about my prospects here. Yeah, I mean, you'll get back to it. But I think with muscle injuries in particular, the higher acuity it is tends to be really good for establishing this baseline because you really get to learn what's going to work better for you. Where a lot of the issues come is when symptoms start to subside and we start getting back into it. Because if you think about it for building back muscle, like just if we say it drops to 70%, you're not going to gain 15% strength over the course of three weeks. However, there is a little bit of a disconnect quite often because symptoms will often improve dramatically over the course of that same three weeks. So as much as we talk about pain doesn't equal harm, I would say in this specific instance, the conversation has to come back that feeling good doesn't equal okay. Yeah. Yeah, fair enough. All right. That's duly noted. In the issue where if you look at the literature, we have a pretty high rate of restraining during the rehab process. And I would really attribute that to people starting to feel better and they're like, oh, I'm back. Let's go. And not taking a little bit more of a time constraint in there. And this is where being able to measure some things comes in really handy because then it's much more of a math problem than it is a complete just going off of subjective feeling good. And that's not to say because if we're going, there is no one-to-one calculation. It's not like if your adductor is at 85%, we're fine using 85% of estimated runner at max as our cap and backing off of there. We probably still need to be a little bit more conservative than that, but it does give us more room to play with taking things back up. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay. So for a guy like me, an individual just like me with my history, where – like what would be the – we've kind of done this consult thing like, hey, what happened? What makes it worse? What makes it better? What have you tried? What haven't you tried? What do you have access to? Where would you start? Like, you know, does somebody leave the consultation with like, hey, man, for your lower body work this first week, here's what I would do, and then we follow back up? Or how does that go? And for what would you recommend for a guy like me? So we use an app that lets us program and get feedback and progress everything accordingly. We can look at videos and do all of that. Day one, I would have anchor or will anchor our conversation to working through first that Copenhagen progression and seeing where things land. We would be doing some specific adapter work, especially since you have access to an adapter machine, but more looking to see how it feels. So I don't want to push anything with intent. I want every rep slow and controlled. We're probably going to live a little bit more in the bodybuilding type rep schemes of a little bit higher reps and trying to go a little bit closer proximity to failure. But everything slow and controlled related to it anchored hard to I don't want any big increase in symptoms. So you're trying to save me from myself. Yes. Okay. Fair enough. Well, if you think about it, a lot of our job on the rehab team is kind of acting as a governor. And it comes down to where do we need to throttle up and where do we need to throttle back? Makes sense. And so the bigger issue, if things are overly conservative and with an injury like this, is you can get it feeling good. But in the same time, you're becoming detrained while feeling good, which tends to make the bad decision tree much more of a straight line. Whereas if while we're working through this, we can work around it at the same time and continue to get some quadricep work, hamstring work, glute work where we can get it. Then we're much more set up to start using all that as compounds when it's time to start introducing it. And a lot of times for an injury like this, one day one, we would also fill out like knee extensions and hamstring curls and breaking it down to its component parts. Because if we have those, then a lot of times how we can structure the program is starting to use some of those movements as more the drivers and using our deadlifts and squats more as an exposure to see how things are feeling. So it may be, you know, how we would normally structure our program, our A and B slots, our first two exercises, we're coming in and getting some adductor specific work and then coming behind it with knee extensions. And then we're going to pull a bar out, but we may, for you, knowing what you squat, it may be like 185 pounds for the cat for the day. And all that really is contingent upon once again, like if it's a strain, I always want to know what your working weights have been recently. That way I can ballpark it out because I don't think it necessarily day one needs to start out with just an empty bar working back up in most instances. Now, if severity or acuity is high, then that changes. But it really is coming down to what the person can tolerate and finding and working within that window. Yeah, I like the idea of caps, especially, you know, again, I don't want to sound make it sound like I'm some sort of like brute gorilla. You know, my brain just, you know, is disconnected from my from my body. Like I have a good idea of what I should be doing, but it's it is difficult to get away from your habits. Right. So the idea of like going to the gym and doing maybe some we'll call it prehab work, which whatever, it's just a label, you know, but whether it's Copenhagen exercises or seated adductor or, you know, caustic squats at some point or lateral step, whatever it is. Right. Starting there. That is not foreign to me. You know, I've had issues over my career. So that that's not offensive where it gets offensive, as you're saying after that. Oh, we're going to do some leg extensions and some maybe some leg curls. And then and only then, if you've been a good boy, can you can you touch a barbell? And I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa. You had me in the first half. I was on board. But that is that is. Yeah. I mean, even now, like the last session that I did, I started out with some seated adductor stuff just to like, you know, try to get a pump in my adductors, basically. And then I went to do some stiff legged deadlifts. Now, I did, you know, some lateral step ups afterwards and some leg curls. But I went right to the barbell because I want to. Right. I have no weight cap. I just knew I'm like, well, 405 isn't heavy because it's because it's not. Yeah. But at the same time, like you make a good point. I'm like, is this actually like helping me get any better or or is it more just like exposing me to a greater risk of either re-injury or like, you know, prolonged issue here? Probably not being very helpful to myself. Well, I would say the issue is, especially for those of us who have a good understanding of training. And I mean this even for a lot of the people listening to this. I think almost always, myself included, the more you know about training, the more you're like, I can skip that step. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And part of the reason that I will often use more than the extensions hamstring curls is if you catch a decent quad pump before you go grab a bar, you're not quite as incentivized to go through that extra 45 on and see what happens. So some of it is getting some of the quad specific work or however we want to label it. But some of it is also trying to titrate away from saying like, let's find where the upper bound is today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to be anywhere near that really in this phase because that's not the point. Yeah. And then once things start calming down, then part of the issue is I'm sure you're very aware right now is also feeling like you had a sufficient workout. Yeah. It feels so weird not squatting. Like, like, I'm like, what, what is life? And of the three, to be clear, of the squat, bench press, and deadlift, the squat is my least favorite. Like, just to be clear. But not squatting? Oh, God. I don't know how people, I don't know how people go to the gym and just like, maybe never squat. I'm like, have you tried, like, I feel like a, like a, a Latter-day Saints person going door to door. Like, let me tell you about our Lord and Savior squat. Low bar, yeah. Well, but to that point, like, that, that is part of the rehab process of like, how much do we give the exposure there? Because I, I also want the athlete to feel like they are getting a sufficient workout. Because if not, the likelihood of going and doing something we probably shouldn't be doing yet goes up much higher. And this is where, you know, it's the whole joke about, you know, there are 23 other letters in the alphabet than SBD. And being able to, like, choose other exercises accordingly. And I think sometimes it's even getting past that stigma as a power lifter of like, well, everything has to mimic squat bench deadlift. And especially during the injury phase, sometimes it's like, we're going to do this exercise that in any other circumstance would not be in your program. But it's giving us at least some stimulus that's keeping you active, making you feel like you're working right now. And who knows, you might learn a new trick out of it and find out you like it. Like, I'm sure to your point, Jordan, there are plenty of people that if you went door to door, they're like, I've never squatted before. And I never want to do it because the Instagram says that something is going to happen. And if they did it, they might be like, oh, I like sitting down and standing up with weight on my back. And who knows, you might find that you want to be the world's best kettlebell windmiller. And it's not that any of the exercises are good or bad. It's just like we're just moving weight. So yeah, yeah, it is. Just again, I for people listening to this, I can commiserate and identify with what's going on when you're injured and you want to do certain things like we could talk about. But I have a lot of empathy for for wanting to be able to do stuff and maybe defaulting to doing that stuff over and over again, even if you you shouldn't. I can I get it. I do. But yeah, so no squats in my current program. No deadlifts from the floor, like regular deadlifts from the floor. Your suggestion would be then to diversify not only my exercise order such that maybe the isolation stuff and maybe non squat and or deadlift related stuff comes before that. But also further expand maybe what I'm doing as far as like the variety. So I'm doing leg extensions. I've got lying leg curls in there. I've got some step ups and like I've been doing some some belt squat type stuff. What else would you put in there? How would you outline if I'm going to train lower body twice a week? How would you how would you kind of do this for two separate sessions? What I had been doing is one like kind of squat focused session where the deadlift stuff was accessory. And so I basically just moved all the exercises to stuff I could do. And then the same thing. I'd have a deadlift kind of priority day where squat was the assistance. And I just have been just swapping out movements that I know I could do for now. Well, I think in this instance, things like split squats or, you know, you're already doing box step ups. If if I really wanted you to hate me, I would make you do a rear foot elevated split squats. Like a heels elevated wall squat is a great way of biasing someone's quad. And you're definitely not going to get much adductor called in there. I think the stiff legged deadlifts are great as a posterior chain exercise. We might break out the good old single leg deadlift at some point and see how we go from there. And it a lot of it comes down to it. And during the consult, I tend to or I try and ask the question of like, what exercises do you absolutely despise? And what ones are typically part of your accessories? Because then I can get a feel a little bit more for the style that the person likes to train in and titrate accordingly. Because let's face it, if I give you something you absolutely hate and less, it's absolutely necessary. And I've conveyed it to it to you, you're probably going to find a way to work around doing that. Yep, that's true. Can confirm. But to what you were saying earlier, I would say to the listeners, like, there's a reason why when we all get hurt, we reach out to each other. Because as much as we all know about it, like, we need to have those caps put in place and have those governors from somebody other than ourselves. Because quite often it is, we're our own worst enemy when it comes to programming for ourselves through an injury. Yeah, yeah, not only having like a, like a, some accountability as far as like what you're doing, but also taking the pressure off you from planning, which is difficult too. Because the more you know, the more you're like, well, should I do this? Or should I do that? And when it comes time to make a decision, yeah, you'd prefer not to perseverate over that for, you know, hours and hours on end and be paralyzed by all that, the potential of what you could and what you should do. So it's nice to have some, another professional weigh in on that and the accountability. And also maybe you have a, your toolbox is different than my toolbox as far as like exercises go. So it's useful, useful from that standpoint. All right. So at the end of this console, you've given me a couple days of programming. You know, I assume, and what you kind of spoke to earlier is the first, maybe two sessions, like for lower body stuff for me in this particular setting would be more exploratory. So you're going through the Copenhagen progression, for example, find that entry point, write it down, take a note, you know, it's in the app. Then you have, you know, that same thing for maybe like a squat progression. You're like, Hey, can you do a wall sit? Can you do a wall sit with your heels elevated? Can you do a goblet squat or whatever? Right. And you're like, you're trying to find what can somebody do. Does that sound about right for the first couple of sessions? Yeah. And once again, severity and acuity play in there. I can tell you the last time I started someone with a wall squat, because I feel like most of the time we can skip that step along the way. But from there, it really is progressing into starting to establish where our caps are going to be for tolerance. And if we capture at 185 week one, and it's coming back, and I know what you squat, I would likely give you at least 20 pounds the next week and see where we go and start slowly working our way up from there. And the goal, especially for a strain is over the course of six to eight weeks to start getting back to where we hit that inflection point from it being cap related to at least RPE six, seven related and building from there. And you're probably going to see some higher rep schemes out of that, because once again, I don't want that maximum intent behind every rep. And most of us are a little bit better at grading that down at a higher volume. And then as we start establishing, we've got the capacity strengths returning with whatever metric we're checking it. Then we start moving squats and deadlifts more into that likely second slot, because we're still going to be focused a little bit more on the adductors. But all of our ancillary things are going to move towards the end of the program a little bit more to, once again, as much check the box to make you feel like you worked out as anything else. And then even as we start progressing into like top sets, probably the first time I give that is going to be like a set of four, because I don't want to absolutely send anything the first time around. Yeah. I mean, that would be a change of pace for me. Um, how much, how much stretching are people doing here? Like, look, man, should I be like working on my split or like what, what's going on? Well, I mean, if you're sinking into a lateral lunge enough, you're getting a stretch at the bottom. But as far as static stressing and the way you're asking the question, none, um, like it tends to fall in there. There's no real evidence that it expedites any healing. That being said, if it feels good and you want to do it, knock yourself out. I'm all for that, but it's typically not something that ever really gets programmed in because really, if we're looking at a lateral lunge or even a seated hip adduction, or even with the Voltra standing hip adduction, like we're looking to get to the point where there is a stretch towards end range at the bottom of it, because we're trying to take it over a larger range of motion. Okay. So I don't need to actually do, you know, sit there and stretch before and after my workout because, you know, my adductor is tight. That's why I had an injury. So. That is correct. Okay. All right. Hey, saving me time. I'd rather get a pump anyway, then have to sit there and stretch with the plebs. You know, it's just, I, I see that, you know, I, I do see a lot of people doing stretching, obviously in the gym. That's very common. And, uh, I, I don't care, like do whatever you want to do. Right. It provided you have time to do everything else. But I, that's where I, I, I come back to. I'm like, do people, would they be better served spending that? Maybe let's call it 20 minutes per session. If they stretch 10 minutes before and 10 minutes after how many extra sets could they have done? Or how much extra conditioning could they have done? Or how much traffic would they have beat if they just, you know, left it, left the gym 20 minutes earlier. Right. To me, all of those things are better than stretching. But if you did all of that, you did all the sets, you did all the conditioning, you beat traffic or whatever, and you still have 20 extra minutes and you want to stretch like, Hey, knock yourself out. I don't know that it's helping. And I don't think it's likely to hurt unless you get overzealous with it. I just think it's mostly like, like time, you know, you're occupying time more than anything else, more than doing anything. Yeah. I would agree with that for the most part. But I also think to this principle of it needs to be, especially for a strain through a big range or the biggest tolerable range of motion and sufficiently heavy for progressive overload for what we need at that time. A lot of times, if you look at even how stretching is done and even how a lot of lifting is done in the gym, we would probably be better served by putting a little bit more weight and focus into our effort and our range of motion there than we would grabbing a strap and going and laying on the ground and doing something. Totally. Totally. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. I think when I've personally had people with injuries, sometimes I have actually programmed stretching mainly because it's like a, like a desensitization sort of movement. Absolutely. But I don't really, I'm not really seeking, I guess, the end point that most people are stretching for, which is quote, you know, increased flexibility or increased range of motion. I'm not really looking for that. I think getting the person into the position, the posture that is, you know, of the stretch, that's what I'm looking for because that's the desensitization sort of mechanism, right? Like I'm really just trying to move this person in a static way in this particular case to try to get them to feel a little bit more confident about what's coming next. Right. So like doing the pigeon pose, I'm not really worried about stretching your sort of, you know, external rotators of the hip. I just want you to like move into that position such that when I have you hinge for your next movement, that you're maybe a little more tolerant of that, which is probably mostly related to getting a little warmed up, proving yourself like, hey, I can actually, you know, move in different ways. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm okay. Rather than like, ah, my quadratus lumborum is now, you know, 10% lengthened or something like that. So, yeah. And I, yes, to everything you've just said, um, but to kind of pull it back to like, who are we programmed for you? I don't think I know I would never put stretching in your program. Once again, I know you, um, I might do it on April 1st, just to see if you picked it up, but that would be about it. Um, but once we start getting symptoms under control, we're starting to load and we're starting to get more towards like effort-based again. The, the other step really in muscle injury, strain rehab is starting to put some intent back behind it and actually getting comfortable going fast. Now, once again, we've said in these instances, it's absolute load and speed are the two things that tend to get you. So how I will typically do that is we may still take our top set to get the exposure to a little bit higher intensity, but instead of the traditional, you know, 10 to 20% back off, we'll take closer to 50% back off or 60% back off because I want the weight for the movement laughably light. When we start putting intent back behind it, that way we're not taking speed and overall weight up at the same time. Or like we might do something like, uh, if somebody has a wall that we can do some medicine balls, throwing them against, like starting to explode off, like laterally doing that with a eight or 10 pound ball, because once again, eight or 10 pounds, especially for somebody strong as yourself is going to be really hard to get the sufficient load to do anything bad with it. Well, I'll certainly endeavor to find a way. You know what though, but this kind of like to this exact point, that's part of the way you start getting that intent back is if, if I make it light enough to where I know the odds of you harming yourself are very low, but all of a sudden you're like, man, I can almost throw this through the wall. Then having that intent becomes a lot less scary. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Yeah. It's also therapeutic, like proving to myself that I can do it and then also doing it in a stepwise fashion. Makes sense to me. Um, okay. So after this, maybe initial consults, you would have done this in over about an hour. We, we kind of sped up the process here. Uh, what is the next step? Are people, you know, are you traditionally having people follow up in a week? Is this like a one-off consult? Like how do you make that, uh, that decision about what, when follow-up should be? Yeah. So individuals can sign up for a one-off consult and then we try and lay out the plan for where we would expect it to be over the next six, 12, however long we deem the process to be. Obviously then it's not as granular. If you are signing up for the coaching side of it, we check in. It's pretty rare that I'm more than 48 hours behind after a workout on getting back to an athlete. In fact, 24 is more of the standard, but I have a six week old, so life happens sometimes. Um, but then we're titrating accordingly. At, we check in at a minimum once a week to, uh, progress programs to see where we need to change things. If something is a little bit earlier, like in the stages you and I are talking about, this is probably going to be somewhere during, at least after one or two workouts where we're deciding what we need to titrate along the way. And progressing accordingly. So you will have the plan and the good part about it, especially versus traditional PT, traditional PT one to two days a week. Like if you're used to training four days a week, we're comfortable programming four days a week. If you're used to training five days a week, I'll write a five day split and we can check the box to keep you as active as you can. Because once again, the thing that I don't want to do is get this feeling better and then have you go back to a exponentially higher volume and intensity and then be right back where we started. Yeah. Yeah. That, that transition period is very, is very difficult. Um, not only cause people are feeling better and, you know, uh, more tempted, I guess by the fruit of future gains, but it's also like, okay, well, there's a gap. There's a mismatch between or rehab programming looks like quote unquote, you know, re you know, traditional rehab programming, uh, as far as what we do and maybe like sports performance programming. And so bridging those two is important to make sure that, you know, somebody doesn't just come right back, you know, and say, man, I was unable to get, you know, do my normal workouts. Like, well, yeah, we needed a, a, a bridge to, to, uh, to shore up that gap. Yeah. And, uh, I, I don't know that I, I don't know that I would look at it as like bridging is like trying to pull the two Canyon walls together. So the, the, the big thing we want to avoid in pretty much any pro and like, this isn't even unique to rehab is typically big inflection points. And so if we're not titrating up the volume and intensity to match where, where you were barring what you were doing, wasn't an asinine idea out of the gate, then we're likely falling short of getting you back to where you need to be. Now, sometimes, you know, if there are some programs that are like, we're going to take singles four days a week, I'm, I'm not going to try and match that. And then it becomes more of a conversation about like, Hey, there's probably some better ways of programming towards this goal. Yeah. Yeah. Most people, uh, especially that I've dealt with coming in, uh, through barbell medicine and, and through, you know, just talk at, talk with other lifters and such, they'll have an injury or some sort of acute discomfort. Right. Like they'll back off, uh, in some cases, not doing any sort of direct work or work on it at all for a couple of weeks and I'll feel better, you know? So, well, yeah, you're, you're not really, you're certainly not training it, but you're also not, you know, irritating it. Um, and so it's detrained yet also feeling better at the same time. And they're like, well, if I'm not symptomatic, that must mean I can just go back to what I was doing. Right. And I think it works. That particular approach works just enough time for people to keep doing it. It's like, you know, if you, if to, to use a modern dating analogy, if, if you send enough DMS, you're going to get a bite. It's like, this thing probably works maybe one out of 20 times. I just, I'm making that number up. Right. But because it worked once people are like, I'll just, I'll just do that and take, take my luck. And I'm like, yeah, but it doesn't work most of the time. And people get stuck in this wheel of like, I have an injury. I take some time off. I go immediately back. I get injured again. And I just keep doing this sort of thing. That's not, we're trying to do better than that. We're trying to say, oh, you had an injury. We take the dedicated steps, the necessary approach such that you're ready to return to training. Assuming your previous training was intelligent. And then you don't need us for a long period of time, if ever, you know, I mean, unfortunately injuries happen. It, you know, whether you're active or not. So it's highly unlikely you're going to just go the rest of your life without an injury. But if I, if I have to deal with an injury every few months, I'm like, something's wrong with my programming and my return to that programming potentially as well. But I see that way too often. Well, and a lot of times, like I'll explain it to athletes, kind of like a sine wave and, you know, your peaks and valleys out of it. And like, well, if there's no positive slope to that sine wave, we're not making any progress. So we, we still may have some ebbs and flows along the way, but as long as we're trending positive, we're heading in the right direction. If, however, every time we're right back where we started, then we definitely need to make some changes to break that habit. Yep. Yep. I agree. All right. So this particular case, you probably have the person, like a one-off consultation is probably inappropriate, provided that the person was able to continue on. So you'd probably at least want to see them or work with them one-on-one for, you know, I'm guessing a month or two months. I mean, obviously longer is better in this particular case. So that way you can kind of check all those boxes that you're talking about. So not only making sure that the exercises are being progressed, also ensuring the person's not over or under doing it, and then being able to sort of transition back towards normal training. So that's probably a longer process than just a single console for sure. And, you know, a single month for sure. When people sign up, are you making that recommendation for them after the initial consult? Like, Hey, here's what I think you need. And then, you know, that's my recommendation. I will typically lay it out as this is what I think would be the best case scenario, but it's, you know, ultimately up to you and to the athlete. If they choose just to do the one time, I will try and provide as much information as I can. However, once again, like it's one time and I get no feedback really beyond that versus with individual coaching, we're touching base multiple times a week. And I know the evolution of symptoms and where things need to go. Yeah. Okay. Well, where can people find more people? I know, obviously, people can go to our website and like search through that and submit a questionnaire. Should people do that? Or you want them to email somewhere? Or like, how's what's the best way to reach out to the pain and rehab team? Through the website, you can sign up for a consultation. Obviously, if you want to reach out, I'm Derek at barbellmedicine.com, D-E-R-E-K, since there's 9,000 spellings of my name. Or if you want to reach out to Cam Clauser or Charlie Dixon or other rehab specialists, I'm sure they would be happy to assist. And all three of us are more than comfortable taking care of these types of issues. Cool. All right. Well, that is a that has been a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. It's not a faux mystery case. It's a real case experienced by yours truly. And I'm actually helpful. It's thankful rather this is going to change kind of what I've personally been doing just because I'm a dumb meathead. And if left to my own devices, I'll just make some not so great decisions sometimes because I'm human, just like just like you. So, okay. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you the latest nuance and health and fitness. Again, if you want to check out or connect with our pain and rehab team, I've linked that in the show notes below. Hope everyone has a good week and we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Bye.