 visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits diagram rather than what actually plays out in humans in the real world. Today, I'm joined by Dr. Lauren Colenzo-Semple and Dr. Austin Baraki. We'll also get Dr. Lorraine Baraki to weigh in and Dr. Spencer Nadolsky to weigh in as well on part two of this podcast. But in part one today, we're tackling three major topics. The idea that you need to, quote, sync your training to your menstrual cycle, the very confusing claims made around conditioning, zone two cardio, and resistance training, and we're going to talk about anemia. Let's get into it. First up, let's talk about cycle syncing. The claim here is that because hormones like estrogen and progesterone fluctuate, you need to fundamentally change how you train week to week, how you organize your training, et cetera, in order to optimize performance and to avoid harm. Here's a clip from the episode explaining the logic. Should women exercise differently across the menstrual cycle? Dr. So this is the nuance. And this is something if you'd asked me maybe five years ago, I would have said, sure, from a molecular level, we see that there are certain things that happen with estrogen being in isolation for the most part. And then when you have estrogen and progesterone, we see their metabolic shifts, we see their temperature shifts. But the caveat is we don't know if a woman ovulates or not. And I'm sure that Natalie can give some stats about the anovulatory incidences in most women. If we were to understand and know when a woman ovulates, in addition to how she feels across her cycle, then she can individually tailor her menstrual cycle to her training. But for general plan, we can't do that. If you have your own data and you know which days you feel really fantastic, that's where you want to put your higher intensity, your heavier lifting, because you know that you're going to hit those training metrics. What we don't want is for someone to go in to do a high intensity session on days they feel flat, because then they won't hit the metrics that they need to, to get the stimulus we're after. Five to seven days before ovulation. Some women feel really great around ovulation. Some have a transient where they'll feel really awful on and around ovulation and maybe 24 hours later, they feel really fantastic. Most women are variable through the early luteal phase. So if we think about day six to 14, that's when we see women feel really robust and strong and feel like they can take on the world. Their immune system is more prone to taking on virus and bacteria. It's not pro-inflammatory. So you have them working for you. Your core temperature is lower. You can access carbohydrate a lot easier. So you have more availability for fueling to hit high intensities. Then when we see with ovulation, like I said, some women feel really fantastic right around the time of ovulation because of the estrogen surge. Can you just, for our listenership, just again, redefine what cycle syncing is and look, what does the actual evidence say about this? The idea is that some hormone profile would somehow optimize your performance or your adaptations to exercise and therefore a different hormone profile would be worse. So we're trying to capitalize on this hormone state in order to increase our performance or improve our adaptations to exercise. So it sounds cool, right? If we could do that, then that would be exciting. That would be of interest, especially if you're able to time your sport performance or competition in that optimal window, I suppose. It's a bit complicated, but sure. And when we had that conversation on the Nadolskis podcast, Stacey did say, when I was promoting this, I was relying really heavily on mechanistic data. And since then, we have more human subject data. And I was glad that she acknowledged that because it's still been something really heavily promoted by influencers on the internet, despite the fact that we're seeing the hypothesis doesn't really play out when we measure performance or when we adjust the training or when we look at the actual hormone profiles from one woman to the next or from one cycle to the next, even in the same person. So I was encouraged by her seemingly changing her mind and acknowledging the recent data. And now it seems like she's still promoting it. She's still saying you can tailor your nutrition and your training according to your menstrual cycle, but only if you ovulate. And so the issue is not that, oh, this was an overly mechanistic explanation for something that doesn't actually pan out in humans. Instead, it's, well, the reason that it's not panning out in a lot of humans is because there's actually something wrong with them. So if we think about the hypothesis, which is throughout the menstrual cycle, your hormones are fluctuating, they're changing, and therefore that's going to influence how we adapt or how well we perform. That means we need to consistently assess, oh, this is the good, quote unquote, hormone profile. This is the one that we want to capitalize on. And we don't have any data to actually support that hypothesis that if there's something anabolic about estradiol to the extent that we will perform better, or if you bias your volume to, you know, higher intensity or higher volume training, when estradiol levels are higher, that somehow your muscle growth will be larger. Like we don't, we don't have that connection. So it's an interesting hypothesis that we don't see panning out. Now, when we think about the hormone profile of a person with an anovulatory cycle, then you might have slightly lower estradiol levels in some cases. In some cases, the estradiol still peaks, right? So it depends. But what we would, in the literature, how we would define an anovulatory cycle is actually by assessing the extent to which progesterone peaks in the luteal phase. So we're either looking at a progesterone or the, I mean, the best way that it would be to look at an ultrasound. So if, if the progesterone is the bad or hormone profile, if we, if the, the, the issue with the luteal phase is that progesterone is high and that is somehow catabolic. Somehow catabolic or yeah. Then if you have an anovulatory cycle and the peak is lower, then isn't it by that logic actually better to have an anovulatory cycle? Like, I mean, the whole, everything is just falling apart and making no sense. Yeah. It only makes sense if you don't think about it. One thing that strikes me, you know, so there's this like acute hormone hypothesis for post-workout, like, oh, if your testosterone is higher, cortisol is lower, even though it's not, you know, growth hormone, all of these things, you got to optimize the post-workout hormonal milieu. Shout out to Walter Cannon. It's like that, but on the front end, it's like, you got to optimize your, optimize your pre-workout hormonal milieu, you know, and which ultimately in both cases to me seems quite reductionist, like, oh, it's this particular hormone profile and it's got to optimize. But in, you know, the grand scheme of things, the biggest lever, the biggest impact, the biggest driver of your adaptations is your training load. You know, you can, if you want to really reduce it down to something, it's mechanotransduction. You're loading the muscles, you're making them do stuff. And that is a hammer compared to, you know, these hormonal variances that are kind of like, you know, to me relatively, you know, they don't matter. They don't matter that much. And at least, at least based on the current evidence. Now, if there was some plausibility of truth here, we would see it playing out and you wouldn't have to torture the data for it to pan out. You would see like, oh, this is pretty reliable and robust finding. We kind of keep hammering on this and find some mechanisms, you know, but instead Dr. Sims is kind of doing a reverse. He's like, well, here's a mechanism. And despite evidence to the contrary, that this does not appear to be a robust, reliable finding, I'm going to explain that away with another mechanism that I also don't have to support. Does that, is that square with your understanding of kind of where she's at right now? Yeah, because we somehow come away with a pretty simple recommendation, at least in how to execute, right? It's a clear, you should do this, that that's the take home message, or you should not do that, whatever the claim is. But when we actually look at the levels of complexity that we would have to understand in order to say confidently that this is going to be better or that this is really necessary, or even that pulling this lever or adjusting this one thing is going to have such a dramatic effect on the outcome we care about, that we can say, yeah, you know, I'm pointing to this one thing. And that's why even when we look at mechanistic research in general, typically, in order to identify that the mechanism is even involved, you have to do a lot of non-human physiology type adjustments by deleting a gene or overexpressing a gene or creating this model that is by design, this overly simplistic, so that you can say, oh, yeah, this thing is involved. Now, this is why it often doesn't actually translate to human physiology, because human systems are so dynamic and interactive, such that when one thing changes, 10 other things are going to end up changing. So it's so dangerous to just say, well, you know, because theoretically, this might be involved in that, therefore, assume that it's all going to play out predictably in humans. Yeah. And further with the recommendations to train differently, right? Like one of her biggest things, at least that I could ascertain from what she said was that you're not going to have enough energy or you're not going to feel strong enough or be strong enough to execute a particular workout, to hit your metrics, I think was the exact phrase that she used. And I was like, that kind of hints that your training recommendation is only train if you feel awesome. And if you're going to like PR or otherwise, like hit a particular absolute load. But that, again, is inconsistent with not only the human experience, but also just like exercise physiology. It's like a pretty wide range of things that will work, right? As long as it's hard enough and you do enough of it. And so, you know, these concepts of external training load, internal training load is, you know, what you experience from the things that you actually do and exercise. So that's why we auto-regulate, you know, it's like, look, on a day that you feel awesome, great, send it, you know, but you're still going to be capped by RPE or reps and reserve or some, something like that. And on days that you're not feeling it, you know, yes, some weight's going to come off the bar, you're going to do a little bit less, but again, the training stress that you experience is going to be relatively similar. You just, you know, you're adjusting the workout to meet you where you're at. And I guess this idea, like, yeah, only exercise when you feel like you have a bunch of energy and you're going to PR, like, then you just never, you just like never exercise. Like you just. Well, and we're, we're assuming that how you feel is a direct attribution to your hormones, right? So it's reducing you completely to your hormone profile, which frankly, I, you know, I know that everyone is somehow seeming like that this is empowering to women. How is it empowering for, I mean, for decades, we were like pregnant women were told that they shouldn't even move because, you know, your uterus is going to fall out and. Will actually fall out. Yeah. You know, women weren't, weren't allowed to, to exercise like girls weren't allowed to exercise in school because it was, they were afraid that exercise was going to somehow, you know, harm their reproductive function. And then when I was growing up, we would get as, as girls and women, we would get really irritated if you said something or, you know, you're in a bad mood or you got angry about something. And then the, the boys or the men around us would say, oh, you know, you must be on your period. So, no, I'm, I'm allowed to feel a certain way or behave a certain way that has nothing to do with my menstrual cycle. So we've now somehow flipped the script where, what is like kind of clear examples of just, I mean, misogyny slash reducing like this one element of physiology, but it's, but it's women doing it to other women. And women, women crime. Yeah. So I just, I don't get why everyone is, is on board with this when you realize, you know what, there are so many reasons why I might not feel like going to the gym today that have absolutely nothing to do with where I am in my menstrual cycle. Yeah. Not to mention the fact that this doesn't even apply if your, if your hormone profile isn't reflective of this textbook diagram, which it could be if you're on a hormonal contraceptive, which many, many women are, or if you are pregnant or if you are peri or post menopause. And so then what are those people supposed to do? Does it not matter? Like, yeah, yeah, no, it's very, it's, it's an interesting, again, interesting hypothesis and particularly in the, in the face of existing evidence, which you'd expect somebody who is a self-proclaimed, proclaimed expert in this to be aware. So the question becomes, if she is aware yet continues to hold this opinion, it seems a little, a little fraudulent on some level, or is it ignorance and that not really aware of the data. So I'm just going to get, you know, the ostrich thing, bury the head in the sand. Maybe we'll, that's, that's for our, maybe our third podcast weighing in on either fraudulent versus ignorance, but I do want to get, we have to do two ratings. I just came up with this. So this is a little on the fly. So on, there's a one to five BS scale. Okay. So we're going to do two ratings for each one of these, each one of these claims. One, how much BS is it? So one to five. So I'm giving this five bowls on the BS scale. Do you agree? Do you agree with that? I agree. Yeah. It just not supported by human evidence. We have existing human evidence showing this is not the case that you do not need to sync your training with your cycle. There's no advantages to it to date, and it has been investigated. So five bowls on the BS scale. Now harm scale, again, we're still going to use the five, one through five and still use bowls. I'm giving this a three on the harm scale, mainly because like, look, if, if this somehow empowers people to exercise or they feel they do experience some, you know, interesting symptoms reliably around their cycle, and they wanted some way to like codify their workouts and that, that improves adherence. Great. I think the biggest harms here have to do with people, you know, effectively reducing themselves down to hormones, perhaps seeking hormone testing, going down that route, you know? Uh, so I think there's maybe some potential harm there. Mostly this is just going to leave people in my, to my mind, uh, under trained, um, because of the training, the, uh, implication of how you would, uh, modify your training. Uh, what do you think on the, on the harm scale? Yeah, I think that the end result is you train less frequently or you adjust your training so dramatically throughout the cycle that we miss that key of consistency. And without consistent training, we don't, we don't get adaptation. And so we, we need, uh, I don't, is it harmful to have an auto regulatory component of your program? Of course not. If you, and if you do consistently experience menstrual symptoms for a day or two or even longer, then I think it's absolutely fine to adjust or skip a workout, but that is a very different message than saying we need to, on the front end, plan all these different training phases, you know, to theoretically align with some hormone profile. So yeah, I I'll say it's total BS, but, but it's a, it's a three on the harm. Yeah. I think, uh, that's a great point you made that I think with respect to training modifications, they should generally be done reactively because we don't know, you don't know until, you know, when you're in the middle of the workout, right. Or like you, you turn up, uh, but doing it prophylactically makes a lot of assumptions. And there are so many other variables, uh, with respect to performance and how you're going to feel and even how you feel and how that's going to impact your performance. So I think I like that reactive sort of, uh, and if I tell you plan on feeling terrible. Oh yeah. It's no CBO me right. Yeah. So that there there's harm in that too. If the, if the coaches are using this. Yep. Totally. Maybe 3.5 bulls on the, on the harm scale. Then next, we move on to conditioning. Now this part of the episode was a bit of a head scratcher for me because I heard claims that high intensity interval training is the only way to go for women, specifically sprint interval training. And that moderate intensity training is essentially useless or even detrimental. And then zone two is bro science. According to Dr. Sims, let's take a listen. So am I right in thinking the solution if I'm perimenopausal is to do high intensity interval training for short periods of time? So we look at the quality of the training, not the volume of the training. So if we're in our reproductive years, then yes, you can do the moderate intensity stuff because you have estrogen and some of our other hormone feedback signals that are going to drop cortisol. It's going to allow your body to recover and repair. And when you, what makes quality training? What is quality training? So this is your polar. So you have a very specific session that you're going to do. So for Vonda, it's your 30 seconds on as hard as possible, two to three minutes recovery, do that four times, that's your session. So if we're talking about heart rate and the way that your body works, we have zone one, which is just sitting around, you know, like you're, yeah, we're in zone one. Zone two is the bro science kind of thing where you're like, let's, let's work in this zone two area where we're working. I was in zone two when you're talking about menstrual cycle. Okay, there you go. That's it. A little elevated. Your heart rate's elevated. You still a little bit have a conversation. For women, it's good for recovery, stress release. For men, it's good to improve metabolic flexibility. When we're looking at zone three, four, that's the area you want to stay out of, unless you're specifically training for something that requires you to be there. So that would be your half marathons, your endurance races, that kind of stuff. Everyone wants to stay out of zone. Three, four. Let's start with the Sims claim again, Dr. Stacey Sims, one of my favorites regarding, she went really hard in on a sprint intensity training, extolling its benefits along with polarized training. But then she also says that you shouldn't do it all the time. Like, it was kind of weird. Like I imagine her writing a chapter in the beginning of the set, you should do, you know, sprints. And then at the end, but don't do sprints very often because it's hard on recovery. And it's like, I mean, two things can be true, but I'm like, it's interesting. So let's start with this polarized versus pyramidal training organization. So this pyramidal or pyramidal training organization, you got a low, large base of low intensity work, right? Like 65% of it. And then a significant amount of moderate intensity work, about 25% of your training load would be moderate intensity. So that'd be like zones three into the beginning of zone four and a small amount of high intensity work, the later point of zone four and zone five, where I'll polarized training is more 80, 20, like zones one and zone two is 80%. And then 20% of your training distribution would be zone four, zone five, something like that. And she says, you can do moderate training, which would be like zone three and a little bit into zone four when you have estrogen, but otherwise avoid it. This was a strange sort of thing for me, because like, if you're in the endurance space now, granted, I'm decidedly not, I I'm like, uh, I, uh, am endurance curious in that I, I enjoy it. Uh, I know that I have to do it and I'm, I like it more than I used to, but I would never consider myself an endurance athlete, but I've read a lot about this. I've researched a lot about this. I've talked with a lot of experts about this, not to say that I am as smart as they are, but they're all like, look, these are just different ways to distribute your training intensity. You can do a polarized, you can do, uh, it can be a pyramid, whatever you want. They work about the same. Most, most important thing is like, does this work for you? And ultimately that you're going to find that out retrospectively, but she was very hard. Like, no, you have to do polarized training. And I'm like, that seemed kind of strange to me, especially at the exercise volume that the population that she's talking to most people do not do exercise period. Right. And the people that do do exercise aren't doing like 10 hours a week of conditioning where your intensity distribution matters, right? Like if you're just doing the minimum, uh, uh, physical activity guidelines, 150 minutes per week of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, or 75 minutes of vigorous, like this does not matter. You don't need to split up your training 80, 20 zone to zone five. Like it's just not enough. Yes. It's, I mean, if we could sit here and, and debate, it's not, I mean, my understanding is that we could even make it even more complicated and say that, well, no, there's actually not five zones. There's seven zones. And so, um, and, and there are various ways to structure the pyramid. Um, and even in the, in the literature, the, the type of, of polarized that you can do, it might even be high intensity for a couple of weeks and then you're doing low. Like, so there's all these different ways where, where you can, but is this interesting and potentially relevant for a high level endurance athlete? Totally. But what, what, what about everybody else? This whole concept just completely ignores what is your training goal and who are you? Because if we're saying you, you can never do high intensity interval training every day. I think as a general rule, that's probably true because when most people are, are doing an exercise session, they're doing a long enough, hopefully, uh, intense enough session that we, we wouldn't want to necessarily repeat that exact same training session every single day. And that would be true whether we're talking about sprinting or deadlifting, you know, just broadly speaking. However, if you said, can I do five minutes of high intensity interval training every day? Probably. Can I do one set of deadlifts every day? Probably. So when it's, how much are you doing? How intense is it? And what does this look like in the bigger picture of your overall training volume? And if we don't discuss that piece of it, like you're just completely missing the, the, the way that programming works and how frequency fits in as one element. Uh, but it's not the, it's not the variable that is actually something that we need to worry about overall. Like the, the biggest variable is that overall volume. And then we're pulling these levers and we're using frequency as a, a strategy in order to program that volume. Yeah. It is interesting. Like if you, if listeners, if you compare what Dr. Clemson Semple just said and the depths that she had to go to, to explain context and all of the other variables that are at play to try to give you a sense of what she's saying. And then you compare that to the statement. Now you can't do zone five daily because recovery. And it's like, well, how much you could do a minute of zone five every day? Or even, even if we're like having a realistic conversation about what somebody could actually do, right? If it's 75 minutes per week of vigorous intensity conditioning. And somebody was like, I want to do 10 and a half minutes a day of high intensity training just to get, to meet the guidelines. And Sims would say, no, you can't. I'm like, you're missing so many of the other factors that contribute to training load. So you're just talking about intensity in isolation without volume, without the modality being selected, you know, all sorts of stuff and even defining like what you're talking about. And so to your point, missing the population that this is going to be largely consumed by. It's got 3.1 million views as I checked yesterday. Largely not to high level endurance athletes, I would suspect mainly because that represents a small portion of the population anyway. Right. And they're not, they don't really care about the training advice here. So it's mostly gen pop folks, which is, which is fine. You aren't really exercising enough. And then this is the take home and it's unclear because it's just a little quick statement rather than like context. And I'm like, if you're in this forum, you have to come prepared with like, if I'm going to say this, I need to give some context and some background and have an actionable sort of step. This is not actionable for most people. If what a person took away from this was I got to do polarized training. And that means I need to do sprints, which she says, you know, 30 seconds on three minutes off four rounds, that's a workout. And I'm like, if that's the takeaway, you just missed this opportunity to positively affect millions of people's lives. And you confuse them polarized pyramid, you know, which type, like, come on, bro. I think we also, the part of the, part of the discussion was that everybody should be lifting weights. Everyone on the panel agreed that you should be lifting weights. And when we talk about lifting weights, we don't use any kind of heart rate zones. Like that's not, that's not language that we're using in the lifting space. So, however, there is such thing as high intensity or high load resistance training. So where does that fit into this recommendation? Because we're supposed to be lifting weights, but we're not allowed to do high intensity interval training. Is that only sprinting that we can't do every day? And how do we, like, so if you're, if you're going to say, I'm speaking to all women in general, and we need to be lifting weights, heavy, right? High load training. And then we also need sprint interval training, but we need to be very careful about the frequency at which we perform either of these things with no discussion for total volume. What's my training program? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. You can't do anything. It's like, it's like you have like a low carb or a low fat or a low fat person. They're both debating at the end, they come to some agreement. It's like, so what do I eat now? And they're like, I don't know. Can't eat anything. Can't eat anything. Drink water. It was also weird. She got the zones wrong. Also. Yeah. She's like zone one where it's sitting around. And I'm like, so no. I mean, there are multiple different models for exercise intensity, three zone, five zone, seven zone that you alluded to earlier. Zone one is like the start of exercise. Just it's, it's definitively exercise. Most places, if it's a Siler's original work or whatever, it's like 50% of your VO two max is like the start of zone one. It might be like 50, 55% of your max heart rate, maybe 60%, depending on who you read. It's not sitting around. Right. And if you even want to go to like the physical activity guidelines, all right, it's gotta be greater than, than, you know, three Mets, four Mets. Well, one Met is sitting around. So it's gotta be, it's, it's not sitting around. And then she says zone two is the bro science kind of thing. If we're going to loosely define bro science, it's a recommendation that isn't supported by the real science. Right. So it's like what you see in the gym and then you tell your bros, and then you guys are doing this pro program. That's probably fine, but you know, it's so like, you're doing it for a reason that makes no sense. And that's bro science. Yeah. Of like all the evidence we have on exercise, like zone two, are you saying zone two is bad or it doesn't exist or that there's like, do you think she was thinking of Huberman when she said it? Like she was like, she just bros, like just right to Huberman, like that image popped in her head, like, or atia, I guess he likes zone two. Yeah. Love zone two. Yeah. I don't think zone two is like this specialized exercise intensity for conditioning that you have to do it to maximize your health benefits from exercise. It's a fine training intensity to use. And, you know, to a Tia's and, you know, to a lesser extent, Huberman's point or people who talk about zone two, the good part about it is you can do a lot of it without it, you know, blowing you up. It's just not very fatiguing. That said, if somebody is only doing, you know, an hour and a half, two hours a week of conditioning, I say only because you're not quite getting to the physical activity guideline minimums there yet, but we're just decidedly not talking about endurance athletes. You don't have to do zone two to prevent being over fatigued. In fact, I suggest probably a little higher intensity because you're not doing enough volume at that point. And so you could probably get a little benefit if it was a little harder. But yeah, bro science, if you just decided to like define it as most people do, like just some thing, it's not optimal, not really evidence-based. It's not the reason why you're doing it or saying it doesn't really make sense, but you do it anyway. And it's like maybe with gym rats. Sure. I don't know that zone two qualifies. I think if what would have been a much better message is again, clarify who we're talking to. What's your goal? Because if your goal is to run a marathon, you're probably going to do a lot of zone two, right? Because your goal is run far and you can't sprint a marathon. So we're going to need some zone two in there. Now, if you're just starting out with exercise, maybe zone two is a good place to start because if we're going on a run, then we want to make sure our running mechanics are good before we start sprinting. With the caveat that you can do moderate or high intensity training using a variety of modalities. And I would say for somebody who's new to exercise, running wouldn't be my pick. All that is to say we're identifying an audience, we're identifying a goal, and then identifying the strategy. And so the strategy would be, am I using a stationary bike or am I going for a run or am I using a rowing machine? And then do I prefer to do something at a lower intensity for a longer period of time? Or do I want that time efficiency and I'm going to get those intervals done so I can move on to the rest of my day or to the other part of my workout? I think any personal trainer would tell you this. So we're having this conversation that seems so obvious. We need goal-oriented training that's going to help people move more in a way that they will do consistently and it'll be good for their health. Or we're going to really optimize all of these things for this athlete for their performance goal. Like, why are we missing all of that very, very obvious context when you're spreading this message to millions of people who, 75% of whom aren't exercising? Right. Yeah. It is interesting. It's like, it makes me think that she doesn't coach people or like it has not coached people for a while or like interacted with people in this way. Because as you know, when you, in a professional sense, if you're in the clinic, if you're in the research world, whatever, you end up developing ways to communicate effectively to others, wherever your niche or professional lives. And so, you know, I can tell on this podcast, the physicians, for example, when they are hard in the medicine, talking about anemia, for example, or like, you know, very things that are not really super related to the wellness industry. So, you know, leaving aside hormone replacement therapy, leaving aside exercise, leaving aside nutrition, the medicine stuff, they're pretty good. And we'll have Dr. Austin Baraki, like talking about the ferritin thing, but pretty good because these are things they actually talk with their patients about regularly. And it's very central to their training, right? How they were educated and they got to stay up on it because it's important. But when they start going away from that, things they don't actually do regularly talk about exercise and, you know, maybe they are having these conversations about exercise, but there's certainly outside the area of expertise, things get weird. They get real weird. And you'll notice in this entire, they got five and a half hours of this podcast, right? Edited. So it was probably longer. That's what I'm saying. At no point do they run through here, the exercise variables, frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, progression. Here's how we would manipulate, you know, and here's what we mean by intensity. Here's what we mean by volume, you know, whatever, none of that stuff. And I'm like, so you don't actually just talk about exercise programming, exercise prescription regularly with people. I don't think you do it very often. And then when you do talk about it, you get very basic definitions wrong. Zone one is sitting around. And so to me, all of this says is like, I just don't think you do this on a regular basis, which calls into question like, why are we going to you as the expert? But before we go down that tangent, hold on, I got something for you. Dr. Vonda Wright, then after this starts taking digs on classes. She's like, these people are doing this Ignite class and it's moderate intensity. And so apparently she agrees that polarized training is good and should avoid this moderate intensity, although nobody defines what that is. Especially in the case of like a circuit training class, because this is lifting weights and not cardio. But anyway, she says you need high intensity for change, but there's a risk of injury up there. So then you need low intensity for recovery and sprint interval training recomposes the body. So she's talking about weight loss, body recomposition. Yeah. What's your take on Dr. Vonda right here? You know, I mean, I think we can have a broader discussion on, on why it's important to stay in your lane because for some reason, when, when people, when anyone writes a book, it's like the publisher insists that they include an exercise and a nutrition chapter, even though they are not an exercise or a nutrition person. And I guess that means because they sell more books that way. But you end up with these insane recommendations that are somehow novel. And so her thing is going to be, you know, the, the, we have to do all this jumping, but when we think about, again, the exercise we're doing and the goal, which we always have to go back to, right? Is it weight loss? Or are we just training for overall health? Because I thought we were just saying these are broad exercise recommendations for women. And now she's throwing weight loss or body recomposition in there. And we very clearly know that in order for us to gain muscle, we want to recommend resistance training because sprint, sprinting, maybe if you've never done any exercise at all, and you do a little bit of sprinting, you'll gain a little bit of muscle and then that's it. So this is not a good recommendation for muscle growth. And when we have a conversation about weight loss related goals, we need to address how many calories you're eating. We need to address the diet because when we start engaging in an exercise program, we typically start to eat a little bit more. And then we have potentially some reduction of meat. And then we end up just not losing the amount of weight we would anticipate from or calculate from this energy that we're expending during exercise. And we don't, you don't have to put that in, right? You, we didn't have to put that whole explanation in there. That's fine. But I would have preferred the message be, we should all be exercising for, you know, for overall health. But if the goal is muscle growth, and that should be one of the goals, we need to lift weights and it needs to be challenging and etc. If the goal is to lose body fat, then we're probably going to need to address that with the diet. Sprint interval training, recomposing the body, meaning you're going to gain muscle and lose fat is it's a highly inefficient, inefficient recommendation for somebody with that goal. Yeah. Yeah. And ultimately, not likely to be successful even in the moderate term, and certainly not the long term, it's just modest changes, particularly if you're untrained initially, but then long term, like, I mean, just exercise, generally speaking, pretty modest effects on weight management, overall body composition, certainly with resistance training, definitely improved can prevent weight regain. And there's a lot of also obviously weight independent benefits that we should probably be celebrating rather than just weight management. But in the context of just like weight loss, body fat loss, whatever, like, most people would would not look would see the results from exercise, generally speaking, and say, that's not very compelling, a very compelling reason to exercise. I'm like, Yes, I agree. I agree. The diet is something that we should people to people don't understand this. A lot of people don't understand this, because they do exercise for weight loss. And as you said, they are kind of disappointed, because it feels like I'm not I'm working hard, I'm doing the thing, and I'm not getting the results. Why not? And so, and we can explain the metabolic adaptation or why, you know, just expending energy doesn't necessarily equal weight loss, even if you're counting all the calories and adjusting it. But on the general message is, we want to make recommendations that are as helpful as possible for people to reach their goals and feel successful, because then they'll stick with it. Otherwise, they'll just give up because they'll feel like, well, I'm working hard, and this isn't even doing anything for me. Well, that's why we need to explain. If weight loss is the goal, then we need to address the diet. And you should be exercising for this host of other reasons. And so for if people understand that, then you're setting yourself up for some realistic expectations. And that it what that's doing people a favor to honestly communicate that. And maybe she doesn't know, I think probably she genuinely doesn't know, in which case, she shouldn't be talking about it. Well, that's that's the whole thing, right? It's like, again, when when these, the the women on the panel are in their definitive area of expertise, and I'm taking Stacey Sims out of this equation, because I'm actually I'm actually not sure. Yeah, exactly. But but the other women physicians who have training, board certified, when you put them right in their niche, generally, they do a reasonable job, not only at getting the science right, but also in communicating that in a way that is accessible. Because again, they do this on a regular basis, right? When they get outside of that area, not only is the science wrong, but the way that they're trying to communicate it, it falls apart, because they don't do this regularly, right? They're not having these conversations with patients. And if they are, Lord, help them, I don't, I don't know what to say. Yeah, it's just it's just really bad. I genuinely did not hear any good advice about exercise in the entire podcast. That was not very generic, like, women should lift weights. And I'm like, Yep, we agree. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, Okay, but but what about like, how? Okay, so let's let's rate this. Let's give this some bowls here. All right. So this is our exercise section conditioning specific. I'm going to give this five bowls on the BS meter, mainly because like at every step of the way, it's just wrong. Like just definitions are wrong. The way that you're talking about prescription is wrong, that stuff you're leaving out is important. So that's also wrong. You agree? If it's a five out of five on the BS scale. I agree. And I'm going at least a 4.5, if not a five on the harm. Because when we think about overly complicated recommendations, where we don't even understand why we're doing the thing that we're supposed to be doing, or how to execute this recommendation, this is putting up another barrier for people who aren't exercising to just start doing something. And I wish people who have go on these big platforms, you know, you have hours just to convey a message. Why can't we say for the majority of people, we need to find something that we will do consistently week in and week out for years to come. That's, you know, one of the best things you can do for your health. Let's just all say it. Yeah, yeah, just lead with that. Lead with that. Yeah. Yeah, I think if you if you factor in like opportunity cost, like the time that they spend talking about stuff that is either wrong or definitively does not matter, right, and it's not actually helpful, then yeah, maybe five, five or six out of five on this on the harm scale. Yeah, you had an opportunity, you fumbled, and then further added in a bunch of stuff that was incorrect. And so if somebody were to take this information, they would do, I guess, only some sprint intervals. Apparently four is the number, according to Dr. Sims, they would lift weights, but unclear how or how often, but they would not do any moderate intensity, continuous conditioning, they would not do any low intensity steady state, because again, you know, you don't need to do that. You just sitting around that zone one. So you don't need to you don't need to do anything. It's just sit around a little bit. That's so what I so and then they on top of that, if you added that with the the cycle syncing, then they would, you know, just do less. So under training, just sprint intervals, plus weightlifting, like I'm here for the weightlifting, I guess I just would be curious as to what that prescription would actually look like, because that never happened in the entire five and a half, whatever hours. And they never talk about like, so in general, like, here's how many days per week you should be lifting. Here's how many, you know, exercise you should pick it like just any sort of organization, right about that. Whereas I would say, look, you should be lifting at least two days a week should all the major muscle groups of the body for a couple sets that feel kind of hard. Yeah, I find that it made it harder to listen to as well, because there was so much bouncing around. And so it wasn't like, okay, let's talk about lifting weights. And then, you know, we're going to start here and talk about it for 10 minutes or 20 minutes or however long we need to talk about it, and then kind of put a button on it for the listener and say, here's the takeaways, and then move on to the next topic. Instead, it was just kind of bouncing back and forth between the discussions about hormones and then the discussions about exercise, which overlapped with, are we lifting for general health, or do we have these endurance goals, or do we care about muscle, but then what about hormones, and then bone? And it was very, very difficult to follow. And I don't know if we can blame the guests necessarily for that, because they're not responsible for how the show was organized. But I do think if you're communicating something as important as exercise, then it is on you to frame it in a way that people understand, what am I doing, and why am I doing it? Yep. Yep. I agree. It was very challenging to follow this. Finally, we want to address a medical topic that came up, anemia and iron deficiency. Now, the guests on the episode discussed how the norms of ferritin have changed and suggested that the medical establishment is accepting sicker populations as normal. So I called in Dr. Austin Baraki to weigh in on this topic. Let's hear from him. Hey, I'm Dr. Austin Baraki, and I'm happy to be joining this breakdown of the recent diary of a CEO conversation. The clip you're about to see focuses on women's iron status and iron deficiency, which is extremely important in women's health. So let's watch the clip, and then I'll provide a response. Anemic, with iron deficiency being the leading cause. Hmm. Have you noticed the norms have changed? So it depends on who you read. Yeah. Again, you know, when you're looking at male normative curves versus what, you know, we tend to accept lower levels for a female, but now that we're looking at performance and, you know, looking at other factors besides just what is this ferritin level, there's a lot of great new research coming out that we are looking at this differently and that we're in our clinic, we are looking for 60 to 100 for a ferritin level to be considered optimal. Very different than, you know, the baseline for, you know, keeping you out of out of a hospital versus you functioning at your absolute best. Yeah, because the norms that often get measured for us. Because they tripled, right? They were 15 and then they went up to 40. So now they're saying 20 and above is normal. And when I look at a lot of women who are sitting 20 to 30, they can't get help. They cannot get help. And it's like, whoa, it was maybe four or five years ago. If you were below 50, then we would look to get help. But now with the norms that have shifted with the sicker population, we can't get women help unless they are below 20. So when we say normal, I think this is important for everybody watching or listening. Normal in medicine means common, not non-pathological. Okay. Not bad, you know, doesn't mean it's not bad. And so norms shifting, meaning we're getting sicker as a population and we're willing to accept lower levels, although they're not optimal for health. The lab reference range, what they say when you get your blood work drawn and you see the reference range, is based on population averages. And so if the population is more anemic, this is going to accept lower levels being normal, even though they're by no means optimal. And I think that's one thing we all talk about is, well, how are you feeling? Your symptomology, what do we see? And you have to interpret blood work in context of the whole person and what is happening. And that is one issue we do see with getting your own blood work drawn or these online companies, when nobody's interpreting it or helping you interpret it on the other end, you see something that is in a normal range, but it's not at all optimal for you. And it could be the reason why. False assurance. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So despite a lot of controversial things that might have been said in the rest of the episode, I actually mostly agree with the core claims being made here with a few caveats that I'll explain. So as mentioned, ferritin is the body's primary iron storage protein. It's also the preferred lab test for assessing iron status. Much more accurate than measuring iron levels in the blood and a lot less painful and invasive than the gold standard test of doing a bone marrow biopsy to measure a person's iron stores. There are some caveats and nuances to interpreting ferritin levels in practice, especially among patients with inflammatory conditions, those with liver disease, kidney disease, but we'll set those aside for now. The bottom line is if your ferritin is low, you're probably iron deficient. The question though is what is low? So this turns out to not be so simple in practice. Ideally, we can find the sweet spot of where we set this cutoff that gives us the best diagnostic accuracy while minimizing the risk of both false positives and false negatives. Lab tests should, as mentioned in the podcast, also always be interpreted in the context of the person's clinical presentation in order to guide our management strategy. So even if you do have a low ferritin with some iron deficiency, it is often not just as simple as just take some more iron. Now the core issue addressed in this podcast, and one that I actually fully agree with, is that many labs use a lower limit of normal for ferritin that is far too low. You'll often see this cutoff at 12 nanograms per milliliter, 15 nanograms per milliliter, or micrograms per liter. Now why is this? Many lab ranges are set by looking at the distribution of values seen among an apparently healthy population, meaning those without active ongoing signs or symptoms of disease, and arbitrarily setting the cutoff at the lowest 2.5% of values. The problem though is when we examine these same populations and we do that bone marrow biopsy test, we find that 30%, 40%, upwards of 50% of apparently healthy young women, the same types who would be included in these samples, have completely depleted iron stores in their bone marrow. No iron stores. This is most often due to a combination of menstrual blood losses and insufficient dietary intake to keep up with those menstrual blood losses. So if you set a normal cutoff based on descriptive statistics, rather than based on physiology, you're essentially normalizing deficiency. There's actually no physiologic reason why the normal range for ferritin should be fundamentally different between men and women. And so we need to understand iron status on a spectrum. Most people are familiar with the concept of iron deficiency anemia. This is most well recognized, but it also represents the end stage of iron deficiency. When your iron stores are so depleted and have been for so long that it's affected your ability to make red blood cells leading to a low hemoglobin level. But non-anemic iron deficiency is where you have low iron stores, but your hemoglobin might technically still be normal. Our body is quite good at stripping iron out of other tissues like our muscles to prioritize it for blood production. This state is often missed or it's disregarded. And this unfortunately leads to undertreatment. We start to see the consequences of iron deficiency well before people become anemic, if we know what to look for. This suggests that the lower limit of normal is probably higher than most standard lab reference ranges suggest. For example, low iron stores can impair exercise performance and can contribute to symptoms like fatigue. We have multiple double-blind, randomized, controlled trials that have shown that women who are non-anemic but have ferritin levels below 50 can experience significant improvements in their fatigue, their VO2 max, and even their exercise performance when they take supplemental iron. Iron deficiency is also strongly linked to restless leg syndrome as a result of low iron stores in the brain. Supplementation can help, with some evidence suggesting an even higher threshold of at least 75 for this condition. And finally, studies using advanced biomarkers find that the body's methods to compensate for iron depletion don't actually return to their baseline non-deficient levels until ferritin gets at least to 50 or higher. Now, my only point of disagreement with the podcast is the framing that we are progressively more accepting of lower levels, quote, as the population gets sicker. They seem to imply that we are setting new cutoffs based on an increasingly sick, increasingly anemic population, allowing these levels to drift further and further downward, which is just not accurate. While it is true that many reference ranges are set on a sort of convenient sample of an, quote, apparently healthy population, the actual lower limit cutoffs of ferritin have been getting increased in recent years, not decreased due to a sicker population. While the WHO still maintains a general cutoff of just 15 for apparently healthy individuals, in 2020, the American Gastroenterological Association increased their cutoff to 45. The American Society of Hematology currently uses a cutoff of 30 and suggests that you can use 50 for people with signs of iron deficiency or ongoing risk factors like ongoing menstrual blood losses. So while this area is still evolving, these limits are not dropping lower due to a sicker population. As we recognize this, we're actually increasing them as we learn more about the physiology. And so while one side might frame issues with these lab cutoffs as accepting of a more sick population, the other and unfortunately more conspiratorial side tends to frame these things as we're just changing cutoffs so we can sell more drugs. We saw this with changes to recommended blood pressure cutoffs, and blood cholesterol cutoffs. Now it wasn't true in these situations either, but that's a discussion for another day. Sometimes you just can't win. The takeaways here are pretty straightforward. Don't accept a lower limit of say 18 as normal, especially if the person is experiencing symptoms that could be suggestive of iron deficiency, whether or not they have anemia. For most people, using a ferritin lower limit of 50 is reasonable. You could do a lot worse than the recommendation from the podcast of aiming for 60 to 100. I, in my practice, typically use oral or IV iron, intravenous iron, and treat to a target of at least 50 in general and over 75 for those with restless leg syndrome, while also evaluating and treating for the potential causes of iron deficiency, like blood loss or intestinal diseases, absorption problems, et cetera. Ultimately, I do think that we should be testing patients and women in particular more broadly for iron deficiency. We should interpret results based on symptoms and physiology and treat iron deficiency earlier and much more aggressively. So thanks for tuning in, and I look forward to your thoughts and any further discussion on this topic. And that brings us to the end of our review for part one. Now, our goal with this episode wasn't to be negative, but more to provide a filter. There's so much information coming at you from influencers and even credentialed experts on large platforms. So it's vital to distinguish between a mechanism like a hormone spike in isolation and an outcome that actually matters to your life and training, like the amount of strength and endurance gained from exercise or your bone mineral density or having a fall. Now, if you want to train for health, find something that you can do consistently. If you want to get strong, lift weights. And if you're feeling fatigued, we shouldn't overlook anemia. We should still train and auto-regulate it, but don't let the fear of, quote, cortisol or hormone matching keep you from moving your body. Big thanks to Dr. Lauren Kalenzo-Semple and Dr. Austin Baraki for their expertise today. If you found this helpful, please leave us a review and share it with a friend who might be confused by the noise. For Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. Thanks for listening. We'll catch you next week for part two. We'll catch you next week.