 gIsonIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII style of periodization, meaning you're discreetly training for specific variables versus a concurrent training model where you're training everything at the same time. Don't confuse concurrent periodization with or sorry, conjugate periodization with conjugate training, which is West Side. That's different. The fun fact is, Louis Simmons started calling this conjugate training when it's really concurrent because they train everything at the same time. My answer to you is, no. Don't do that. Here's why. One, they're not Olympic weightlifters. Spending a ton of time on the Olympic lifts and only that, it's probably not useful. Your job as a strength and conditioning coach is to get them strong and to the degree that you can improve the conditioning that they need for their sport-specific tasks, that's your job. Does doing power clean and getting somebody strong? No. It's a sub-maximal display of strength. Doesn't mean they don't need to do them a little bit. Not a whole block of them, if that's the question. Further, if they're not very good at them, then it's not very useful for their training. They'd be better by getting their deadlifts up. I think that you already have scant training resources and so the idea of dedicating those scant training resources to just hypertrophy, just power. I probably wouldn't. That being said, in my programming lecture, we just talked about how important hypertrophy was, right? So a really well-programmed strength block should have significant hypertrophy work as well or otherwise contribute significantly to hypertrophy, meaning it has enough volume to do so. And so if it's me, I would rather do concurrent training where you're training everything at once. Yeah. There's a bunch of different training models that will do that. DUP does that on a weekly basis. They have like a hypertrophy day, a power day, a strength day. I don't think that's the best way to program either, but you could do that. So are you the head strength conditioning coach? No, I'm still undergrad. You're still undergrad. But I mean, going through the courses... Yeah, that's NSCA 101, but they just... That's straight from the book. Yeah. You're going to have to regurgitate that on a test. I'm taking an assessment of strength conditioning. Yeah. As opposed to the essentials of strength conditioning. Yeah. But in my mind, I was like, why would I do that? Yeah, I wouldn't. I wouldn't. So good. You passed the first test. So there is some evidence suggesting that you will have worse of that type of pain when you have the magic triad relating to hydrogen ions, which is resulting from acids, lactate being present, as well as ATP being broken down into ADP. Those are all present. They've done some studies where they infuse this stuff in various combinations. But when all three are present, you tend to get some more of that type of discomfort. The extent to which inflammation plays a role in this is actually controversial. It is not, it does not appear to be a strictly or a very convincingly like pure inflammation situation. There is probably some component of it, but there's also, I mean, people in here have probably had some soreness before, probably taken some headsets for it before, and it doesn't make your soreness go away completely. So there is some non-inflammatory features of it. There's probably some inflammation going on as well, but the idea that it is just plain accumulation of lactate is not accurate. Oh no, that just enters the liver via the core recycle to make some pyruvate. Yeah, lactate is a fuel source. Yeah. Yeah, just carbs, really. Anaerobic metabolism produces lactate, and then that gets recycled and used again as fuel. You know that people, supplement companies are selling lactate? They're not? Yeah, well, only in CrossFit, because if you're selling stuff at CrossFit, nobody's checking to see what you're doing. So you just sell it, and you have somebody say, yeah, I used it in my school, what up? Never mind that you were actually training for another six months, and that's what happens. But yeah, so they sell lactate because it increases energy. Yeah, dude, it turns to carbs. It is energy. Ah. Yeah, I mean, that's a significant time difference. Yeah. So, if you're asking, does that likely disrupt your normal circadian rhythm, the answer is yes. Well, I don't think you should do anything about it. Yeah, okay. And I don't know that that would contribute strongly enough to any alteration in performance compared to the other inputs that you have on performance. Right. Unless you freaked out about it affecting your performance the next week. Yeah, I mean, I guess what I'm saying is that there are other things I'd expect to affect how you do more than that. Yeah. And so, I mean, if this was like a, if you had to squat 405 for a double for a million dollars, and then this happened to fall all the day after that you had that thing, then I'd be like, hey, can we just move the test back a little bit so we just one less variable to mess with, but for your normal training, yeah. Okay, and you guys, said to, like, there's not, like, an optimal amount of sleep that you can define as... Certainly not on an, like, to give an individual recommendation on a population level with the current guidelines, say, somewhere between seven and eight hours. But, do you think the eight, do you think the eight is in there as a holdover? Probably. Like, so seven is the number, it's like 7.2 something, was the average number of hours where people have the lowest mortality and morbidity of disease. All right? So, when they're writing this up, here's how I imagine this goes. They're like, hey, we've got to write this up, we probably can't just say 7.2, it's not sticky enough. Yeah, just put seven to eight. Well, yeah, there's also the consideration of what are the error bars around the 7.2. Well, yeah, but you think it was 0.8 hours? No. but here's the other thing to think about is that that data is for morbidity mortality, right? After everything you've heard us present this weekend, particularly discussing numerous situations where there appears to be a spectrum, right, of individual differences on things, right, how can we tell you your optimal amount of sleep is X? There's no way. No way. It's impossible. Yeah. Right? So you might, turns out, you perform best when you have 7.6 hours of sleep, X percent of which is REM sleep, when you have no apneic events overnight and things like that, right? We can't tell you that and then he next to you might be 7.8 or something like that so just do the best you can. Yeah. Right? And I wouldn't sweat your, I mean, your little weekend swings in sleep schedule too much, especially if there's nothing you can do about it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It's going to be published and up-to-date and it'll probably be out this summer. Yes. Yes. It'll be directly accessible to any primary care physician who has access to up-to-date. Which should be every, almost every. Private practice might not have a subscription to it but, you know. How do you think they live? What do they do? They just practice on whatever they learned back in med school and do a lot of things wrong. I'll edit that out. So the way we, the way we structured the article is the introduction discusses kind of general concepts and strength training. The middle section discusses strength training, the evidence for strength training in very specific medical conditions kind of going down various bodily systems and medical problems that are very common like heart failure and heart, and coronary heart disease and stroke and diabetes, obesity, things like that. Chronic kidney disease, whatever medical conditions we see most commonly. And then there was a practical section of like putting it together and risks, you know, concerns over musculoskeletal injuries or whatever, addressing the concerns that physicians might have when it comes to actually recommending this stuff. So that's the structure. When we wrote it, it ended up being, what, over 10,000 words the first draft or something like that. So it was long. So the ultimate plan is to actually divide it into two separate articles that are going to be more digestible. And so that I would expect to be out sometime this summer. Well, so that's the thing is you have to define an outcome. If you just want something that's like impressive or that's like a compelling study when it comes to resistance training for any outcome, I mean, there's lots of those. And if you wanted to pick and choose one, you can just go through the article once it's published and we cited a bunch of them. If you want a very specific example that's relatable to what you all did this weekend in 2017, there was a trial called the LIFTMORE trial. Yeah, LIFTMORE. L-I-F-T-M-O-R trial. You know, all these trials now have acronyms. L-I-F-T-M-O-R. M-O-R, yeah. Yeah. And they took a bunch of like 65-year-old women with osteoporosis and had them squat five sets of five, press five sets of five and deadlift and progressively overloaded them over the course of the study. So with barbells. With barbells. Correct. Yes. If you wanted a very, very direct example relating to what we did, I don't believe they showed any signs of volume sensitivity. They're volume resistant. And then their bone density improved. There you go. Okay. Yeah. You're probably volume resistant if you're old. Yes. Which means you need more what? Stress. Need more stress. Less won't work. Less won't work. Less won't work. Less won't work. Well, so you could. The issue is going to be at some point you will outstrip your ability to acquire enough stress in a single session. Your recovery is still improving. And then also, so at that point, you may split that over multiple workouts. You could. So think about if you're like, all right, so we're going to three sets of five. I'm going to go to six sets of five. But you could just split that over two days. Say, I'm going to do another set of three sets of five on another day. The progression is unlikely to be workout to workout because it's actually requiring more time for you to accumulate that stress. Does that make sense? Yeah. So if you demand, if you set it up so that the program demands that you perform with five pounds heavier the next day, obviously that's not going to work. So you have to take that into account. Right. You'll need more stress, but it will take more time to accumulate that too. Yeah. Yeah. One of my favorite clients, he's a spine surgeon in his 60s, right? So he had a laminectomy L5, S1, had fused discs in his neck, right, and another herniated disc. And he's a spine surgeon. But yeah, also the girl I was dating was her dad. I'm like, don't mess up. Don't mess up, right? Day one, I remember trying to get him to do, wouldn't lay down on the bench to do a bench press. He's like, oh no, I'm back. I'm like, okay. He's like, I stand all day. Why would I ever lay down? I was like, good point. So try to get him to do a pushup, right? He couldn't even, that was just like his back, right? And I was like, all right, well, we can't go horizontal in any type of way. Let's just, I'm just going to put a bar on your back. I was like, I've had enough of this guy. Let's kill him. I don't want to deal with this. You know, I don't know. So in any event, little bar on his back. He was able to squat just above parallel the first time we had him squat. And he ended up running his LP type progression to 275, three sets of five on a slump. The only pearl that I would have from that is that he actually did keep tweaking his back after his deadlift got above 315 for a set of five. And so it just kept happening. So we moved him off the floor and he pulled from the rack when he did deadlift. But he didn't train regularly enough to really go get any stronger than that. And I think a lot of it was he never maintained the adaptations to the deadlift he had done before. But his strength and potential was still like fairly high. I mean, if you think a mid-60s year old guy is taking his LP to 275, 375, that's higher than we would expect. That's almost as far as I made it on my level. Well, that's why he went ortho and it's fine. It's like the alpha and the alpha. We have all coached numerous people who have disc issues, both known and more likely undiagnosed and unknown just because nobody is taking a picture of their spines. Remember the rates that people tend to have these things at? So again, I put up the data of what proportion of people at age 20 and at age 80 have issues with herniated discs or degenerative disc disease or all this other stuff. So just statistically, if you coach a handful of people, somebody in that group is going to have had something like that. And then when it comes to people who have symptomatic issues with those problems, yeah, we still coach those people all the time. They do fine. In fact, what they need to do, both from a physical development standpoint and also to teach them that they are okay. I think we're all on some level intensity dependent from a strength perspective, right? So like, if you only train at 30% of your 1RM, you're going to get weaker. Yeah, so we're, and same with me, we're all intensity dependent to a point. That point is about 70% of your 1 rep max. That's the threshold before volume becomes fairly useful for strength outcomes like a 1RM, all right? But after that, we are all volume dependent and I wish that I was volume sensitive. I wish I was because that means I would only have to do two or three sets of five to get a big response. I am volume resistant. The untrained old lady is volume sensitive and thankfully for her. Lucky her. I don't think it's useful from an injury perspective, injury prevention standpoint. I think it's more useful from a resensitization standpoint increasing your adaptation potential to repeated episodes of strength training. So effectively, you've changed all the exercises, you've lowered all of the intensity and you've bumped the volume through the roof. So it's good for muscle and hypertrophy. It's good for resensitizing you to the main lifts, right? And additionally, I mean I've done the restoration blocks. I view it as a washout, a washout period. Like you've had this previous huge like consistent training stress that you went through and then you have a washout period. Two weeks, three weeks tops and then back to them. So from an injury prevention standpoint, I think that would require a discussion of alright, where do we go on the line between like what's pain? It's not the same as injury. Injury is not the same as pain. Okay? And does resistance training, respond, variability in resistance training in and of itself produce decreased injury rates in resistance training? And you're like, I don't know. I don't know the answer to that either. I do know the injury rate within resistance training itself is extremely low. So, yeah, competitive weightlifting is the same. So, I probably wouldn't do anything based on injury management in resistance training. And I think if you put a gun to Mike's head, you know, he's like, you don't really have evidence for just sort of the plane. And then he would say it's mostly for a resensitization. I mean, that's what he's told me. So, exercise selection. So, they do a few things. One, they would increase muscle cross-sectional area. It could be good for hypertrophy. Why? Because you can do a lot of volume that's not terribly stressful. It's more volume. It's some stress, but it's not like doing a bunch of barbell rows or deadlifts, for instance. So, it's somewhere on that spectrum. It's unique. They're different. You haven't seen them before. So, they're novel. So, you don't have to do a lot of volume to get a ton of response from them. So, good for muscle cross-sectional area of muscle hypertrophy. Are they great for strength? I think, and so, I think the only contribution is the hypertrophy. I don't think they're great for strength development when they're that far away from the actual movement that you're testing them. See what I'm saying? I could make an argument, I could make a better argument for leg press on the squat, for instance, or leg press on the deadlift, than I could GHR or lat pull-down. That'd be a stretch, in my opinion, outside of muscle hypertrophy. I think both of us probably, when we have folks who have just been training maybe into a high-level meet or something like that, in the initial few weeks afterwards, they definitely go to far less specific exercise selection, generally lower intensities, and maybe the first week, most of them want a mental break. I need a mental break, man. Initially, the training volume at that stage might be a little lower in the week afterwards, but then it goes up again with these different exercises for a little while before we get back into dedicated training. I would agree that there's probably not an injury prevention deal there. There is everything that he said in terms of the novel stress, and there's also whatever goes on up here in terms of when you have been training for weeks and months on end to prepare for a given meet, doing the competition lifts, especially towards the end, when that's almost all you're doing. Sometimes you want a break and you want to do something totally different. I might take a conventional puller and have a pull sumo for a couple weeks afterwards. No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't. Done it. Oh, my God. Next thing you are going to tell me sometimes you have people spot highball. Frequently. Whoa, who are you? I don't even know you. Isn't my CNS fried? Unlikely. Fried CNS? It's undercooked. I mean, it's undercooked. You're not fried, you're undercooked. I like that. That's the next t-shirt. This is your brain under trained. That's difficult. Yeah, well, so it depends on a person. So if they're a novice, then you could probably actually get stronger. If they're post-novice, well, they still may be novices if they've never really trained before. But if they're post-novices and they're in season in a sport that has a hyper-focused season where they have a lot of practice and games and everything else like that and they can only train twice a week, they're not getting stronger then. And they're probably actually going to detrain. There's no way they can't. There's no way they can't. Correct, because you're still providing something to stave off the decay. There's just nothing you can really do. But the more trained they are from a strength standpoint, the harder it's going to be to maintain that over the course of a sport season. Yeah. That being said, they may still perform better. I mean, you know, at that being trained at a high level. Yeah, the main state would be to try to maintain as many useful characteristics as you can. Right. And don't do a lot of extra nonproductive stress. That's a great question. So your question was about what kind of certifications would they have? Or experience or training. like, you know, and I know a lot of the certificates are kind of not worth the paper they're printed on. So you'll probably be designing one. Yeah. That's a big process. Yeah. I don't know. So I think that they would have some probably graduate level degree, mainly because that means that their critical thinking skills are high. Right? Probably in a science related field because it would be very difficult to say, okay, you have no science background and now you're going to interpret all this data that would be difficult to do. After that, I do not think that there's a credential right now that's worth having that would show me that someone knows how to coach or program or stuff. So I'd rather instead of that that they have practical experience doing this. So that they've been a lifter for a while and they've been coaching people for a while, even if they've been doing it wrong. So at least then they've spent some time under the bar and they kind of have some, you know, those intangibles that you can't pay for, you know, some time related things. So graduate level, some graduate level science related field would be fine. They would have experience and then they would have free time to learn. I mean, look, you and I both went to medical school, all right? I have a graduate degree, a master's degree on top of that. We've both been training for a long period of time. Like, this is the most inefficient way to go about becoming a useful strength coach and still we're losing to Jim Wendler who couldn't articulate any of this. We're losing to Mark Bell, all right? Who, again, it would be an evisceration if we got to debate these people, all right? But we're losing to them. So let me change my answer. If I was the most effective strength coach, it would be a female, all right, who's very, very attractive and who's a mute and has a lot of money to pay for the PR agent, the professional photos, the plastic surgery that's going to elongate her career, right? And who also has really low morals. That would be the best strength coach from a financial incentive standpoint. I don't think he's going to be able to make that happen. Just looking at him real quick. So, I don't know. You know, honestly, it's just frustrating being in this industry because I feel like I talk to these people all the time and I'm like, how are you in this position, right? So on the one hand, I'm pumped that they're trying to get other people to train, right? If that's goal number one, cool, we're all in this together. I'm happy that you're spreading the word. But then when it comes down to the nitty-gritty, how are you coaching people? How are you programming people? What are you advocating for? And you're full of shit. You're full of shit. And the best case scenario is you're putting that out yourself. You're writing that stuff down and publishing it yourself. The worst case scenario is someone's having that bullshit ghostwritten for them, right? So it's being put out even more places. And it's like, no one didn't pick up your trash e-book. You didn't even write it, but it's still trash. Right? We're losing to those people. We're losing to those people based on numbers. We're trying to get a little better. So, anyway. If I had to build the best strength coach, they'd have a graduate degree in science-related field. They would have trained themselves and trained others. And if I had to recommend a credential, I think I'd still have to say the starting strength credential at this time. It's a great place to start. Get an Instagram account today. Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this a little bit before, but getting some sort of a carb, some sort of a protein, and some caffeine in you would be a good idea before you train. Is there, like, too much? Like, I could get... Well, that's to be titrated to effect. So you don't need to eat a full meal, right? So you're going to be conservative. But if you have something and then you go train and you feel under-fueled, then you know what to do the next day. If you have something and you feel unwell while you train, take it back there. Yeah. My standard rule of thumb in this situation is one scoop of protein and half cup of instant oats. Put it in a vessel overnight, mix with water. So you have, like, overnight oats. It gets to sit there. And then as soon as you wake up, you throw that down, grab some coffee, go in, start training. If you find that you get bubbly guts because of it, then I would back that down to one scoop away. If you do that, you still get upset stomach because you're eating and active right afterwards. Just don't eat anything. Coffee is fine. It's better to train than not train. And I think, but if I had my druthers, I'd have you have a little something. Peri-Rx would be a fine beforehand as well. Well, basically that'd be even less than the BCAAs, but still potentially something. And you're getting hydration as well. I just wouldn't be awake. Seriously. I mean, I've had to wake up plenty for years at a really early time. So me training that early is less good for me. But if I had to do it... I've done it before when I had to do it. I mean, my preference was something similar to the way, but I would do a banana instead of oats because it just went down a little easier and healthier. Well, I didn't want to feel all that fiber sitting in my stomach for a little while. Sure, paleo. So, just, yeah. That's what we mean like some sort of carb like that, that you can tolerate well while you train. Yep. Yep. Yep. I wouldn't eat anything during training. My rule of thumb is generally not eat anything during training. So, right, as soon as you roll out of bed, you have that, maybe you change clothes, feel like you have a BM coming on, do that, then you're ready to go. Or maybe make sure you have a BM before your first set of... Well, that's what I'm saying. Sometimes it has to mobilize a little bit, you know, and then you start warming up and then right before your first work set, you take care of it. Yeah. Do you take your knee sleeves off and you go to the bathroom? No. You leave long. Yeah. Really? I pull them down. Individual variation. I feel like I'm getting, you know, they're like cutting, you know, in. Nah. That's fine. Alright. Alright. We both train two days in a row every week. Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday, Friday. So her program, she's a recent graduate of the LP, so ideally it'd be non-executive days, like mostly, so you would be a little fresher for each. I mean, we're trying to impart an X amount of stress, right? Now, X amount of stress can be acquired through weight, right? Relative intensity. It can be acquired through volume. It can be acquired through exercise selection. What you're going to be changing it to if you train two days in a row, if even up the weight on the bar goes down, is you're training under a pre-fatigued state. In which case, the stress is going to be the same. So you'll be fine. You'll be totally fine. And you may find out that it doesn't matter because now you're savage. It likely won't. So change it. You'll be fine. So last week, you deadlifted what? 140 for a single? Single at eight. 140 for five today. Fine. It's proof that RBE doesn't work. No. What I would say is just extrinsic motivation. Sure. Some of the psychological things going on. Yeah, good pull-up. Good pull-up. Good deadlifted. All right. Look at me. All right. You have far more. I did CrossFit for two months. You did it for two years and then came back and did it again. Yeah. I know. You did it for two months? Is that what you said? Yeah. And then went back to it? I did CrossFit for two months. Yeah. My squat went down immediately. And so then I said, this is not what I want to happen. So I went back to regular training. He did it for a couple years and got weaker and then came back to strength training and then did CrossFit again. Oh, you didn't learn. I'm a slow learner. So I think that CrossFit has had the most positive effect in the history of barbell training since the creation of the barbell. It's done wonders for the equipment industry, right? Years ago, you would have to send off a money order to some dude in Oklahoma and pray that five weeks later this bar showed up and wasn't bent because that place didn't exist anymore. And now Rogue can outfit your entire facility in three days. So that's great. What they've done for women's athletics, I think, is unparalleled in the history of women's athletics and it's mostly positive and they've given them an outlet to compete and to further their athletic development. Okay. Now, I think... It's a compliment sandwich. Yeah. That's what's happening. I got it. That from a training paradigm perspective, it's completely wrong and not useful and potentially harmful because you're convincing people that harder is better. And that's wrong. Not... I mean, it's just wrong from a physiology standpoint, from a training adaptation standpoint, from a return on investment standpoint. Okay. And instead of saying, well, yeah, I know this isn't working very well for you. Let's... Okay, we're going to change some things. It says, no, you're just not trying hard enough. It's always on you. Right? Which on the one hand, is supposed to be empowering to a certain group of people who say, well, I might just try harder or do more. I'll get better. No, it's just not for you. Right? So that's... I have a problem with that whole paradigm and then also the idea that this metabolic conditioning training is somehow superior to any other type of training for specific outcomes like strength or hypertrophy. For instance, health. It's not. If you want to get good at doing CrossFit, you have to already be really strong, really jacked, and then you get good at doing CrossFit. Right? So you don't start in CrossFit as being bad at stuff and everything and have no strength background and then go to the games. It's never happened. It never will happen. You have a bunch of super freak athletes that have been identified and they say, hey, I want to make some money and I can't play my regular sport anymore. I'm going to go do CrossFit. That's what happens. Okay. So that's one of the negative things. The supplement industry that is associated with CrossFit is the worst part of the supplement industry. I didn't think that it could get worse than the bodybuilding part, but it did. CrossFit existed. CrossFit started. So that's fun to deal with. The amount of nocebo and snake oil sales people within the CrossFit community is unrivaled in other athletic disciplines. You've got a complex. You've got Romwa. You've got literally Smashworks. You mean rock tape. You go down the list. Literally all that stuff is bullshit. Bullshit. And they're taking people's money under the guise that if you don't do this you can't compete. Here's the newsflash. You can't compete anyway. You can't. If you did, you would have already known it. You would have been selected for. Okay. So I think that's fraudulent in a way. But then I have to assume that these people are smart and that they know and then they're not. So I don't know. That's tough. Tough to actually say it's fraud. Okay. Greg Glassman has lost his mind. I assume. But he did give grand rounds at UVA. So the medical community is not immune from getting bit by the CrossFit bug. Other positive things about CrossFit. There's a gym in nearly every city that I've ever wanted to go to to do a camp in and I can now do a camp there. CrossFit folks are some of the hardest working folks that I've ever met. They're some of the nicest folks I've ever met. And I have nothing bad to say about my experience with CrossFit other than the programming and the people who are in charge of running CrossFit. So I'm pro-CrossFit as long as you don't actually do CrossFit or work for CrossFit. Well, can I say one more thing about CrossFit? I don't care. Okay, cool. What is CrossFit? Well, come on. Well, I mean, yeah, it's true. Don't tell me the broad time, modal domain, mix it. What is CrossFit? More specifically, what is not CrossFit? Well, I mean, I think it would just be like a strength movement with like a lot. So if there's no Metcon, it's not CrossFit. That's where we draw the line. Where do we draw the line? I mean, I would say it would have it in it, yeah. Okay. But if there's no Metcon, it's not CrossFit. Didn't they do like a softball throw? Well, well, yeah. I mean, they probably do, but that wouldn't be, most people wouldn't say. That this is stereotypically CrossFit. Right. Yeah, typically CrossFit. So I think, yeah, so I think if you agree that the main site is representative of CrossFit, what it really is, then it's a terrible strength program. It's terrible for hypertrophy. It's not great for getting good at CrossFit, okay, because you don't have enough repeated exposure to specific skills, right, specific strength movements to get better at those, right, just because something's scalable doesn't mean it's still effective, all right, so I think that the best thing about CrossFit that's going forward is momentum, and they've got all these people doing it, but nobody's saying, what are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing? What are we doing?