 Ariglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglglgl and so we get to grill you about your life, your goals, and what you're doing. For people who don't know you, tell us about your background. I started CrossFit in 2014. Fortunately, parents let me try every sport under the sun, soccer, softball, t-ball before that. That was always fun. And then swimming was the one that kind of stuck. And so did that throughout high school. I actually really wanted to play volleyball, but my parents said I was too short, so we didn't do that. And so stuck with swimming in high school. Thought about maybe doing it in college, but wasn't quite good enough to look at some of the top tier schools. So thought about giving it up towards the end of high school. And then we moved out to California my junior year in high school and matched up with a great coach. Him and I worked really well together and then kind of peaked my, a little late, my senior year in high school. And fortunately after that, a lot of the, like, Pac-10, top Pac-10 schools at the time, Cal, Stanford, were reaching out. But I already committed to Notre Dame. So I have a big family history there. So it was really cool to get in there and to be able to swim there. So I went there my freshman year. Didn't, wasn't really into South Bend, Indiana. So no, not quite. And then, so decided to transfer to Cal my sophomore year. Swam there, was awesome. Got to go to Olympic trials. Wait, wait, you're an Olympic level athlete. Not Olympic trials. Olympic trial level. Not Olympic, yeah. Do you put that in your bio? Is that a thing? Like, it's on my resume. It's on your resume. It's on your resume. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. 100%. And got to be a part of a relay that broke an American record. So that was really cool. Stopped swimming in 2012 and had no idea what I wanted to do workout wise. But how come you stopped swimming? So that's the big, so, so you're a standout swimmer who by your own ambition peaked later. Yeah. Which would, you know, most athletes who end up peaking later tend to have longer careers or whatever they peaked late on if given the opportunity to pursue that. Mm-hmm. So you would graduate at college. Yeah. Do you have, do you have any more eligibility left or you just didn't want to swim anymore or what's the... Uh, so I had no collegiate eligibility left. Okay. So I could have gone technically pro, um... Just pro swimmers? Yeah. Is it a thing? Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I mean, you're not making, unless you're Michael Phelps or Natalie Coglin and those people, you're not making much money, but, um, but you can go pro. Uh, I don't know if this really makes a difference, but so college swimming is swam in short course yards. Okay. So it's a 25 yard pool. Yeah. And then you have a long pool for pro stuff. For Olympics. Yeah. Oh, wow. So I was significantly better at short course yards than long course meters. Gotcha. So long course meters was for Olympic trials, Olympics. So I was decent enough to get to trials, but Olympics was just, unless it was short course yards, probably wasn't going to be on the table for me. So I figured, um, that if I wasn't going to get to that next step, I was kind of like, you know, I'll move on from it or end on a high note. So. Got it. This is actually a little non-fact about me. So I swam for two years in high school. Did you? I know what you're thinking that I have the build of a great swimmer. Definitely. Yeah. I think when you're looking for the prototypical swimmer, you're looking for like short, very broad. Yes. And then lots of hair. Like as much. Yeah. Yeah. Extra, extra hair. For the drag. Yeah. Yeah. I was actually, so I was terrible at almost everything. I wasn't a good, not great at freestyle. Backstroke, I probably would have drowned. And then, uh, uh, How much strokes did you do? Right. So I was a flyer. Oh, me too. Yeah. Like, you know, she does less from my, and the running joke is that it's from, from her brother. Yeah. But, uh, yeah, it's interesting. So, and then Baraki, uh, Dr. Baraki's, uh, Barbell Medicine is our partner. Yeah. He was also a really good swimmer. He's flying at William & Mary in college. Oh, cool. Yeah. So, we're just a bunch of swimmers, not me included. Like, I think, I won't drown, but, but, you know, I would consider it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. So, uh, so you're, it's 2012. Mm-hmm. You're, eh, I'm out of swimming. And at that point, you're like, then what? One of the reasons I stopped was I honestly didn't enjoy training for swimming all that much. Okay. Um, loved racing and I loved the weight room. Um, you guys did a lot of, when was the first time you touched a weight? So, probably my first experience with Olympic lifting was my freshman year in college. So, they actually taught us, kind of like level one CrossFit taught us how to clean with a wall wall. Really? Yeah. Okay. So, you had a medicine ball. Yeah. That's interesting. Yeah. Dick Cowley, who's the guy who created the Dynamax balls, right, right, is like turning over. Like, he just is, he's like, I didn't mean it for this to happen like this. Yeah. All right. So, freshman year you learned to do a med ball clean. Yeah. And then you, first time you touched a barbell, how much did you clean? I remember in, at Cal, um, probably the most would have been 125 maybe. Well, you say that now because you're like, oh, that's not even that much. No, but for, yeah, no, for sure. Well, and also my lifts were not technically sound at the time. Any gym in America, any commercial gym in America, if there's a girl, a woman, power cleaning 125, I mean, people are stopping to watch what's happening, right? Yeah. I mean, you know, not at a CrossFit gym necessarily, but at another gym. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, no, it's true. I started talking with my strength coach at the time about doing an internship after I graduated. That's right. And wanted to go into that field because I was like, I love the gym. I love working with athletes or being around athletes. Like, this would be amazing if I could make this my job. So my, if anyone had asked at the time, what, Colleen, what's your dream job? I would say to be a D1 collegiate strength and conditioning coach. But honestly, I thought it was going to be something that was five years down the road, just because I had seen so many people around me that went from internship to internship and then tons of more schooling and then still weren't getting in the door. I mean, a lot of that has to do with someone has to leave before you can take that job. Sure. Leave or die. That's the thing. Right. I would. So like Instagram Live, somebody would be like, oh, I want to be a D1 strength and conditioning coach at like University of Miami. Like, how do I get there? Like, all right. So I don't know who the coach is there now, but he either has to retire. He has to leave. Right. One, he, which is a problem. Yeah, for sure. Two, has to either leave or pass on. Yeah. And then at that point, the assistant is going to get in. And so, yeah, there's like a, it's like indentured servitude until you get the call up to the majors. Oh, so true. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, I remember that being impressed upon me. I used to be a big, like, I was at the National Strength and Conditioning Association. You get your CSCS. Oh, I got that. Yeah. And then you go to all the meetings and you're like, you know, rubbing elbows with people who were putting out the studies that you're reading, right? Yeah. I remember I was at the, it was 2010. I was in Orlando, Florida. It was the only, like, it, it was an unseasonably cold January. I went down there because I was like, no, it's going to be warm. No. It was snowing. Yeah. It was snowing. And then the weird part was apparently geckos do not tolerate the cold. So they crawl up trees and then die and then fall. Yeah. It was weird. So every time you pass a tree in Orlando, there's just like a grave of geckos. It was a weird time. I don't know why I remember this, but anyway. Yeah. So I was talking to this guy who was a D1 strength assistant strength coach, but at Division One school. And he also worked at this place called IMG, which was like this in Florida. It's this huge campus of strength conditioning. It's like the Mecca. They have like full golf courses and tennis courts. And actually CrossFit went there with like Camille and a few other athletes to like test their like broad jump and vertical jump and like how well they pass the functional movement screen. Right. Like what are you making a year? Yeah. Yeah. Right. This is where I want to be. And he's like, you know, make like 45,000 a year. Wait, what? Yeah. I was like all of this. If you, you've gotten a position that if you can get to, right. And you have to have a college degree and you have to have a, you know, additional education, you have to know people and you're making not much money. And also your job's on the line because if you hurt, if someone gets hurt, whether it's a lot or not, if you're, if your teams are having bad seasons again, which is not your fault, you're not the recruiter. Okay. And you don't control the strategy of the game. Yeah. Yeah. You're talking online. And at that point I was like, maybe this isn't what I want to do. Yeah. I love coaching. Right. But I don't want that sort of responsibility that if I'm not, if I'm not in control. Yeah. So I had every intention of doing like about maybe a year, uh, in that strength conditioning department. And my family still is in Illinois, but was also in Illinois at the time. It's like, you know, I'm good with California. I'll move back to Illinois after this and then start, you know, uh, I don't know whether it was more schooling or whatever it was to get to my dream job at the time. So, um, and then that summer, the guy who was my strength coach while I was swimming calls me up just randomly out of the blue. I was at home visiting my parents and said, you know, I'm leaving Cal and I'm recommending you for the job. And I was like, no, I mean, I'm 23, a female. Sure. I was, I mean, I love the weight room and stuff, but I wouldn't say I was really qualified to, I don't know, have that on my plate at the time. Um, why did you feel that way though? Cause at the time you'd gone through, you'd been an athlete. Yeah. Right. And you had your CSCS. So most people at that point would probably feel like, well, I've checked the next necessary boxes. What was your reticence you think towards like, why did you feel like you didn't necessarily deserve it? I think it was mostly because everyone else in the strength department at the time was one. I think the closest person in age to me was maybe like eight to 10 years older. And then also had done just so much more research schooling. And so I just felt a little behind, but, but like you said, I did feel like I brought experience to the table and the fact that I was an athlete at Cal. Yeah. Um, so you kind of knew the way the system worked. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Now, if this thing happened again, would, I mean, do you feel like you're qualified at this point in your life? Yeah. You're probably more qualified given your experience and then your sort of exposure to different coaching and actual training. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Just been out in the world more, have picked up a lot more things. She's a woman of the world now, but that's 2013. Yes. You haven't found CrossFit yet. No. Haven't gone to church. Got it. Yeah, really. Well, actually, so that was, it would have been 2012. 2012. Or end of 2012. Yeah. 2012. So you're doing Zumba, you're doing spin classes. Oh, I did. Spin, cardio, hip hop. I think I probably did Zumba at some point. Sure, yeah. You're not talking about that. Yeah. Step classes. All of them. Yeah. Okay. And so, and then when is the first time you do a CrossFit class? Summer of 2014? No. 13. And then, okay, so you do CrossFit. Day one, you go in there. What are your thoughts? So, I went in and I remember the workout was deadlifts and I don't know if Turkish get-ups were in the workout, but they definitely were either, I don't know, like a strength or skill piece before. And then, definitely went way too heavy. I had never done a Turkish get-up before. Right. And, but I went in being like, oh, yeah, this is fine. It's fine. Um, and I distinctly remember walking in, the workout was deadlifts and something else. And the, normally, you know, if you walk into a CrossFit gym, you have to do some sort of on-ram. Yeah, yeah. Or something. And so, I had talked to the owner and some people there and I was like, hey, I was a college athlete, you know, I've done that blah, blah, blah. And they're like, yeah, yeah, it's okay. Like, we'll help you out and stuff. So, kind of skipped that process, which I probably shouldn't have. Right. Like, yeah, that's fine. I was like, cause I, you know, had never done a snatch or, I mean, honestly, I don't know if I've pressed overhead before. So, um, and I remember the coach, uh, who ended up being a really good friend of mine, was like, have you ever done deadlifts? And my answer was, lots. I was like... That's a great answer. You're like... And I was just so excited about it, but, uh, and I was sore as s*** the next day, but like, was obsessed. Yeah. Like, went seven days a week. I was like, I don't need rest days. Like... Sure, I don't have a problem. I can stop whenever I want. Yeah, right. I totally drink the Kool-Aid. Just as an aside, I feel like, have, like, have you ever done deadlifts? Like, is a great screening question on dating apps. Like, if you actually match with somebody and you have to ask, like, this opener, have you ever done deadlifts? And if their answer is lots, then I think they should say, cool, let's hang out. But if the answer is, what are deadlifts? Like, that's a red flag. Oh, no. Yeah, definitely not. Well, that's interesting too, though. So that's 2013. That's like a very interesting time in CrossFit. It's literally blowing up. I mean, I went through my level one in 2007 or 2008. Oh, wow. Okay. You're like, wow. No, I just thought I didn't mean it like that. You're much older. No, I didn't mean it like that. So you gotta watch out for that. You can bathe yourself quickly. Yeah. And at the time, like, CrossFit was like fringe, you know? Mm-hmm. So if you were at a CrossFit gym, you're like, you kinda had to drive somewhere, you know, remote. Especially in the Midwest, you know? And you're like, where's this warehouse? It's unlabeled, you know? Mm-hmm. But you felt cool. At that time, like, CrossFit was much more, I mean, there were more options. Yeah. So you went in there. You said you were an athlete. Yeah, you don't have to do this on-ramp thing. It's fine. Yeah, yeah. I mean, were you stronger than everybody else off the bat? Um, for the most part, but not with the more technical lifts. Sure. Like, it was funny, I was actually going through old videos, and I found my One-Ramp Max Snatch video at the time. I think 115. But you said your one-arm snatch was 115. I mean, there are people who have been training for years at a CrossFit gym with coaching who came from that 115. Right. So, I kinda wanna make this point. You were strong already with minimal actual training. I mean, I'm trying to make the point that your athletic history gave you a huge base to draw from. Oh, for sure. Even though you weren't, like, well-trained from a resistance training standpoint. Right. And, throughout your career, you'd be like, okay, we're gonna follow this program, and this is intelligently thought out, and we're gonna coach you very well on the lift. But, despite all of that, you're like, yeah, I got something strong. 115 is not a big deal for me. Or, you know, a 225 deadlift, for instance, you probably did on, you know, day one or something like that. You have developed since then. But, consider the difference between your first experience at CrossFit. Like, you went in there. Not only were you able to do everything, right? Yeah. But, you were able to do it to a level that was, like, almost enjoyable. Yeah. Like, what if you were terrible at everything? Like, seriously, like, you could only deadlift 65 pounds. Yeah. And that was a struggle. And, like, whatever the gymnastics, like, a Turkish getup, like, you couldn't do it. Do you think that you would've had a different experience? Like, that would've been a different... Yeah. I mean, that's a leading question, you're like, do you think it would've been different? I think it would've been different. But, I guess what I'm saying is, is it was fun for you. Like, and you're telling that you have fun. Right. So, you have the personality type that you're competitive, so that is fun for you. Yeah. And you did well. Mm-hmm. And you were competitive. Right. So, all of it, like, checks all of your boxes. Yeah. Oh, for sure. Whereas somebody who doesn't have that background, doesn't have that aptitude initially, I think it's a different experience for them. Yeah. You know, I think I admire the person who goes in day one and has a terrible, like... Oh, and still keeps coming back. Yeah, and keeps coming back. Yeah. Something to be said about that. Yeah. But, you know, your sort of progress since then has actually been remarkable. That's one of the reasons, like, I wanted to bring you into the Barbell Medicine interview series. If you say it low, it gets either creepy or like... Right. So, all right. So, you started your 115 snatch and some proficiency in CrossFit, but you're a very strong lifter. Strength is kind of one of your, I mean, one of your things. So, you said, you told me you front squat at 300. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Which is, I mean, that's humbling for a lot of people. And you, your best deadlift that you've ever done with your... She does have very short arms, so you have to... Your best deadlift is what? Uh, so I haven't tested it in probably... Notice the caveat. Like, three to four years, but I think 375. That's a lot. That's not a little bit. That's a lot. That's a very heavy deadlift. Uh, and then you're, you just PR'd your clean 260. Yeah. Which is... I was out of nowhere. Savage. And your best snatch is what? 215. These are legit. Those are legit numbers. And the ability to do that with, while maintaining a huge aerobic base is, is super impressive. So, being, I mean, do you think there's any way to achieve what you've achieved in CrossFit without this sort of strength component? Well, like, without being somewhat strong already? Yeah. I mean, I, I think for me, like you've talked about, or you've mentioned, like, people that go into a CrossFit gym and, you know, don't have a good time with whatever. For me, anytime gymnastics stuff showed up. Sure. I just, it was very humbling. Yeah. I mean, so unathletic. Um, to the point where when I started to shift towards, okay, I want to be competitive in this. And was like, okay, I'm going to do, classes aren't enough anymore. And I'm going to do my own programming. And so I started just following stuff online and would literally, because no one, when I was doing this by myself, no one would know what I was doing or what I was not doing. Right, right. So anytime gymnastics came up, did not do it. Yeah, sure. I was like, I don't like that. Yeah. I was like, oh, thrusters and spots. Cool. Okay, I'll do that. It's a barbell. Yeah. I liked that. And I mean, it's, I don't know what I was thinking because it's not like those are either magically going to get better just by me ignoring them. Sure. And they're not going to not show up at something like regionals. Sure. So. I'm going to make an argument and then you can, you can argue that. Okay. Well, so, so because, because I think that that one, the line of thinking is not uncommon in that I have these weaknesses. I need to hammer them home. I need to like address them. Otherwise they're going to be exposed. Right. However, the very first year that you did crossfit, you made it to regionals. That was the first year of regionals. Yeah. And then the next year, you went to regionals as well. The next year you went to regionals and the year after that you were very, very close to making the games. Right. Um, and, and so my kind of argument is that your strength base and your ability to get stronger rapidly with that sort of programming that also, uh, had built your aerobic base and anaerobic base. Yeah. Um, allowed you to succeed in spite of the deficiency that you would say is gymnastics. Right. Yeah. And I'm, I'm going to make the counter argument that the person who comes in with great gymnastics, but an inability to develop proficient levels of strength within that sort of programming paradigm. Yeah. Could not have done the same thing. Um, mainly, mainly because you, you, the, the strength is the barrier to entry. Like if the barbell weighs X and that is heavy for you. Yeah. No, it's true. You have no choice. I mean, you're, you're just, all right, well, I guess we're doing singles on deadlifts. Yeah. Meanwhile, you're like, it's fine. I can do whatever I want. Yeah. You know, and then you get to muscle ups and sure, maybe you got to break them up or you get to chest bar full ups and sure, maybe you got to break them up. But at least you made it there. Yeah. So that's my, that's my, my argument isn't necessarily that if you were a burgeoning, you know, or budding CrossFitter that you should work on one or the other. My, my, my argument is that if you are not strong, you don't have a prayer. Yeah. You, you can't even get into the discussion of, well, what should I work on? Right. Your strength is not high enough for you to have this discussion. Um, my experience with CrossFit, when I came to it, I was like, my strength was not too high is the wrong descriptor, but it, it wasn't really good. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and so like at the time, I think I just squatted like 600 and some change and then it was 700 and then it was 400 and well, but that was, I had been a competitive powerlifter for a certain period of time. Oh, right. And then I looked, oh, I have do CrossFit now because I'm burned out on powerlifting. Yeah. So the strength stuff was not hard, but like the first time I did a clean, like I had to do an actual like squat clean. It was like 245 because I couldn't hardly hold the rack. Right. I failed a 60 kilo over at squat because I'm like, I don't know what I'm doing. Yeah. But three months later I overhead squatted 160 kilos. Mm-hmm. Uh, and then I had cleaned 155 or something like that or, you know, so it wasn't, it just, I got better, my skills improved. Yeah. But the strength kind of helped me that sort of, that sort of regular improvement. Yeah. And so my, my experience was that if you're strong, it makes CrossFit much easier. Yeah. Or much more accessible even. Right. You can't do CrossFit without the aerobic stuff. Mm-hmm. You can't do CrossFit without the gymnastics stuff. You're not going to be good. Yeah. If you don't ever develop the strength or you don't have the strength. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I, I don't know why you're doing comp training if you can't deadlift double body weight. Right. Yeah. Like that. So depending on what level of CrossFit you're talking about. Sure. Yeah. I guess from a CrossFit standpoint. Yeah. Because I think like the Open, for example, you don't have to be very strong unless, you know, there's going to be a half of a workout that asks you to do like this year. Sure. A one hour max. Sure. So yeah, that might hurt you. But for the most part, the Open has always been just how good is your endurance? How well can you handle pain for the most part? I think over the years it's getting, there is heavier, I mean the weights are going up. There's more skill involved. But I think that's, I mean the whole shift of, it's the same thing at regionals, same things at the games. I think before you could be an amazing gymnast and roll into regionals and still do okay. Sure. But then you saw in, not necessarily last year because it was all dumbbells. No, no barbells. Yeah. It's totally fine not being there for that. No, but two years ago we had a snatch ladder that started at 135. Yeah. And the minimum work requirement was I think at least one snatch. One still breath. And there were a lot of girls that were getting disqualified because that is either their one rep and they couldn't hit it that day or they've never hit that weight. So I mean now it is, but that's also the thing. Now you can't also be freakishly strong and not be good at it. Yeah, you have to have motor. Yeah. I mean you have to have everything. Yeah. I think, you know, I tried to make an argument that the Open was not sensitive enough to actually select for the best athletes because it was so dramatically different than regionals or the games. So that's like an argument that's like, well, so I definitely hear it. So I definitely hear it. And, and, but the, you know, when I went down that road, that argument that I had with myself, and this is a totally normal thing for me to have just an argument with myself, was that, well, the same top people make it on a regular basis. And so maybe that's not necessarily the case. Maybe I'm looking at it wrong. I mean, what's your, what's your take on the Open as far as it being representative of the demands of regionals and thus the games, which we are assuming is a proxy for the fittest person on earth. What do you, what do you think about that? So I don't necessarily have an issue with how they test from the Open to regionals. I think regionals looks, I think the gap between regionals and the games is way bigger than just what they call for. Okay. Um, I do think it's a little strange that each part of it is so different. Um, so I don't know, necessarily know if you're getting from the Open to regionals, if you're getting the people that were, will perform the best at the games. I think you're just getting the best people that did the best at the Open and the best at regionals and now they're at the games. Well, sure. By definition. Yeah. So, um, which for me has always been, cause regionals tends or in the past has always been more or less skill based. I mean, there's been heavy stuff, but it's mostly, I mean, just with the venues and everything, it would be really hard to have like a swimming event or running event. Yeah. Each one. Which I would love. That would be amazing. That's what we meant. Yeah. And you have to do the fly. Right. Um, but yeah, I mean, I think the Open is interesting now because CrossFit has grown so much and, you know, years ago it wasn't a sport. And now it's this thing where we're trying to be all inclusive, you know, to get people involved at gyms, but it's also used to qualify people for this next level to get to the games. Yeah. And there's a lot of money on the line. Yeah. So it's kind of weird because you almost want to see it split, but then, but then would people be as invested? Because I feel like people think it is really cool that, you know, they can be like, Hey, like I'm doing the same workout as, you know, this cross is. It's probably not necessarily me. Yeah. Definitely. Someone else, but, um, yeah. So do you think the average CrossFit gym goer, recreational CrossFitter, right, who just goes to the gym four times a week, not, there's nothing wrong with you. I'm not saying there's nothing wrong with you, but we're just saying that, that there's, there may be different tiers of athletes. Do you think that person should participate in the Open on a yearly basis? I think it depends how long they've been doing it at first. I think it's, um, when people for, well, and also what is your background? I think when people first sign up to CrossFit, if they've basically been sedentary for most of our life and then, you know, the Open's coming up in two weeks, I think it's cool to give it a shot, but sometimes it's like, okay, maybe you're not ready for that volume. Like, yeah, maybe inappropriate. Yeah. Yeah. Cause you have to go live your everyday life after this. You don't want to not be able to walk for a week. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, for real. Yeah. But, um, I understand like people want, I mean, that's the whole point of going to a CrossFit gym is, or for me it was, I was, I hate working out by myself. So it was like the fact that I could be around other people and talk to other people and socialize, like that was the biggest draw at first. So yeah. So I mean, yeah, I would agree with that. If, if the doing a CrossFit Open significantly increases your compliance with training. Mm-hmm. So like, because you love it. Yeah. And you like the community participation, you would feel ostracized from the community if you did not participate. Mm-hmm. And therefore by premier compliance. Yeah. You end up at the gym. Right. And it's only going for another year. It's a win. I will sacrifice that week of training and the three weeks of detraining it provides afterwards because it's inappropriate volume. Yeah. Right. But I do think it's cool year to year that people can, you know, see their progress or, you know, like last year I couldn't do a double under and now I'm doing all these things. So. Provided the tests are the same in the pools. Yeah, that's true. Yeah. Well, it gets complicated. Well, yeah, cause it's, I mean, that's the hardest. Well, especially transitioning from, I mean, I swam my whole life and the pool size never changed. The events never changed. Yep. It was always like, you're swimming this event. It wasn't like, oh, you hop up in the box like, ah, just kidding. You're swimming this new stroke. We just invented it. Yeah. Although the water board is getting this time. Right. Good luck. Yeah. So, it is, yeah. So. Complicated. Right. Nuance even. Yes. Ding. It's like a nuance counter. Oh my God. So. People can play a game. They do. It's a dream game. Every time he says it, oh, he's doing it again. He's still got a shirt on. I'm getting it. I'm kindred. So, okay. So, yeah. I think I would probably agree again. If the community thing is the reason why people are doing CrossFit in the first place, do CrossFit. Yeah. Do the open. First is fake. It should probably be free. But, you know. I can't. I think they have to recoup the money and I think that's fine. Alright. So, let's shift gears a little bit. Okay. So, your competitive history in CrossFit 2014. 2013 is first year. You end up going to regionals. So, I started in 2013. 2014 was the first regionals. Yeah. So, yeah. Okay. And then how'd you do there? I honestly don't even remember. So, that was when we didn't have the super regions yet. Okay. Like a sectional thing? Just... So, it was just Northern California. Okay. Um, and it was at San Jose State. I remember this. Um, and that was actually the first time I met Molly Bomer. Yeah. I don't remember how I did, honestly. Um, I'm sure I could look it up. So, but you had a good time. You were ultimately unsatisfied. Right. Next year, you go back. So, that's 2015. Yeah. And how'd that go? You went to regionals again. Right. Uh... This one is super regional. Yeah. So, they were taking top 20 out of NorCal. Okay. Instead of top 40. So, when I made it in 2014... It was top 40. Yeah. And I got bumped in because people went teams. I didn't. I wasn't actually in the top 40. I was like... Still went. Yeah, yeah. No, it was really cool. Um, and then, yeah. So, 2015, um, I think I got 23rd. Okay. And this is California Super Regionals. Yeah. And they're taking like top 6 of the games or something like that. 5. Top 5. Yeah. And then, 2016, you ended up 7th. Yeah. And they took that 5 again. Uh-huh. Yeah, should we talk about that more? Like, to bring it... No. Well, so, you guys have to know, like, the last event was this rope climb, lunge, workout. Uh, rope climb and thrusters. Thrusters. Yeah. Something had to do. And you kept like moving down the thing. You had to run back. Yeah. And it was... Oh, wait. Wait, which year? Are you talking about 2016? Yeah. Okay, yeah. Yeah. And so, it was the last event. It was like you, Alessandra Picelli, and Brooke were like, like, right there for number 5. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think Chyna Cho would have been in the mix, but she ended up like just crushing that workout. Well, so Chyna Cho and Jamie Hagia are just freaks of nature when it comes to Legos or climbs. I know. And I was just like, I mean. Well, so, right. At that point, I was like, oh, maybe it'll be like the competition. And I was like, okay, they were like, we did really good at this. We did really good at this. And so, yeah, it was you three, last event, and then Alessandra Picelli just ended up nudging out, and then I think Brooke got sixth, and you got seventh. Yeah. So, okay, so you're like, I'm close. Yeah. But that probably didn't go over very well. You weren't pumped about that. Oh, no. Not at all. Lots of crying and pizza and beer after that. It was weird. We had the same experience. That was a lot of crying and beer and pizza for me. Yeah. But you find out at some point that your rotator cuff is torn. Yeah. So, here's the, yeah, so I want to shift gears and talk about this injury thing for a while. So, you're, it's 2016, you just like have performed at arguably one of the highest levels that you've ever performed at. Mm-hmm. And then, did your shoulder hurt the whole time? No. So, I think it was, I mean, through that open, actually when I was watching video of the open in 2016, I'm like heavily rock taped up, like. So that's fashion. I think, yeah, right. I mean, it just went with an outfit for the day. You look good. You look good, right. You look good, right. Black tape in time. All black. Yeah. And it wasn't, not necessarily like awful pain, but just a lot of discomfort. Sure. But nothing to where I was like, I really need to get this checked out. I was just like, oh, I'm doing CrossFit, like my shoulders hurt. Yeah. Weird. We're doing so much shoulders. Yeah. Um, and then. And you weren't bench pressing at this time? Uh, I think like once a month. Once a month. Yeah. Strict pressing, not as much? No. Because most people just push press and jerk if you're doing pressing at the time. Yeah, right. I'm not doing much, like other than the Olympic lifts and squatting, like not a whole lot of. Just FYI, she like presses like 45 or triple, which is savagery. And she told me that her close grip bench is her favorite lift. What do you bench press? Just forward hit. Uh, what did I hit? Um, I think I hit like 205 or 210 close grip bench. Incredible. That's a really good bench press. Alright. Okay. She's not a power lifter. Yes. Honestly, I would just like to have like, just do lifting. Just weight lifting. She said weight lifting originally, but I think we're just going to convince her. We do both. That's what they say. We'll get to the dark side. You said you like sumo deadlifts, so it's fine. That's true, yeah. Alright, so, so this is after the regionals. When do you find out that your roadshare cup is torn? Uh, let's see. About a month, I think, after. So that's like August 2016. I mean, what was the, you decided to finally go get an MRI or what's the? Yeah, so I started to go back into training and it was just nagging me too much. I was having to modify too many workouts and squat snatches, ring muscle ups, chest bar, just really hurt it. Okay. And, um, was like, you know, maybe it's all in my head. Maybe I just need to take a break, but let's get an MRI just so I can have peace of mind. Yeah. Um, yeah. Yeah, I just wanted to know what was going on. I was like, well, you know, I, I just figured that if it was, I mean, as bad as a tear as it was, that, you know, I wouldn't be able to lift my arm and all these things. Well, you said you were just 80% torn. Yeah. Yeah. So, I don't know the percentage offhand, but there's some non-zero percentage of significant, maybe like a third of people who are walking around over the age of 30, who have at least some tear that's visible on rotator cuff, on imaging. So, what's most interesting to me, not only has been your comeback story, but then also initially that you were able to perform at such a high level with an 80% tear in your rotator cuff that will ultimately require surgical repair. Yeah. So, so to me, one of the most interesting things about this is that you were able to do so and it was fine. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so that, I mean, there are people out there who are, if you have a rotator cuff tear, the, you know, the repair isn't necessarily something that needs to happen unless you have instability or chronic pain. Right, right. Like it's affecting your ability to earn a wage, which all those things, it was kind of like, it was there for you. Right. So, you have this repair done when? Um, the very, I think it was the 1st of October 2016. How do you feel after you get the, when you, when you find out you need to have surgery? So, I remember I was driving to work and my coach who helped me, um, like went through him to get the MRI and stuff and he sent me the results on my phone. And, and that, I was like, I probably shouldn't have been looking at that while I was driving. I had to pull over into a Best Buy parking lot and just bawled my eyes out. You were upset? I was, yeah. Why was it, why, so, yeah, I guess, I'm wondering why were you upset about it? Because on the one hand you had this like performance that you felt like was not your best. Mm-hmm. And you're like, well, now I got a reason. Here we go. We're gonna be better next year. That's like one way to take it. Yeah. Another way to take it is, aw, crap. So, for me, I saw 7th as, I mean the year before I was 23rd. So, I was like, okay, that's, I'm like, yeah, I'm really bummed that I didn't get to go to the games, but, hey, if I can make that progress in a year, like what could I do with another year? So, in my head after I had, you know, gone through just being sad about not making the games, you know, I was thinking I just have to do the same thing and just be healthy. That's all I was telling myself. I was like, so when I found out, you know, my shoulder was torn, I was like, there goes the year. Oh, you thought, you thought 2016 was done. Oh, yeah. 2017 was done. Yeah, 100%. I was like, I have to, I was like, there's no way for me to, maybe I could get back to most of the movements, but to be able to just undergo all the volume that you need to not only train, but then do at regionals. It was like, there's no, you know, you're also starting to think, you know, I, I won't be doing CrossFit forever. I want to be able to move my shoulders and arms well for the rest of my life. So, I don't, right. I understand. I know. Um, so, yeah, so I thought 2017 was going to be a total wash. So, we're talking about 2017. Molly calls you. We got in touch somehow and had never hung out before, but, um, we, uh, I called her up and I was like, hey, I'm doing, it was 16.5. I was like, hey, I really don't want to do this by myself. That's thrusters bar burpee. Yeah. Jump over. Right. Awful workout. I did that workout. Did you? Well, yeah, I mean, that was my run at the games. Um, you know, people really thought that I was going to do well. Yeah. They were like, you're so strong. Yeah. It's like, well, that thing helps burpees. That's what I think. Right. Right. And I felt like, you know, my, you know, boobs are big enough that I thought that I was going to be low. The problem is, it's just too much mass. Like, you know, yeah, to move. I remember in the middle of that workout, I just wanted to quit. But then I was like, if I don't put a time in, I'll have to do it again. Oh, yeah. Thrusters are usually the worst work, the worst movement for me. But thrusters, double unders, burpees. Like, in, in, like, in that order. I agree with burpees. But everything else is fun. Yeah. Like, you want muscle ups? Oh, I saw. Oh, it's very good. They're, they, I mean, look, they're not pretty, but maybe. I don't think they're ugly. Like, if you think of like a muscled turtle, like, alright, hey, muscly turtle boy, go like, get yourself up on those rings. And they're like, oh, you did one. I, and then, or like a deficit handstand pushup. Like, my, my best workout ever would have been, okay, we're gonna do really heavy deadlifts for low reps, and then like, really deep, strict deficit handstand pushups. That would have been my best, like. Yeah, yeah. Or a workout that already exists would be King Kong. My best, would have been my best workout. Well, that's a fun workout. Yeah. Now, I'm like, 4.55. Yeah. Yeah. 2.25. I'm like, what about the clean? I'm like, it's only 2.55. It's fine. Uh, but yeah. Okay. Nobody cares about my crossfit. That's not true. I, I wrote this one thing, and you know, people were like, well, how did you do that? I was like, well, I finished 1,999, which was 1,998 behind Ben Smith that year. No. So I felt like, yeah. I like that about myself. Yeah. Pretty close. You're gonna give me another year. You're right. I'm gonna get there. Alright, Molly calls you, she's like, hey, you should do team. What's your team? So she had been talking with, so we were really good friends, or still are, and she had been talking to Jason Kalipa. He was talking, so they had a team in 2015 that almost won the games. Was that the team that... Yeah. So unfortunately, that year, Miranda tore at UCL. I remember that. She like tried to go do everything. Yeah. It was like her knee. Right, yeah. Which was brutal, because they were just crushing everyone. Um, so that was a bummer, but Jason was like, hey, like, kinda like, we're gonna get the band back together a little bit. Um, but Miranda was done, and you know, I had, uh, Molly and I had, or, and I think Jason and I had talked a little bit about it the year before, like the thought of going team. I was like, you know, I'm gonna do individual this year, but like, who knows in the future. And, um, and I told Molly, I was like, hey, you know, if I can, you know, get my, I honestly didn't know how long it was gonna be, like the rehab process and all this stuff. Um, but I was like, hey, like team might be a good option. Um, just because I could in the open, do the bare minimum and we can have an alternate and still get a team. So I just have to be ready for regionals, which gave me a few more months. Um, and, um, honestly, it was, thank God for that team because I don't think I would have been able to push the way I did through rehab and physical therapy and all that stuff. If I didn't have more of an immediate goal in sight, um, and more people counting on me. Um, uh, because coming back from that surgery was way worse than I thought it would be. Yeah. That's what you, that's what you'd mention. Um, I guess I'm more curious and people probably curious. What about your training changed after you were done with like just the range of motion stuff? Did you find, so, so you're back to training. You've been cleared to like do whatever it feels like you can do. Right. So, all right. So what was the first thing you tried that you couldn't do and you were like, okay, we have to do something else. Oh, anything like that? I mean, it was literally a back and forth with my physical therapist every single day. I was like, can I try this? And he's like, sure. And then it's just me sitting around for 10 minutes. Like, I don't know. Can I do it? Can I do it? Like, cause you just feel, I mean, half, or I would say more than half the battle is forgetting that you had surgery. Sure. And, um, honestly, I think it was maybe like a month or two ago that I finally stopped thinking about my shoulder in workouts. Oh, wow. Okay. Cause you're just, you're anticipating something going wrong or hurting and, um, cause it had been torn for so long. I just got used to that. Um, so, um, but, uh, but yeah. So there was nothing that you couldn't do. You just had to get over the anxiety of like, hey, it's back together. Yeah. I mean, I remember when I first did, I was so scared to just hold a plank. Oh. That was really freaky. Yeah. Um, and then I could do knee pushups and that was like super cool. Like, I'm doing a bunch of ups. Yeah. But it was, I mean, it's so humbling and like you just forget. Um, I mean, that's the thing, especially not to get like super cheesy and corny, but like when I have really crappy days in the gym, I'm like, I would have given anything to have a really day at the gym. Like when I couldn't lift my arm above my head. A hundred percent. Um, so honestly, like it's a blessing in disguise in that way. It just puts things into perspective. How many times have you used the hashtag blessed since you're not many? I feel like I just feel like it's been ruined. I think like blessed is like a good word. Yeah. I think I can't use it now. But no, it's like too like, it just feels, it's like a, you know, basic thing to do. Right. Like if you have Uggs on and your pink, you know, Victoria pink gear, then you can use hashtag blessed. Right. But only if your face is not in the picture. You have to be facing it. It has to be a plus. For sure. It's a butt picture. Yeah. 100%. Yeah. With a Bible quote. With a Bible quote. My God. These are all the worst social media trends of 2017. Oh God. Yeah. The ruining for the rest of us. Anything else change about your training? Do you find that you were benching more, pressing more, doing more strict work than before? Like, is that anything notable that you can recall? Yeah. I think especially, not necessarily right after the surgery, but when I started with OPEX, definitely more, like, felt like more bodybuilding-esque stuff. Sure. Not necessarily that it is bodybuilding, but I was doing a lot more. Like, when I first started with OPEX, I was doing no kipping whatsoever. All, like, doing strict pull-ups at least once a week. Sure. Probably two, three times a week. Benching more, strict pressing more, like, didn't start push pressing until, I mean, somewhat recently. Wasn't doing many jerks or anything like that. Um, and it was definitely annoying for a long time. Like, why am I doing this? Right. How do you do other stuff? But then, like, two months later, all of a sudden, strict muscle-ups feel amazing. Right. Because you weight your strongbears develop. Yeah. But it's, I mean, and that's the thing. It's nice to feel, with gymnastics for me, that's a weaker point, seeing it in progression like you would to get better at a lift. Sure. You know what I mean? Instead of, I feel like before in the past, I've just been, like, banging my head against the wall and just doing them over and over again, hoping that something's gonna magically click. Sure. And, I mean, if you want to get better at snatching, you don't just go and snatch every day. Like, there's stuff to... Yeah, well, so I think the more skill that is involved, the more skill that is involved in a movement, the less, at some point, you outstripped your ability to just get better at the skill. Like, you've effectively maximized the return on investment from your training if you're just doing that movement. Yeah. And a snatch is like that. It's very high skill. Muscle-up is very much like that outside of the strength contributions. So, Kyle Pierce, who, you're familiar with Kendrick Ferris. Yeah. So, Kendrick Ferris is the coach. The running joke is that Kyle Pierce is never in the room when Kendrick actually trains, but he's listed as his coach. Okay. He actually wrote a paper that suggested that as a little weightlifter, you're developing most of your skill within a year, and then after that, your skill's not really improving. And so, at that point, the only way to get better is to get stronger. Yeah. Whatever the limiting factor is for you, you have to get better at. And so, for the snatch, it's gonna be strength. And for the ring muscle-up, strength is gonna be involved there, right? If you're not strong enough to pull your chest to the rings, like, you're gonna run out after a while. Right. Or if your grip strength is limiting, then that's gonna be an issue. So, yeah. I mean, I think that's super interesting and a nice salient point to tell people. But it's cool now. Like, you're crushing it. We're in the middle. We're at the end of the Open. Yeah. We have one more workout left. And you're sitting in the top 50, or 50-something worldwide. And in the region, you're, do you know what you're at? The floor? Yeah. Humblebrag.com. Yeah, so, it's awesome. And, uh, so you're gonna go to the California Regional again and do battle as an individual. Yeah. How would you say this year's Open has gone? It's been really fun. Yeah? Probably the most, I mean, I think the most fun I've had during an Open was last year when I was like... With a team, though. Um, and honestly, because there was absolutely no pressure on how I did... You know, it allowed me to just sit back and take it all in. I think the last workout of last year's Open was the first... So that was a thrusters and double unders one? Oh. Yeah. So that was... I hadn't done a thrusters since my surgery. I didn't do that one. No. I was like thrusters and double unders? Nah. Nah. Not for me. So I hadn't done the thrusters since my surgery. And, um, but I had, you know, I'd front squatted, um, I'd been doing double unders. I had pressed a little bit, not super heavy. Um, I was like, okay, I'll give this a shot. If it hurts or like something goes wrong, I'll stop. Like, it doesn't matter if I have a score. And I actually got to do that workout, which was awesome. It was cool. Yeah. Um, but yeah, this year's Open has been really cool. Mostly, uh, just because of the environment at OPEX. Um. New gym, new you. Yeah. Um, the coaching is phenomenal. And the fact that I get to do the Open against such elite level CrossFit females. I've never gotten to... I mean, Molly and I finally started doing Open workouts together, which was awesome. But I've never had so many. I feel like it's really hard to find gyms that are primarily female dominant when... Yeah. I mean, well in every sense of the word. Like... 100%. I mean, when I was a strength coach, I was the only female on staff. And I mean, it was... But yeah. Um. It's like a, it's like an actual, excellent like segue actually into talking about women in strength. Yeah. So you're, you have this platform. You have the check mark next to your name, which means you're legit. That's what it means. They only give it to people who are legit. I was really... So, funny story. I like woke up, I forget when that happened, but all of a sudden someone texted me and was like, this is so legit, you have a blue check mark. And I was like, what are you talking about? Yeah. And so I had no idea how I got it or where it came from. And I was like, I don't even know how you get these things. I assume that somebody was like trying to be Colleen. No, actually it's not that what happened. Oh, no? Red Bull got it for me. Yeah. So my friend Laura, she went to the Olympics, she has a Winter Olympics. She's a, she has like ice luge. And if it's not that, like if it's a different event within like the Winter Olympics, she's gonna kill me. I'm sorry. But anyway, so yeah, she's got like a, like 15,000 followers or something, which, but she got mecha. Right. I'm pretty sure the Olympics did that for her. Yeah. Which, so I need to either do something like legitimate to get the blue check or like actually We can try and like make a bunch of fake, you know, during, barrows. Yeah. Come on. I'm a doctor. Help me out. Instagram. Help me out. Um, no. So, so yeah, it's actually a perfect segue. So you're a female and you were in a male, I mean, you are in a male dominated sort of genre of the strength and fitness industry. And you did, you've been there as a coach now as an athlete. Um, and then all about as an influencer or whatever that word means. And I guess, you know, I wanted to get your take on what does it feel like to you having kind of transcended all these different roles as a female? I mean, how do you, how do you view, do you think it's getting better for women? Do you think it's the same? I think it's getting better. Um, I think it was, and maybe it was just because of the age I was when I was coaching. I found it definitely harder to be in that realm as a female, um, coaching versus being an athlete. So I was in charge of men's water polo, women's swimming, and then men's and women's diving. And women's swimming wasn't too bad because a lot of the girls I had swam with and I knew the coaches and I mean, it's female to female. It's not as intimidating. And they were a really respectful group and they understood like, Hey, I'm changing roles. I'm like, when we're doing this, I'm not your friend. So to speak, like, no, but, uh, so it was, we had a good rapport going and, um, but men's water polo was it, but it was a life changing experience. Okay. A hundred percent. So, um, it was the one team that, sorry, men's water polo, but I really didn't want I was like, please don't give me one's water polo. Why? Um, honestly, it just kind of scared me. I was like, I just don't think they're good. They've never had a female coach, whether it was, you know, on deck or in the weight room. I just don't know how they're going to. I mean, when you think about, you know, college water polo guys, 18 to 21, you're like, I don't know how well they're going to respond to a female, like telling them how to lift, which is, you know, I mean, still very more of a masculine type thing. I don't know. I just feel like they would, I was a little nervous how that would go. Um, and it's, how was it? So it's funny talking to some of them now because they're like, Oh yeah, we totally, when we heard your, our strength coach, we thought you were going to be a total pushover. Like we were going to walk all over you. We were like, Oh, we're going to get away with so much. And so I was really nervous because I think one of the things was I'm not one as a coach. I'm not a drill sergeant. I don't, I'm not a yeller. I don't, that's just not me. And I've seen women try to take on that role feeling like, Oh, because I'm a female, I have to come off as this like badass angry, like, and you can tell it's just not genuine. And I feel like athletes pick up on that. Do you think they're assuming more stereotypically masculine sort of traits? Yeah. They're like, well, I see the guy coaches doing that. So I'm going to do that. And I'm like, okay, I'm not going to win them over or get any buy in by that. Cause that's just not me. Um, so I just started coming up with, uh, whether it was workouts or like punishment, so to speak. I'm like, I'm not going to yell. I'm not going to scream. But like, if you don't do a, blast and cruise, like we're either running stairs or like, we're doing burpees or doing, and it was like, and you just had to, cause that's what the thing is they just needed to know that there were lines that you could not cross. Yeah. Um, and one of those memorable things was, uh, they're an offseason. So it was just time for me to just get to play with workouts and like have fun. And I was like, Oh, we're going to go to the basketball stadium. We're going to run stairs. Oh, wow. And I, I forget how many guys were on the team, but nine of them puked at the end. You're killing these people. Eight. Low key. Low key. Low key. But it was great because not like, I would never give a workout being like, I just want you to throw up. But it got that somewhat as a, the initial buy in to be like, okay, she's not messing around. Right. We need to listen. Um, yeah, I, I think, you know, it's, it's, it's also hard for me to talk on Being a guy, you know, people are like, you don't understand. You're not a woman. I'm like, no, that's true. But I've been in this industry for a long time. I find that women, I think, I want more of you guys in the industry participating, both as clients, coaches, and professionals. I want it to be less intimidating. I want less of an obstacle. I don't want to, I mean, I've had, even as recent as yesterday, this woman who was in my Instagram Live who was like, hey, I want to go to the gym, but I'm super intimidated. I'm like, what do you recommend I do? I'm like, I recommend you get over that. Go to the gym, not because it's going to be easier, not because I'm trying to minimize the fact that you feel intimidated, but just because we have these really effective tools that you can use in formal training, resistance training, in CrossFit, that you're not letting yourself have access to because of this intimidation thing. So I'd rather you be uncomfortable for a few days and get these benefits than have to shortchange yourself. I find that it almost seems to be like either a self-fulfilling prophecy, or maybe that's the wrong way to describe it. It's like if you feel intimidated and you feel like I can't be in this space or I'm not supposed to be in this space or this space is all dudes, then people will never end up fulfilling that potential that they have of being the subject matter expert, of being like, I know all of this stuff about coaching and programming and like, you know, I'm the expert. So you don't listen to me? Like, all right, cool. Like, I don't even waste my time. Yeah. So you're in an interesting position that you have all this knowledge and you can give it to somebody. If someone doesn't want to listen, you say, okay, somebody will. Right. And how do we get more people like you? How do we get more people who are in that position as an expert to be able to put that message out instead of look at my butt? Which, again, is fine. If you want to do that, like, that's fine. I'm not sexualizing it. I'm just saying that that is not something that I necessarily care about in strength and conditioning. I want you to be an expert on how to coach, on how to program, on how to get your message out. So we get more people training. Yeah. And more people, you know, I don't think are training because of the butt. Yeah. I mean, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. So how do we get more people, more women, to end up in this position as a subject matter expert versus just using the physical to get money or likes or whatever? Yeah. What are your thoughts on that? So I think it's a little bit specifically in strength and conditioning just because we're still not seeing, or I'm sure there are some, but very, very few when it comes to revenue sports, like football and basketball. Oh, so. You're just not seeing females in those roles. Sure. As coaches is what you're saying? Or as strength coaches. As strength coaches. Yeah. And, like, I loved, you know, seeing football train and learning more about it, but I knew that it would have, maybe not a miracle, but it would have been extremely hard for me to, you know, be like, I want to be the football strength coach one day. Right. You know what I mean? Do you think it's because you hadn't played football before? Well, I think that's a lot to do with it. And that's how they end up hiring people? It's like, oh, you were a football player. You understand the game. Yeah. No, I think it would be more difficult. And I think one day it could potentially be more of the norm. I don't know if that's soon. So I think in that field it's a little hard because I feel like females hit the ceiling a little bit quicker than female. Sure. There's less opportunities for them in the industry. Right. I mean, that's kind of why I ended that journey, which I may go back to eventually, but I just felt like I had capped out on what I wanted out of that job for the time being. And I didn't see really any place to grow in that particular job at the time. Sure. I think when it comes to just the fitness industry in general, I mean, I think there's a lot of room for females to be experts in their field. How do you have more women training? I mean, I feel like it's hard for me to speak on it because I wasn't necessarily, you know, intimidated to go into a CrossFit gym or into, but at the same time that experience, I mean, CrossFit as much as I like whine about workouts and like all that stuff, I mean, it gave me something so valuable. Like, I mean, working with female athletes, I mean, the last place they wanted to be was a weight room because of what they thought would make them look like. Sure. And I was that person for a long time. I was so scared of getting big and I hated being muscular. I mean, I would have family members be like after I was swimming, they're like, okay, so are you going to like lean out and get like smaller now? And I'm like, uh, like, as an aside, when we met, we were at San Jose Airport. And so from my perspective, right, except for being a POD, it's, I see black Reebok nano-6s with a gum sole, a Reebok backpack, and then traps. And I'm like, I bet that's calling us off. What's up? So, yeah, I was like, who's trap queen? We got to get her to some stuff. Yeah, well, yeah, so that's, yeah, that's definitely a prevailing sort of mindset. Or was, but I think it's getting better. This whole, the strong and sexy thing, as much as, you know, people want to like, you know, say being comfortable in your skin is sexy. I agree with that 100%. But the strong and sexy thing, and then also CrossFit, uh, influencing the mainstream and showing that women can be strong and, and, and be comfortable in their own bodies and everything. I think that's been a huge push towards getting more women to train. Yeah. And I'm 100% behind that. Right. Because I feel like the more women that we have training, the more women we have who are going to want to go into coaching and helping other women. And then it's just, it's like a positive feedback sort of thing. So we have role models, whether or not you would be a role model, you are, because you're in the public light and you're, you have this platform. Um, you know, it's a really unique thing. I think that you are bringing to the table. You have a coaching background, you have this unique story, and then you get to connect with hundreds of thousands of people on Instagram. And maybe one day you'll do an Instagram Live. I think, yeah. You can, you should make breakfast while you do an Instagram Live. That's the, that's the key. I do need to just, yeah. Just do it. Yeah. Yeah, just do one. And you say, hi, I'm calling for a watch. Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah. Let's ask me questions. Yeah. And then you can just turn it off. Right. That's fine. Yeah. Um, okay. You want to tell people who are, who's helping you out? Who's your, like, uh, this year? You got sponsors, you got coaches? Yeah. Um, so coaches, uh, my main coach is Mike Lee, and then James Fitzgerald is also helping us all out. Um, and honestly, I feel like I have to, uh, mention, I mean, Molly, she's not necessarily my coach, but, um. Yeah, yeah. She's going to be my coach at regionals. Oh, right. Or kind of an assistant coach. Sure, sure. Pregnant assistant coach. Yeah. Um, and pretty much Red Bull trifecta has been awesome with the food. Um, but yeah. And where can people find out more about you? Uh, on Instagram, just calling Fotch. Um, nothing fancy. Checkmark. Look for the checkmark. Yeah, checkmark. Yeah. Um, hopefully we'll venture into YouTube. The YouTube. The tubes. Yeah. It's a dangerous game. And then, uh, are people, are you taking, are you coaching people now at all online or doing anything like that? Uh, not right now, but that's definitely something that I would love to segue into more in the off-season stuff, especially with, I feel like, recently have learned a lot more with nutrition and just figuring all that stuff out, so. So stay tuned. And Colleen's going to be an online coach. And if the clothes goes up, she happens to do that, we'll link her stuff. Yeah. So, hey, thanks for coming to the hotel room and doing it. It's always weird. I don't remind the hotel room. Yeah. Okay, so you get the honor. You get to clap. What? You get to clap. Yeah. Hi, I'm Jordan Feigenbaum. I'm Jordan underscore Barbell Medicine. Uh, I have a shirt on. No one understands why. I can't take my shirt off. I'm on your own shirts. I can't confirm. Do you want me to, sorry that we can edit this out, but do you want me to talk to you or talk to, as I'm answering? Or does it matter? It doesn't matter. I'm going to zoom in really close on your face. Oh, okay. So you're not actually in this. Like, really close. I just like that I have that on video. So the whole B-roll is just going to be clapping. It's going to be a loop. It's going to be a gym. Oh, my God. Thank you.