 sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer sanitizer process and maybe uncover some clinical pearls along the way. I have to ask, you know, as I do in this case, are you ready to enter the eight-sided octagon of pain? Wait, what? Different podcast. Yeah, I'm ready, man. Let's do it. All right. Dr. Austin Baraki, second most handsome doctor in North America. Here is your first case. A-50-year-old black American former athlete, he was a former college football player, presents to the emergency department with severe lower leg pain after a, quote, intense calf workout. Now, he has a history of type 2 diabetes. His hemoglobin A1c, which measures his blood sugar over the last few months, is unavailable. He also has a history of hypertension, chronic kidney disease with unknown staging, gout, and he thinks that he was at one point diagnosed with, quote, sickle cell trait. He's never had any limitations in sport or activity before, but thought he might have had this a few weeks ago after he, and I quote, more than doubled the weight he used in his calf raise exercises. Talk about progressive loading. It resolved without incident after a few weeks, but he came to the emergency department this time because the pain is severe, and it was only on his right side and not on both sides. He denies any sort of recent travel, any immobilization, or smoking history. So before we go further, I'm going to let the listeners in on your thought process here. Sure. So I'll take a familiar approach by this point of ignoring most of the detail that you gave me, and I will frame this. Based on what I heard, it sounds like a second episode of severe unilateral leg pain that onset after exertion. Is that accurate? Yes, sir. Yep. Okay. And so when approaching the symptom of unilateral leg pain, meaning just one leg is affected, the first thought is going to be, was there any obvious trauma that we need to think about? But aside from that, if we don't, then a way that we can organize it is just based on the anatomy in the leg. What are the structures that are there? And those include the bony apparatus, all the bones of the leg and the joints, the osteoarticular component. Then we have the muscles and soft tissues, throughout the entire leg. We have the nerves that supply the leg, and we have the vessels that supply the leg. And so each of those can have a unique subset of pathologies that can affect them. When I add in, you know, some of this other background history that this patient has, things like diabetes, you know, what could that do, for example? What other ideas does that raise, bring it, bring up to mind? Patients with diabetes are at higher risk of having atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. And so you can have, just like in the same way you can have, you know, atherosclerosis affecting your heart, leading to a heart attack. You can have atherosclerosis in your legs, leading to a quote unquote leg attack. That is an example of something that can happen. There are other less common things that can happen with diabetes. There's something called diabetic, like myonecrosis that you can get in the leg, really direct, you know, or pyomyositis, you know, infections involving muscles in the legs. I wouldn't necessarily expect those to onset right after and, you know, exercise session. But those are other things that diabetes kind of does to my, my thought process there. The high blood pressure, just another kind of cardiovascular risk factor. So that would, you know, clue me in more so to the vascular system as a possibility. The chronic kidney disease, same thing, increases risk of vascular disease and a few other, and a few other considerations there. Gout is a condition that can generate massive inflammatory responses when it involves particular joints. It can involve most commonly the big toe of the foot, but it can involve other joints as well. It can, I've even seen cases of spinal gout leading to severe inflammatory back pain. So it can be, it can cause inflammation and pain, you know, essentially anywhere. It can be a masquerader, so to speak. And then sickle cell trait, we've talked about this on one of our other mystery cases where we had a young patient who had exercise collapse associated with sickle cell trait and sickle cell disease is something that can be more likely to cause, you know, severe pain episodes when the cells sickle and lead to, you know, impairment in oxygenated blood flow to a particular area. You don't typically see that as much in patients with sickle cell trait, but we did see an example of a complication of that in one of our previous cases. So those are the, that's the ways that the background history you gave me can kind of prioritize some things over and over others, but really, you know, with leg pain, I'm breaking it down into those big compartments that I mentioned, osteoarticular, muscles and soft tissues, vascular and the, and the nerves. And so when I get more detail, I want to know firstly, was there any trauma? And then when I examine the patient, I want to get a sense of like, where's this pain really localized? Is it in the, you know, thigh, front, back, calf, and then check their pulses, see how they're doing from a, you know, blood flow standpoint, as we had another case previously of exercise related compartment syndrome, or there are other vascular complications that can impair blood flow to the leg, leading to severe pain. And then just look for evidence of inflammation. That would be kind of the preliminary exam before we started to get into imaging and other sorts of testing. I like it. Thank you for that. All right. Well, let's move on to the exam. So you walk into the room, the patient appears comfortable sitting upright in bed. His vital signs, as you note, are within normal limits. So you do a focused physical exam on the right lower extremity. And a physical exam was significant for pain with contraction of the right calf muscle and also with plantar flexion of the right foot. The, for whatever reason, the emergency department did not actually obtain any labs prior to you coming down and seeing this patient, but they did do a lower extremity ultrasound that revealed a clot in his right peroneal and posterior tibial veins. So because you're such a great diagnostician, you would call that. Sounds like we got a deep venous thrombosis. That's right. Yes. All right. So he was diagnosed with a deep venous thrombosis. He was started on Lovenox, which is an oxoparine and bridged to warfarin for six months. However, the case gets a little more interesting. During this period, the patient turned up to the emergency department six more times with various complaints, finally admitted on the sixth time. At this point, he complained of chest pain, hip pain, and shoulder pain. It's a long case. So I'm going to simplify and see if Dr. Baraki can get to the correct underlying pathology here. So let's simplify. But before we do, now this would be considered maybe a bounce back, you know, because the patient was in, was seen, was evaluated, diagnosed, and treated, but came back a number of times shortly thereafter requiring another admission. When you get the same patient to bounce back, either for, in one case, you know, if this was the same thing, oh, I got right lower extremity pain again, you know, that's one way to, you know, maybe you go down one pathway, but these are different complaints. So how do you kind of think about that? Yeah. Anytime I have a patient who comes back, particularly in short order for the same thing, I view that as a massive red flag. And I basically start over from the very beginning because most of the cases of, I won't say most, but many cases of like missed diagnoses or delayed diagnoses that lead to bad outcomes are from patients who kept coming in for the same thing and they got brushed off or got misdiagnosed, you know, the first time and people didn't really like start over or think harder about it on subsequent visits. So if he keeps coming back for things, yeah, I'm starting over each time, thinking harder and harder, broadening my search, sending more esoteric, you know, forms of evaluation and imaging and things like that to try to get a sense of what's going on. So for that subsequent visit, you know, not unusual for somebody with acute calf pain to be diagnosed with a deep vein thrombosis or a blood clot. You'd still want to, if you could get a sense of maybe, was there something that provoked it? You know, we typically look at things like immobilization and travel and, you know, histories of cancer and recent surgeries and things like that. But sometimes there's not any obvious cause for why somebody has a clot like that, which can raise suspicion for, you know, clotting type disorders that can leave people prone to those sorts of things. That can happen in somebody around the age of 50. Some, you know, often it can, you know, usually manifest a bit earlier in life, but not necessarily. So that's something that's in the back of my mind. If he keeps coming back for multiple visits, I do want to obviously have a sense of, well, what is he coming back for? And what evaluation was done for those kind of other complaints? It's not unusual for somebody again, with overt actual sickle cell disease to experience issues with, you know, various pains across the body or coming in simultaneously with pain in the chest or the abdomen or the joints or the hips or the back, or, you know, that's a very common manifestation of sickle cell disease. But since that's not what this patient apparently has, although you said maybe it was a questionable history of sickle cell trait, I'd want to actually see their electrophoresis and know what do they actually have? Do they have it or not? And then getting a sense of like with these other, you know, repeated visits that they keep coming in for, what evaluation is done? Are we finding other clots in these other areas? Are we finding that he's taking, you know, his blood thinner, if he's taking warfarin, that's kind of a challenging medicine to take correctly and to maintain, you know, adequate levels of. Is he doing a good job on that? And he's still clotting through that. That would be a pretty concerning sort of finding. Or is he not taking it the way he should? And he's developing clots while, you know, if he's missed some doses here and there, in which case, I'm still curious as to like, why is he so prone to clotting? So that's kind of where my mind is right now. But we definitely want a little bit more information about like, what were all these other visits for and what was found on those? Yeah. So like I said, he came back six total times, a number of them were for chest pain. And then the most recent ones before this admission were for hip pain, bilateral hip pain. So I'll take you through just a brief kind of summary. With the chest pain, they were obviously concerned for additional clots. And so they were testing for pulmonary embolism and they did at least three VQ scans basically say, hey, is this person getting enough oxygen into their blood? Are there clots there that are, you know, blocking off certain areas of the lung, for example? And on the three VQ scans that he had, they suggested a low likelihood of pulmonary embolism. Also had a cardiac stress test, which showed no signs of ischemia. And he had a chest CT done that showed parenchymal opacities on the right lower and middle lobes that were apparently new compared to a previous imaging that was available. No shortness of breath. However, with the hip pain, they repeated the ultrasound for DVTs, these deep venous thrombosis. Those are all normal. Subsequently, he had a hip MRI during this admission that demonstrated avascular necrosis bilaterally. And then with the left shoulder pain, this occurred in most recent admission was one of the other reasons he came in. He had left shoulder pain that occurred after a heavy bench press. And they were chalking this up to a rotator cuff tear in the emergency department and effectively did not further work that up. So to summarize, this patient has had a DVT, at least one that we know of, bilateral osteonecrosis of the hip, also has a history of kidney disease and new radio opacities on a chest CT. So in learning about all of that and hearing all of that, what would be your next sort of diagnostic test that you'd want to see? I would like to reiterate my preference to see a hemoglobin electrophoresis, as I mentioned in the last clue, because all of this are things that we see in actual sickle cell disease. They can be prone to manifestations in the chest, sickle cell type complications in the chest, an emergency scenario called acute chest syndrome is one that I deal with a couple times a year and is a big deal. The chronic kidney disease, very common in patients with sickle cell disease. They can have issues in basically getting oxygen to the most innermost part of their kidney, into the renal medulla, and that can lead to some complications there. Osteonecrosis of the hips is, you know, if you were to tell me separate from this case, I have a patient with bilateral AVN of the hips, I'm like, were they on prednisone for a long time, or do they have sickle cell disease? Would be my first two questions for somebody who has those things. And the shoulder pain may have been related to a bench press or may have been related to a splenic pathology, because they can have spleen related issues as well with some referred symptoms, although that'd be, this would be a bit delayed, a bit late in life for that sort of a manifestation. But I'm quite suspicious that this patient has actual sickle cell disease at this point. So that'd probably be something I'd really like to see as well as a CBC and making sure they're not having hemolysis and stuff like that. Yeah. Interestingly about the avascular necrosis, which just for the listeners at home, if you've never heard that before, just reduced blood flow or lack of blood flow to the femur. And so you could get, you know, actual necrosis or death of the head of the femur, basically the simplest way to describe that. Now, apparently he was taking steroids, glucocorticoids for his gout treatment. And so potentially have two things going on there, you know, if it was sickle cell, plus also taking steroids. Now, his blood smear, they got a smear, no sickling, but there were some folded, quote, PETA or clamshell cells and an abundance of target cells, which look like targets due to there's an increase in membrane, red blood cell membrane compared to the contents. So it's much thicker than a normal red blood cell. Now, hemoglobin analysis and electrophoresis revealed 52% hemoglobin S and 48% hemoglobin C. Any thoughts here now with some additional information? Yeah, we're in the world of what's called hemoglobinopathy. There are a lot of these things and getting really down into the weeds in them is both beyond the scope of this podcast and to some extent beyond my own scope of expertise, but recognizing this as probably a case of hemoglobin SC disease, which is pretty uncommon, not something I would see day to day, but because of the amount of hemoglobin S that he has, the manifestations that we're seeing are pretty similar to what we would see in actual sickle cell disease where they have SS, not SC. And this is just a genetic mutation that affects your hemoglobin, which limits how much oxygen you can carry and deliver to the various tissues of your body. And so these manifestations are coming from basically inadequate oxygenated blood flow to these areas, making your hip bones happy, unhappy, leading to other issues with blood flow, increasing risk of clots, chronic kidney disease, all the things that he had. So the most common cause for that collection of symptoms is sickle cell disease. However, sickle cell disease falls under this umbrella of what we call hemoglobinopathies, which include things like hemoglobin SC disease and many others that we, that I couldn't even list off all of them for you, but I recognize the syndrome, which is the important part here. Yeah. Yeah. And that was the major set of pearls that I kind of wanted to talk about that these findings, there are common causes to everything that he's had. So for example, the chest pain, the calf pain, shoulder pain, hip pain, and then there are like hemoglobinopathy or in this case, sickle cell related causes. So for example, the chest pain, you think about like a musculoskeletal, cause a rib fracture, asthma, something like that. But in this case, it could be acute chest syndrome from sickle cell disease, the calf pain, you think, oh, well, you just, you know, went to town on a, apparently a calf focused workout, which, you know, the appropriateness of that notwithstanding, you could think, oh, muscle strain or maybe a tendinopathy for some reason. But in this case with sickle cell or in this sickle cell SC, a lower extremity DVT, same thing with the shoulder pain. Oh, rotator cuff injury, labral injury, musculoskeletal strain, biceps tendon injury, or in this case, upper extremity DVT, had they tried to rule that out. And hip pain, same thing. You said, oh, well, maybe it's just a tendinopathy or some sort of musculoskeletal related cause could be just arthritis. But in this case, avascular necrosis of the hips. And you're like, well, is this due to the hemoglobinopathy, the issue with the red blood cells, or is it due to the steroids or both potentially? Turns out both in him. Yeah. Yeah. And so the, the, the pearls here are like, you know, if you have a client, um, if you know, if you're a fitness professional and they have a number of pains kind of like this, it doesn't mean that it's likely they have something else going on, but probably worth an investigation. If this is something that you're continuing to deal with and, and can't quite find, like we talk about all the time with pain and rehab stuff, an entry point or sort of suitable, uh, uh, progression within that. If, if it's, if you're really scratching your head and you're like, I must be missing something at that point, I think you're like, uh, probably should refer to a higher level of care for evaluation. Yeah, I agree. Uh, you know, I think that most of the like peripheral pains that this, this guy had in his leg and his shoulder, you know, in his, in his hips, those are all things that you could rationalize as, as something else. And, oh, let's do some tempo work or something like that. It's like, well, osteonecrosis doesn't get better with tempo work. So, uh, so, uh, you know, the, the collection of these things, the recurrent nature, and then definitely once you start getting into the world of chest pain, I mean, that's not something that is in the scope of a fitness professional. So, um, yeah, move that one along. Yeah. Yeah. Agreed. You know, so this also brought up another question I had, I kind of want to get your take on this with full, full admission that a lot of this is going to be speculative. There's some evidence that I pulled on this, but, but just, you know, kind of curious to wrap about this a little bit. Do we think that there's an increased risk of deep venous thrombosis with exercise just at baseline? Um, you know, sickle cell aside, just like there's maybe some potential mechanism of vascular microtrauma with exercise, plus the increase in blood pressure, plus maybe some pooling, so venous pooling, blood pooling, uh, during the static, uh, or isometric portions of exercise. Do we think that there's maybe an increased risk of, uh, DVT formation in exercise? What do you think about that? I'm not aware of data on this. There, there, there may be some, but, um, I would not expect it to be, uh, uh, a significant increase in risk. Blood clotting is incredibly complicated and is like, uh, most medical students nightmare when they learn about both primary hemostasis. So how you form a platelet plug to, to deal with some kind of microtrauma or macrotrauma, and then how the coagulation cascade then comes in to stabilize your, your platelet, uh, uh, plug to form a full fibrin clot, and then how that gradually gets broken down as the, you know, area of injury heals and things like that, as well as like all the pathologic versions of that cascade where it can get activated inappropriately, for example, and lead to clotting when you shouldn't clot. And so it is in normal physiology and healthy folks, um, a very finely tuned and well-regulated system with a balance between factors that tend to promote clotting, as well as factors that tend to prevent clotting. And then if you do clot factors that tend to stabilize it, but also factors that tend to break it down. So it's this super delicate balance, you know, this very dynamic system. All of us are forming clots all the time and breaking them down all the time. Um, they don't have any significant, you know, consequence or symptom to them. And so when you have a more significant traumatic issue, traumatic injury, or a disease state that leads to, you know, activation of this cascade, then the balance can get tipped one way or another. And you could, you know, be more prone to clotting or in a lot of the patients that I see also might be more prone to bleeding. And so, uh, it's really something that has to be taken on a case by case basis. I wouldn't be surprised if, for example, you looked at, you know, what are some post-exercise changes in, you know, blood levels of certain, you know, I don't know, platelets or clot, you know, clotting factors or, or endogenous anticoagulants, the more blood thing. And there might be some changes in those things, but I would be kind of skeptical that you could extrapolate like, oh, this level increased by a bit after exercise. Therefore you are more prone to clotting because again, this system is super dynamic and like intertwined and interrelated. Um, but if there is evidence on this, I'd be interested to hear it. It certainly would still not be enough to make me say, oh, well, you shouldn't exercise just because you have a risk of a clot. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Well, unfortunately there, there are no randomized controlled trials, uh, that investigate the effect of exercise on the incidence or occurrence of a DVT, deep venous thrombosis. However, there is evidence that shows that physical activity levels are inversely correlated with not only the severity of a deep venous thrombosis, a clot, uh, but also the survival. So the most people, the more people exercise in general, the reduced severity of the clot, uh, and the symptoms that they have, and also their better survival. Uh, there's observational data shows that those who exercise the most have a reduced risk of developing a blood clot, which is, uh, compared to those who have a relatively infrequent exercise, uh, the magnitude of that, uh, benefit seems to be due to the amount of physical activity that they do, which is kind of what we see a lot of health promoting effects of exercise. The more exercise you do, the bigger benefit that you get. And this kind of makes sense because there, while there are a number of risk factors that go into that very complex clotting, bleeding, homeostatic sort of system, uh, high blood pressure, uh, is a big one. So is, uh, uh, obesity, uh, systemic inflammation, um, and a number of other things that exercise actually directly modifies like lipid levels as well, for example. So in general, I would suspect that in a quote, normal individual, somebody without sickle cell trait or sickle cell disease, uh, that exercise is unlikely to increase the risk of a clot. Uh, and then if you do have one, you're probably going to fare better. I think I feel comfortable saying that the more interesting thing here to me has to do with two separate questions. One has to do with those with either sickle cell trait or disease. And then also those, uh, who are receiving anticoagulation. So I think because sickle cell disease and sickle cell trait are relatively common, particularly in active populations, young, active, uh, black populations, you know, this could affect a hundred thousand, uh, adults in America alone. For example, we probably should be routinely asking these individuals if they know that they have sickle cell trait or sickle cell anemia, like during an exercise, like a, an intake survey, just so you can be aware in the case of those with sickle cell trait that would raise your awareness for like, Hey, exertional rhabdomyolysis is much more common in these individuals. Same thing with that ECAST, uh, you know, the, uh, exertional collapse associated with sickle cell trait. And in those was actual sickle cell, the pain crises, like just having the knowledge that those are both risks. So asking about them, having them in the back of your head would help guide management, um, and, and, and maybe raise vigilance towards, uh, uh, you know, recognizing those early on rather than like letting them go being like, eh, it's probably nothing, you know, which in most cases is probably true, but, uh, having that would certainly change the, that knowledge would certainly change the calculus for me. What do you, what do you think about that? Yeah, I think that's fair. And there are also, you know, other considerations, for example, in patients with sickle cell disease, like if you're going up to altitude or something and the amount of oxygen in the air around you is going to be lower, like that is going to increase your risk of some complications. If you're going to be like going swimming for exercise in an ice cold pool, and your vessels are going to be all clamped down and, you know, there's some other risks associated with that. So it's definitely a complex condition. It's, you know, we're not in a situation where I would, it wouldn't make any sense to say, well, because I'm worried about developing a deep vein thrombosis or a clot that you should be less active. That would make no, no sense. Um, but there are some, some, this is one of those handful of, uh, situations that we allude to sometimes where there actually are some unique considerations when it comes to exercise. Yeah. The second question I alluded to, uh, was the anticoagulation. So people who've had a clot or another reason that they're on an anticoagulant medication, you know, should they be cleared to exercise? And if so, should there be restrictions? And, you know, I'll be the first to admit when you look at evidence here and guidelines here, it is not satisfactory, meaning that you would prefer to have robust data sets and a number of guidelines that are based on existing evidence that say, yeah, here's what you do. Here are the risks that we know about. Here are the risks that we don't quite yet have established, but just something to keep in mind. But when you go into the research, it's mostly just people hand wringing and giving their opinion, which is unfortunate, you know, especially because of the potential benefits from not only exercise, regular participation in exercise on health, wellbeing, et cetera, but also in sport in general, right? Imagine this individual, instead of being 50, if he was 20, you know, and he was playing college football because it now is on anticoagulation therapy, like contact sports, uh, pretty much out. Although there's some recommendation to maybe split the dosing, intermittent dosing of the anticoagulant, uh, to be, to occur after play has taken place and maybe that's safer. But, you know, based, that's based on data that, where, when there are low, relatively low levels of the active drug in the system, that the clotting risk is not actually, uh, increased, uh, a bleeding risk rather is, is not actually increased, which would be the problem with traumatic sports. So yeah, I don't know. What's your, what's your thought on that? Yeah. I mean, I put lots of patients on blood thinners and on the few occasions where they ask me about exercise, I do not restrict them from exercise. Although I do, do typically advise against like super high contact, high impact sports. That's just based on a physiologic guess. That's not based on data to, um, what you suggested, uh, that is a, that is not something that you could broadly say, because that's going to depend a ton on the half-life of the drug. And so if some, if the patient was like the one in this case on warfarin, I mean, warfarin lasts many days in your system. So whether you take it immediately after exercise or before makes literally no difference. There are other drugs that only last, you know, like 12 ish hours or something. And so if you timed it, that you were going to take it 12 hours before your practice and then practice. And then immediately after your practice, uh, I suppose you could, but that's still, that's just made up and, and, and you're still balancing, um, that dosing adjustment against like how, how, uh, high risk of, of, uh, of a patient is this for developing clots. There are certain types of clotting disorders where if a patient misses a single dose of their blood thinner, or if they're, you know, if they're on warfarin, their levels drop just a little bit. Um, I've had some of these really scary situations like antiphospholipid syndrome and things like that, where they suddenly just start having like huge strokes if they drop even a little bit. And so it's really a blood blood, the use of blood thinners needs to be a pretty individualized decision, both in the context of, you know, what kind of clot, how severe, how life-threatening, was there a clear provoking factor? Was there not? But even if in, in almost any of those, if I'm putting somebody on one of those medicines and they say, can I exercise? I'm not restricting them outside of advising them against like high trauma, high impact sorts of activities. Don't ride dirt bikes. That's the, that's I think just broadly good advice, regardless of what kind of stuff. Fair enough. Yeah. So link to some of that evidence in the description below. All right. So you're one for one. Batting a thousand today.