 I'm Leah L-Lex, and I'm a barbell medicine coach, I get to do a coach's corner for you all, and we're going to talk about the deadlift today. Today is going to be the lockout. overview, a full deadlift lockout has to include your knees locked, your hips open, and your shoulders behind the bar. First, lacking out completely. You need to have your knees locked out. Soft knees are going to get you red lights in the competition and they do mark an incomplete deadlift. You stand up, your knees are no longer in flexion. The second thing that you also need to lock out would be your hips. So in order to complete the deadlift, you must actually open your hips. If your hips are even slightly closed, the lift is not done. And we see this a lot in a working set. People will cut their reps slightly short and keep their hips closed at the top. To sum this up briefly, in order to finish your deadlift pull, you need to have your knees locked out and your hips need to be extended. You basically want to be thinking about standing up tall. Often in order to make sure your hips are locked out, I will cue a lifter to squeeze their glutes at the very top. You do not want to be in a posterior pelvic tilt. You should be standing up in a normal anatomical position. In training and as a coach, I want everyone to be practicing full lockout at the top, meaning that your chest is proud. So a proud chest would be thoracic extension. Your shoulders are straight, not hunched forward, not pulled back unnecessarily. There is no shrug in the deadlift. So at a meet, it is possible for you to get three white lights, have that legal lift without thoracic extension, but you lean back and your shoulders are in fact behind the bar. But again, in training, you're going to be working on standing up straight, hips are locked out, your knees are locked out. You have completed each deadlift rep for your successful training. In training, we will be working on reaching the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top of the top