нене – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – there's been a lot of hype around zone two cardio, for example. And I think that most people do not appreciate the limitations we have at actually identifying, yep, this is definitively zone two. And maybe it's importance. And so because people just say, oh, zone two, it's this heart rate, for example. I'm like, oh, for everybody? And there's no consideration of like individual characteristics. Are you sure? How confident are you in that? They're like, ah, I'm pretty confident. I'm like, okay, maybe you should adjust that. All right. So let's talk about some background information here. In conditioning, intensity refers to the metabolic demand of the activity. Now, whether expressed in absolute or relative terms, intensity determines the nature of the physiological stress and individual experiences during exercise, which influences the type of fitness and health adaptations obtained from exercise. For these reasons, exercise prescription should consider intensity based on the expected physiological stress and metabolic demand of the activity for the individual. Now, the current exercise guidelines recommend that all adults complete some combination of at least 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity conditioning each week, where moderate intensity conditioning exercise correlates to 3.0 to 5.9 metabolic equivalents and vigorous intensity activities are greater than six metabolic equivalents. For completeness, the latest adult compendium of physical activity classifies sedentary activities as 1.0 to 1.5 metabolic equivalents, which just for those listening at home, that means there's a gap. What happens between 1.6 and 2.9 metabolic equivalents? What is that? Just a no man's land? No one knows. Right. Is that just light intensity? I guess so, based on the current compendium. So in a research setting where oxygen consumption can be directly measured, yeah, METs are probably a suitable instrument for characterizing intensity of an activity. They can also be used in conjunction with exercise duration to calculate total conditioning exercise load in metabolic MET minutes, with the current guidelines targeting a minimum of 500 to 1,000 MET minutes per week for public health. Outside of these settings, however, I don't think either of us would be on board with using MET-based prescriptions. They're often unpredictable between individuals due to differences in fitness levels, age, medical concerns, training experience, economy of movement, genetics, and more. So for example, cycling at 10 miles an hour does not result in the same physiological stress in a young elite cyclist compared to an untrained older individual. And that's very intuitive, although there is a study that actually measured that. You can read about that in the show notes below. I linked it there. Lastly, metabolic equivalents are not easy to understand or monitor by patients or physicians. I think if you ask a physician who's, you know, not familiar with exercise prescription what a metabolic equivalent is, what it stands for, they'd be like, I don't know. Something that happens on a stress test is probably the answer that you would get from them. 100%. So there are a number of other parameters that correlate with exercise intensities, like heart rate, blood lactate levels, oxygen consumption rate, and respiration rate, breathing rate, to name a few. And so we can think about the intensity of conditioning exercise to be this continuum ranging from rest to maximal with light, moderate, and vigorous intensity exercise in between. There are a number of thresholds on this continuum that may be useful for exercise prescription. So the first threshold that I want to discuss is the transition between non-exercise physical activity and exercise. Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by the musculoskeletal system that results in energy expenditure above the basal metabolic rate, whereas exercise, in contrast, is a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, goal-directed towards improving physical fitness. Most activities of daily life would count as physical activity, not exercise. It has been suggested that exercise activities start at about 50% of someone's VO2 max or 60% of their maximum heart rate. For the five-zone model of conditioning, right, where zone two has kind of gotten all this hype, this would be the start of zone one. So below this exercise intensity would just be like regular physical activity, activities, daily life, but it wouldn't count as exercise. Now the next threshold is the aerobic threshold. And when determined by blood lactate levels, this is sometimes called lactate threshold number one, which occurs at exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise to about two millimoles per liter. Lactate levels are otherwise stable because the body is producing and processing it or clearing it at a steady state. Now when measured by respiratory rates, so how fast someone's breathing, this is called the first ventilatory threshold since breathing rate has increased compared to resting values. Typical heart rates at this point range between like 65 to 80% of maximal heart rate, although this can vary significantly between individuals. And zone two in the five-zone model is right before this threshold. That's important. Remember that. So right before the aerobic threshold, that's the top of zone two. Once you pass the aerobic threshold, it's probably more zone three in that five-zone model. The final threshold that I want to talk about on this continuum going from rest to maximal intensity conditioning exercise is the anaerobic threshold, which occurs at an exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise even higher as the body is unable to process it quickly enough for removal to keep it at a steady state. Again, when measured by blood lactate levels, this point is also often called lactate threshold number two, and lactate levels are often four millimoles per liter or higher. This point is also called the second ventilatory threshold when measured by the respiratory exchange ratio, which measures the amount of carbon dioxide produced compared to oxygen consumed. Typical heart rates here at this threshold are about 85 to 95% of maximal heart rate, which again varies significantly between individuals. Exercise performed below this anaerobic threshold, but above aerobic threshold, that represents vigorous intensity exercise, whereas exercise above this anaerobic threshold would be considered maximal intensity. So for your five-zone model people, zones three and zone four are below the anaerobic threshold, but above the aerobic threshold, and zone five is above the anaerobic threshold. Just to summarize, exercise starts at around 60% of maximum heart rate. Below that's just like regular non-exercise physical activity. This is the start of zone one in the five-zone model. Moderate intensity exercise is below the aerobic threshold, but above the threshold when exercise begins. This is zones one and two in the five-zone model. Vigorous intensity exercise is above the aerobic threshold, but below the anaerobic threshold. Again, this is zones three and four in the five-zone model, and then maximal intensity exercise is above the anaerobic threshold. This is zone five. Does that sound, you on board with me so far? Tracking. Tracking. All right. So how does all of this apply to zone training, specifically zone two? Well, there's a bunch of different models here for exercise intensity. There's a three-zone, right, light, moderate, vigorous, or heavy. There's a five-zone model. We just kind of talked about that in some detail. There are even seven and eight-zone models. Now, here's the important thing. There are no agreed-upon definitions or cut points for any of these things, which makes it challenging to not only discuss, right, because what I call zone two, somebody else might call zone three, and there's just no like agreed-upon consensus here. Other than maybe those aerobic and anaerobic thresholds, those seem to be pretty well agreed upon. But as far as how all the zones kind of shake out relative to those thresholds, yeah, that's more controversial at this time. But all the hype around zone two training, as well as this current paper, uses the five-zone model, and we'll focus on that. Now, using the five-zone model, zone two is considered the aerobic endurance zone. It's typically done continuously, so interval training typically doesn't occur here. It's usually in that RPE three to six range if using a 10-point RPE scale, and it's, again, below the aerobic threshold. With respect to heart rate, zone two is likely somewhere in the 70 to 80% max heart range, maximum heart rate range, but there are large error bars on either side of that, because individuals vary greatly, which is what this paper focuses on. To summarize, this study aimed at analyzing the extent of variability in the most commonly applied reference values for heart rate, blood lactate, and breathing rate for zone two conditioning. They basically took 50 experienced cyclists, 30 women, 20 men, and they had them visit the lab twice. Now, all of this testing was done on bikes, and they basically measured a number of physiological variables that have been used to define zone two intensity in various different research settings. So, for example, they measured, hey, look, what was the power output at 72% of maximum heart rate? What was it at 82% of the maximum heart rate? Thinking that 72% to 82%, that's zone two for sure. They measured, what was the power output at blood lactate levels of 1.5 millimoles per liter, or 2 millimoles per liter, or 2.5 millimoles per liter. Again, trying to figure out, like, what's the power output here? Is it consistent between these different variables? They measured the power output at 65% of VO2 peak. Now, I say VO2 peak, and people are like, is that VO2 max? It's slightly different because it is the maximum VO2 that was obtained in a particular test, but it's not maybe the maximum VO2 value that someone could ever achieve in any test. So, it's slightly different but related. They also measured what was the power output at the first ventilatory threshold? What about the power output at the maximum fat oxidation rate? Because, in theory, in a perfect world, all of these variables would be pretty close to one another. They'd all have a similar sort of power output because they're all used to define the same thing. They would also be relatively similar between individuals for prescriptive purposes, meaning like a blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter would be at a similar VO2 peak, heart rate, and relative intensity between individuals. Because if you're going to prescribe zone 2 training, it should be generalizable. Do you want to predict the results of this, Dr. Baraki? I think it'll be the hallmark of human biology, which involves lots of variation. Huge variation between individuals for all of these physiological variables. So, for example, blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter, which again is mostly accepted to be that sort of aerobic threshold, right? And so just above the top of zone 2, that had an average of an 83% max heart rate. That's what it correlated to. But it ranged from about 75% to 93% of people's heart rate max. So, if someone had a target heart rate, that may not correlate accurately with a blood lactate level of 2. Now, which is better? A blood lactate level of 2, is that more accurately definitive of zone 2, or is a heart rate more accurate for defining zone 2? At a 72% max heart rate, well, that ranged from 35% peak power to 80% peak power. So, wildly different intensities. If someone had a target wattage to be in zone 2, for example, their heart rate could be all over the place. So, which is better? A target power output, right? Which is like weight on the bar? Or is it heart rate, which is like a more... Bar velocity. Yeah, right. Exactly. And this continues for basically all variables. The percent VO2 peak ranged from 55% to 72%, depending on which other variable was being measured. The power output ranged from 125 to 224 watts for all different... These all different zone 2 criteria within the same group. And again, these are all trained cyclists. So, it's not like you're taking untrained individuals. So, my interpretation of this is that there's huge variance in how people sort of respond to a certain zone 2 prescription. And so, how you define zone 2 influences how zone 2 training is executed, which likely impacts the training adaptations that people are going to get. And I don't know which one is better for the desired training adaptations. Is it better to use a heart rate? Is it better to use a blood lactate? Is it better to use a wattage target? I don't know. But when you look at like endurance athletes, broadly speaking, especially highly competitive ones, their training intensity distribution is about 80-20. Now, granted, there's some variance here depending on the sport, the person, and whatever, and the phase of the season. But generally speaking, 80% of their work, the bulk of their work is done in that zone 1, zone 2 zone, those zones, lower intensity type stuff, whereas 20% is higher intensity. There is some evidence that doing more zone 2 work compared to zone 1 work might be better for performance. So, you theoretically could make a hedge that I'd really want to find out what zone 2 is. So, I could do most of my low intensity conditioning there rather than zone 1. But I don't know how to prescribe it. Yeah. It's like by one variable, you could be quote unquote in zone 2. And then if you measured another variable, it might be wildly outside of it. And so, which one do you prioritize or pick? You could make an argument of just like pick one and stick with it. You could make an argument of like measure all of them and see how well they correlate. And then to the extent that you have tight correlations, then maybe you can run with some combination of these things. I don't know what the pros or cons of this would be outside of just like if you have some consistent tool that you are using and you are progressing as evidenced by that metric over time. Meaning that like, it's like in strength training, if we prescribe a lift at a 7 RPE and the weight you can lift at a 7 RPE goes up, then you have demonstrated some progress. Whereas if you switch, you know, your outcome measures, then you don't know as much whether you have progressed. So, some measure of consistency with which tool you are using might be the more important variable than which one you pick, given that they may or may not correlate in an individual person. Yeah. I mean, I actually think that the analogy to resistance training is perfect here. So, like, if you're trying to prescribe zone two conditioning, it's the same as trying to prescribe a particular exertion during resistance training. So, a couple different ways to do it. You could use tests, some sort of test to come up with like a quote functional threshold for conditioning. It'd be like equivalent to like a one rep max test, right? With lifting. So, this functional threshold, one of the tests that we prefer is this field test. Get on a bike, treadmill, whatever, you go 20 minutes hard. And the idea is to what is the maximum pace you can sustain for 20 minutes? What's your average heart rate throughout that kind of tells you your functional threshold. That's basically telling you like, this is your anaerobic threshold. And so, you can come up with a heart rate percentages based on that functional threshold test. And you can make your own chart for zone one, zone two, zone three, zone four, zone five. That's kind of how we do it with our general strength conditioning templates or other conditioning focused templates. So, that's a test. Compared to barbell training, you test somebody's one rep max and you'd be like, look, we're going to program you to do 70% or five sets of four, for example. We know that none of those sets are going to be maximal, right? Just because you're so far away from failure, but they're all heavy enough to drive strength improvement. And we feel pretty good that you're unlikely to be too light, just as we're pretty confident that you're unlikely to be too heavy and causing too much fatigue. That's one way to do it. You could also guess, and use a bunch of some number of different variables without doing any sort of testing. This is like, again, if you never tested somebody's one rep max and strength training, so how would you go about prescribing the load that they should lift? And similar to our use of RPE, we care more about precision than accuracy here, meaning that you're using the same method to sort of gauge your effort and exertion compared to it being bang on, spot on, because there's a relatively wide range of sort of effective intensities, even within zone two. You don't need to be at the very top of zone two to make it maximally effective, and you don't need to be at the very bottom of zone two to make it, you know, minimally fatiguing. Somewhere in the middle is fine. Needs to be similarly hard is the target. Yeah, exactly. And so there are a bunch of different ways that you can do this. So for example, you could use RPE somewhere in that RPE four to six range. Now someone's like, well, I don't know what that means. And I'm like, okay, well, maybe that's not the best, best thing for you to use in isolation. But if I say RPE four to six, which is requires your attention to like maintain that pace, but it's kind of boring. It's not very hard. And oh, by the way, you should probably be somewhere in like 65 to 80% of your maximum heart rate. And oh, by the way, if you have any sort of like maximum power test that you've recently done, it should be about 40 to 50% of your peak power. Oh, and we can add like a ventilatory threshold, a breathing rate sort of test. So these are talk test, for example. So basically, with a talk test, you have an individual who is exercising to recite a paragraph that takes about 10 to 15 seconds to complete. In the US, we commonly use the Pledge of Allegiance. You just try to say that while you're exercising. And then as soon as the passage is completed, you basically ask yourself, can I still speak comfortably? If the answer is yes, the result is positive. You're probably not intense enough to be right near that aerobic threshold. But if the answer is no, or if you're unsure, then it's like, okay, I'm definitively within zone two, I'm close to that, that ventilatory threshold number one, which is good enough to be close to to the top of zone two. And so you could use all of these, you could use one of them, you could use, you know, a couple of them, whatever you want. But it's more important, again, that you use the same method each time, rather than being super, super accurate, because you don't need to pinpoint, you know, the top of zone two, or the bottom of zone two, just be in the middle. Yep. Yep. Similar concept to strength training, there's a there's a range, you know, your body does not, you know, robustly respond to a load that is a kilo heavier or a kilo lighter, or even two kilos, or maybe even five kilos, or, you know, whatever the case is, just, there's a wide range and being somewhere in the range, given how much variability and uncertainty, and inaccuracy or imprecision there is around a lot of these measures, then do the best you can. And again, if it's staying similarly hard, and your performance within that range of similarly hard is improving over time, then you are improving. Yeah, yeah, one of the methods I like the best is the counting talk test. So you have somebody take a maximal breath in. And then as they're, after that, they count aloud using their typical talking pace, one 1000 to 1000 3000, etc, until they have to take another breath, that final number that they say before the first breath is recorded, then you do the same test while they're doing exercise. And if you get to a value that's about half of what you're you're at rest, the counting talk test is great, you're smack dab in the middle of zone two, you're good to go. If it's more than that, I have concerns that you're in zone three, you've passed the aerobic threshold. And if it's about the same as what it was at rest, I have concerns that you're either at the beginning of zone one, or maybe not even exercising at all. So that's one easier way to do it. But again, some people are going to say this and like, just give me a heart rate zone. And I'm like, well, it's going to be wide, too wide to probably use. Yeah, right. Because if you just try to get to 80% of your max heart rate, I'm like, I don't know if you're zone three, maybe, you know, trickling into some some light zone four stuff, or you could be definitively within zone two, it just depends. Yeah, I don't know. It just when people talk about zone two training, I always want to ask them, like, what do you mean? Yeah. And like, how are you defining it? Because again, there's not really an agreed upon set of criteria that is generalizable to everyone, or even most people outside of using ranges that are too wide to be useful. It's like saying, you should lift weights. And it should be done, but you know, somewhere over 65% of your one rep max, and you're like, that range is too wide to actually execute, right? You're like, could I just stay at 65% of perpetuity? Should I ever go heavy? Is 75% better than 65%? What about 80%? I don't know, man. Yeah. And a lot of that is like, to what end? Like, what is the intended outcome of this training, right? So if it's for general health purposes, then you could. But the other implication there is how much of it do you need to do to get the most benefit out of it, right? So there's actually probably not anything wrong with doing an overwhelming majority, if not all of your, you know, aerobic conditioning at a very low intensity, let's call it zone one. But like, if you want to actually enjoy as much health benefit as you can out of that, you need to be doing probably many, many, many hours of that per week, like an enormous volume of very low intensity stuff. If you, if you do not have the time to do that, and you want to be getting, you know, all the health benefits you can out of your conditioning, then you might actually need to bump it up a little bit into a different intensity range for the amount of time that you're willing to put into it. I think that you and I would agree, like, hey, if we were back in our, you know, medical training period, and we were severely restricted on time, but we wanted to keep some conditioning in, as much as they're not my favorite thing to be doing, I'd be doing some pretty high intensity type conditioning work with the minimal time that I had available to me. Now my life is in a somewhat different position. And the amount of time that I have available to train is also different. And so I do a fair amount more lower intensity stuff, because the trade offs are more favorable, I'm willing to spend the time I actually don't mind it. And it reduces the fatigue cost. So I can spend that fatigue on other things like, you know, training or you're doing other sports and activities and things like that. So I think that's like the practical implication of like, why anyone should care about this is if you think you are following a particular protocol, if you think you're in a particular zone, you might not be getting as much as you think out of your training, if you were say you're far lower than that. And in order to get that benefit, you might need to double how much training volume you're doing. And you might be kind of fooling yourself on that. Yeah, yeah. I mean, just to do one more analogy to resistance training, I think for most folks who are not currently resistance training, my biggest concern is that they start doing resistance training. And then after that, I'm like, I want to make sure it's hard enough. Right. And then within that kind of consideration, I also want to make sure I'm more concerned that it would be too hard rather than than than, you know, not hard enough. And so there's just such a wide range that I don't know that you have to get super, super accurate on this stuff until performance becomes your ultimate goal. But within that, it's going to be so individualized, like you, for example, prefer lower intensity strength training than I do. I just respond a little bit better to higher intensity stuff. There's going to be that in conditioning, too. And I think people who take their conditioning outcomes for performance very, very seriously, likely do need advanced instrumentation, whether it's you're doing a lactate test while you're, you know, while you're in the field, whether you got a power, you know, output monitor, you're using heart rate stuff. I think that would be more useful. But for health, I'm more concerned that people doing this again, it's not too hard, not to not too easy. And we've given you guys some tools to kind of implement that. Yeah, I like it. Good tips. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the 2025 June research review. Again, we talked about do heavy walkouts work in the squat? Not really. We've talked about does exercise reduce cancer recurrence for colorectal cancer by 40 percent. It's probably an embellishment. And what defines zone two cardio? We're still shoulder shrug emoji. There's there's too many different things and it varies. Before you guys go anywhere, please give us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye