 génializantro, domankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankankank lifted 750 compared with when I deadlifted 700 versus when I deadlifted, you know, 600 or 500, I do think that there would be a general upward trend. It might not actually be perfect because I think that some of that variation in performance obviously is also mediated by skill, by neurological adaptations, things like that. But I think you'd see a reasonable upward trend. I mean, we've seen that at the highest levels of competitive strength and power sport, that the correlation between force production or strength and like muscle cross-sectional area gets to actually be tighter and tighter at very high levels of performance. Whereas like early on, there's very little correlation between that because so much of the strength performance is neurologically mediated and not as much due to muscle cross-sectional area and things like that. But over many, many years, I mean, if you've been training productively, you've maximized as many of the levers as you can. So you'll have the most neurological adaptations, the most muscle adaptations, the most tendon adaptations, the most technical adaptations, things like that. And so, yeah, I would expect a gradual upward trend. I don't think that that's indefinite. I mean, I think that, but you know, we're to the extent that we are no longer willing to gain significant amounts of overall body weight, I think that we have probably achieved about as much muscle as our frames are willing to carry in the absence of pharmaceutical manipulation. And so that's kind of my take on that. Oh, well, I'm going to allow me to have a little gentle pushback. Sure. I do. I mostly agree. However, I don't think that either of us have ever run a program for a significant amount of time that was, you know, its major priority was muscular hypertrophy, you know, to the exclusion of all else, like one rep max strength, be damned, compound movement, performance, be damned. We're really just going to try to max out how much muscle mass you can, you can gain. So I would suspect that even if right now you or I adopt a bodybuilding program and we ran it for, you know, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, like half a year, for example, we'd gain muscle mass. Sure. Yeah. I don't suspect that that would increase our strength in the movements that we care about squat, bench, deadlift, because we, those, all that new muscle mass needs to be highly coordinated to actually do squat, bench, deadlift. And we'd have to give up some of that training to like, you know, actually train the rest to generate muscle hypertrophy. But I think to this question, it's like, look, what's the overlap between strength training and hypertrophy training? And it's a pretty big, the Venn diagram, it's not a circle, it's not a circle, but there's a lot of overlap. So a good strength training program is going to increase muscular hypertrophy. A good hypertrophy program is going to increase strength in the movements that are being trained. However, prioritizing one over the other is likely to get you further down that particular aspect than just training over time. Right? So like you and I are mostly strength trained individuals, we are leaving certainly hypertrophy games on the table, because we have not, you know, with a soul, a single mindedly, you know, focused towards that same thing for bodybuilders. Yeah, they've achieved a significant amount of strength gains, but they have not single mindedly pursued one rep max strength. And so, yeah, there's some additional adaptations to be had there. Yeah. But to answer this guy's question, yes, there's, they're likely to build a significant amount of muscle mass, just not the most amount of muscle mass. And I like to bring this guy up because he has the most, the best nickname in all of strength sports, Tanner Segir, Olympic weightlifter. He snatched something like 440, like close to 200 kilos or whatever, it was a world record at the time. His nickname, the muscle less wonder. Amazing. Just imagine, like if you can snatch close to, I actually don't know that it was 200 kilos, but I thought it was real heavy. I thought it was like 190 something. Uh, we can, we can Wikipedia this, but if he's snatching anywhere near that, what do you think his front squat is? Probably like close to 500 and you know, and he's a 70, it was a 70 something kilo competitor and his legs are like not that big. And you're like, you imagine being called the muscle less wonder and being able to lift all this weight. Yeah. I just looked some things up. I think you were mixing up a snatch and clean and jerk. So he clean and jerked one 95 and he snatched one, he snatched one 72 five, uh, which is pretty, pretty impressive for, I think, uh, he's a 77 kilo lifter. So pretty darn good. Yeah. Pretty good, but not a lot of muscle. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, uh, yeah. If you want to figure out like, how do we blend these two? So imagine someone's like, well, yeah, I do want to get stronger, but I also want to build a lot of muscle mass. What would a program look like? It would look like our power building or hypertrophy programs. Those would be the two, uh, type of programs to run.