 All right, all right, let's get into the first study. This study is titled Supra-maximal walkouts, protect against performance decrements experienced in repeated sets of back squats. So just before we get into this, Austin, are you a, do you ever program heavy walkouts for people? No, I think that I can see the utility of it in certain contexts, I suppose maybe like, you know, in situations where someone has a, you know, kind of some anxiety around it, some performance stress if they're committed to walking out of weight, meaning they're not competing in a meet where they're going to use a monolift and just stand it up out of the monolift. Various, various potential use cases, I don't find myself programming them routinely. I don't personally use them. As an aside, I find it very, I don't know, interesting, amusing that this is actually being studied. It's like you can automatically deduce that like the researchers in this are like big time powerlifting nerds. Love it. Because no one else is going to be bothering to research this. Yeah, yeah, this is by Greased and the research group out of Florida State. University. This was published in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research June of this year. So fresh off the presses. So just if you don't know what a walkout is, like when we were talking about that, we're literally talking about walking out a squat. So you pick the bar up off the pins, the J hooks, whatever, and you walk it out. And supra maximal means heavier than your max. This probably, I mean, granted, I'm 40 now, but that doesn't mean I've been around since the beginning of time and the beginning of powerlifting. So I can't say if it used to be more popular. It certainly seemed that way, but I don't know if that was just in the circles that we were running in or whatever. But, yeah, the idea was, well, look, if you want to squat heavier weights, maybe you would do a heavy walkout to like feel the weight or whatever. And so, yeah, to your point, these guys probably are interested in powerlifting but also interested that it's been studied. So let's give a little background here before we talk about the specifics of the study. So first off, strength is muscular force production that's measured in a specific context. And so in relation to that, there is this concept of like velocity loss during a set. So this is a marker of like fatigue occurring during the set. So if you have a really fatiguing set, then you're going to get more velocity loss than a less fatiguing set. So a higher RPE set, for example, you'll see more velocity loss, generally speaking, than a lower RPE sort of set. Now, recent research into strength training has shown that training closer to failure, as evidenced by greater decreases in barbell velocity as the set progresses, does not produce greater strength gains than a more modest or smaller loss in bar velocity. And, in fact, the opposite has been kind of shown. So for our strength-focused training programs, the way that we coach or whatever, we tend to favor less velocity loss and, therefore, lower RPE training, so that low fatigue type of setup. And I just want to interject because for those who may be either unfamiliar with some of these terms or like a little bit less familiar with these concepts, to put it into kind of more practically understandable terms, when we talk about velocity loss, that's describing the bar, like how quickly you can stand up the weight from a squat getting slower and slower and slower as a set goes on, as you get more and more and more tired. And so I think traditionally, the view of like what constitutes effective strength training, quote, heavy air quotes around that, is seeing somebody who is grinding out an extremely difficult, hard, hard, hard set where the last rep just inches up millimeter by millimeter. What we are saying is that more recent evidence in this, as well as a fair amount of experience, has reflected that as far as strength outcomes go, your ability to maximally increase your one rep max kind of strength performance, the bulk of your training actually does not need to be quite that close to failure, that hard, that much of a bar slowdown, nor arguably should it be. There certainly can be some exposure to that level of effort so that you can, maybe if you need to grind out that absolute one rep max, be able to do that or to know how to not immediately bail when it gets that hard. But as far as how to best train towards that end, it seems that when we compare people who train while they maintain a bit faster bar speeds at the end of their set, meaning their sets terminate a bit sooner versus going a bit further closer to failure where the bar slows down more, they grind harder. The strength outcomes tend to be a bit better when people keep the bar speed up higher. And so when you say like a little bit lower RPE training or low fatigue template, that doesn't mean you're lifting lighter weights. That doesn't mean you're just doing easy training. It is that each individual set on its own is less fatiguing. You are still exposing yourself to at least moderate to heavy loads, but you're not taking it all the way to failure. Yeah. Yeah. Imagine like a five rep maximum, which is like 85, 86% of a one rep max somewhere in there. Imagine just doing it for a set of three. You'd have less velocity loss. And we would predict that to work better than doing a single set of five to failure and how it costs you less from fatigue. And it'd be even better if maybe you did two sets of three or three sets of three, you know, because you could do that since you didn't go, you didn't, you know, blow your smoke yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So one strategy for potentially reducing velocity loss during a set is post activation performance enhancement. Pape is post activation potential, that sort of thing. So if you didn't want to lower RPE, for example, and you're like, but how can I maintain bar velocities or another way, please help me. This is a strategy that's had been investigated in resistance training. So it's mostly a function of neural mechanisms. So some stuff with the brain nerves and other short term changes to the level of the muscle itself. So, for example, you could do a vertical jump prior to doing a heavy squat or a bench press throw before a heavy bench press, or you could do the opposite. You could do squats before a vertical jump. And there's some evidence that this may work to sort of preserve or even increase the velocity of whatever the second thing is. Now, for example, previous data shows that doing heavy eccentric only sets, a downward phase for bench presses may benefit upper body power production. So this particular study had guys who benched about 315 pounds. They did two reps of eccentric only. Again, that's a downward phase with 110 to 130 percent of their one rep max bench press loads. Just as an aside, I want zero part of that. Yeah, that does not sound pleasant to me. So you've benched, you know, in the 450, something like that is your best. I think mine and me is 440, whatever. So I'm just imagining unracking 500 pounds and then lowering it to my chest without it completely exploding. Now, I understand Jennifer Thompson has done this. I've seen a video of her lowering 500 pounds to pins, and she benches like, I think, 330 or something around there is her max. So hats off to her. Yeah, I just want to point out one thing. You said what was the 130 percent of their max? Do you know what that is for? No, I didn't want to do it because that just scares me. Yeah, it's for me, it would be about 585. No chance. Yeah, no chance. I couldn't even unrack that. That's what I'm saying. Like, I would help. You and I would be in my garage just unracking this thing, and then you would just explode. You would turn to dust. You'd be a dust on the bench press, at least your upper body. It would just be a guillotine. Yeah, that'd be the end of us. And then I'd have to vacuum you up with a dry vac. He's dead. Anyway, so they did this 110 to 130 percent of their one rep max bench press loads. They just did two reps bringing the bar down only. Now, so I imagine what happened is they brought the bar down to pins. Somebody, they helped them get back up and they did a second rep. Five minutes later after this, they performed a bench press throw with 30 percent of their one rep max to measure power. I assume this was on a Smith machine, actually, now that I think about it. And there was a 10 percent increase in power and 6 percent increase in velocity compared to not doing these heavy overloads. So this thought is like, well, shoot, maybe if we do this sort of, you know, heavy overload prior to some sort of test, in this case, the squat, maybe it improves velocity, for example. So this study wanted to look at the effect of walking out a weight higher than the individual's one rep max, their squat one rep max, and their subsequent squat performance. They took 13 healthy dudes who had a one rep max back squat of about two times body weight. The average squat in this study was 425 pounds, so reasonably well trained. They visited the lab four different times. The first was for typical research stuff, so consent, screening, getting height and weight data, et cetera. The second, they actually tested their one rep max squat. And the third and fourth were experiments, which included either a heavy walkout that was heavier than their one rep max or the placebo walkout, which was like 30 percent. Of the one rep max. They had trash bags over the weights. Nice. So theoretically, you wouldn't know. Yeah. And I think that is an interesting study in and of itself. Like when you feel like you start to unrack the weight or whatever, like what goes on in your supplementary motor area of your brain to like correct for force production? Or do you just think, well, it could be heavy, so I'm going to go 100 percent? What do you think would happen there? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that it's super fascinating. I think both of us, when training towards one rep max strength, we actually pay a lot of attention to the immediate feel of the weight when we unrack it. And I vividly can recognize periods where I unrack it. I'm like, oh, this weight feels like 150 pounds lighter than I expected it to feel. So this is about to fly today. And then other times where it feels far heavier than you expected to. And so, you know, depending on the context impacts your decision making in that front. But I do remember, you know, years ago, I think it was Bryce Lewis was doing some training. And I remember, I don't know if it had to do with some, maybe some like performance anxiety on the platform or what led to it. But he was training where he would have other people load up his bar and put black trash bags over the ends of the weights. And he just went and lifted what his coach put on the bar for him without him having any knowledge of it so that he wouldn't have any kind of like, I guess, negative mindset going into the set, which was interesting to watch at the time. Yeah. I mean, I'm just thinking of my and granted, I'm primed a little bit by looking at the weights. I can like tell what it is. Yeah. But what if, for example, you had calibrated kilo plates, but they were the wrong colors? And so like all the reds were blues instead of being 25. I don't know. Like it would do something. It would prime you in a different way. That'd be a cool experiment. Yeah. Maybe, maybe these researchers, since they're powerlifting nerds like us, maybe do that next. So anyway, yeah, they had a heavy, you know, walkout. One was 110%. And one of the times they visited the lab and the other one was the placebo walkout was like 30% of the one rep max. So they just walked it out. They held it for 10 seconds and then they re-racked it. Then they rested for five minutes and they performed three sets of one repetition at 92 and a half percent of the one rep max. And then data was collected on bar velocity, RPE, and muscle electrical activity via EMG. So results. For both the light and heavy walkouts, power and velocity tended to decrease in the sets performed after the walkouts. No surprise there. You're just lifting heavy weights over and over again. Some fatigue is going to occur. However, RPE also tended to increase in both groups across the sets. However, the decrease in average power and bar velocity were slightly less in the group who did the heavy walkout. And the increase in RPE was also slightly less. Now, this mostly pertained to the very first set after the heavy walkout. And these changes, while statistically significant, were relatively small. I'm not going to bother reading you the numbers because they would be meaningless. You'd be like, dude, that's just numbers. I don't know what to think of that. I'm telling you, though, like they're not impressive. So then there were also no differences in electrical activity in the muscles as measured by EMG. So to summarize, this study looked at doing a heavy walkout prior to some heavy single repetition squat sets. And it may preserve bar speed and reduce RPE slightly in the very next set. However, the effect does not appear to be very big. And we're talking about like less than a half point in RPE difference. And there were no differences in muscle electrical activity between the heavy and light walkout groups. And the preservation of velocity was also what I would consider to be like an artifact potentially. It's just not big enough for you to be like, wow. And to me, this is not particularly strong evidence of a benefit from heavy walkouts on or short-term performance for one. Because statistical significance does not equal clinically significant. In this case, the clinic is the gym. And so the numbers are just too small for me to believe that they're either real or meaningful, certainly. It's also difficult to imagine that these small differences, again, limited to the first back offset, would actually lead to better results long-term. Meaning like someone gains more strength or gains more muscle mass or whatever. It just seems like kind of an interesting finding in a small group that's ultimately like a shoulder shrug. Like, I don't even know that this is real. So what do you make of this? Yeah. Deeply unimpressed as well. I wonder like if you compared it with like, have a different group that doesn't do the walkouts beforehand. But instead, you just like hype them up before they're set. Yeah. Like that would probably have or like, you know, play them their favorite song. Give them a trap slap. You know, just and I think that's part of the takeaway is that a lot of this is kind of subjective, individual preference-based types of things. That work for certain people from a performance standpoint in terms of like pre-exercise rituals and various other kinds of things that I, you know, if somebody tells me, gosh, when I do a heavy walkout before my set, I feel like Superman going into it. I'm like, cool. Like, who am I to argue with it? I'm not going to go out of my way to use this ahead of time for people unless I think my persistent use case for this is like somebody who sucks at walking out a heavy weight. Like, then it's just practicing that skill rather than aiming to use it to improve performance on a subsequent squat set. I'd rather just like, I don't know, yell at them a little bit more during their set to like try harder or like tell them to, you know, try to throw the bar off their back when they stand up out of the bottom. And I bet that that would actually have a bigger impact on bar speed than just like holding a heavier weight beforehand. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. It's personal preference for barbell sport athletes. Like if you're a power lifter, for example, this is just, and you prefer doing this. I think it's fine. I'd be more interested to know, like, even if you didn't hype people up, even if you didn't trap slap, even if you didn't play their preferred song, what about just resting more? Sure. You know, like I assume there's some level of fatigue from the heavy walkout. Yeah. And even some for maybe the placebo walkouts. What about just like hanging out? Yeah. Or like visualizing you moving a weight quickly during your rest period. You know, a lot of like, I'm a bigger fan of that, arguably, than some of these other things. Yeah. Yeah. I prefer for power lifters, if they're going to do a walkout, it's more practice. They're learning how to pick the weight up, walk it out or whatever, and stabilize the weight. You know, if that's something that they struggle with, like if they, you prefer to somebody to take like three step, two to three steps out of the rack. But if they take like a dozen, you're like, okay, we should, we should practice this maybe. For Olympic weightlifting, I like the front squat, front squat rack holds. But that's more of an isometric like strengthening exercise for them to be able to hold a heavy weight in the rack position. I think there's probably a better training effect there. For overload work, though, I think actual heavy eccentric work is beneficial. And I program that regularly. Now, most people don't have access to like weight releasers, like the stuff that actually comes off the bar when you hit the ground. I've had those before. They're cool, but gosh, what a pain in the ass. Very cumbersome. Totally. Yeah. Also, like maybe I'll try to find this and I'll link it in the show notes. Mike T has this thing. He's in his garage, of course, and he's, he walks out. I think the bar weight was like, it was 770 something or close to 800 or whatever, like on the bar. And then weight releasers, he had like 150 or 135 on each side. And if you've never seen these things, they like hang off the bar and they do oscillate, right? Like a set of chains, but they're not chains. It's just, it's a long metal pole with weights on the bottom of it. And so this thing is swinging. Yeah. And, but to his credit, he goes down to the bottom and the weight releasers pop off and then he stands back up with it. Look, you're, you're stronger eccentrically than you are concentrically by about 20%. So it makes sense. There's some good, decent training effect. There's just a pain in the butt to, to use. Chains can work, although it's slightly different because the chains obviously stay on the bar. So I don't know if that's really eccentric overload work. Some partial range of motion work for upper body stuff like floor press, board press can work. Again, it's not the same type of eccentric overload work, but can be useful. I just don't think that heavy walkouts outside of like skill development are super, super useful. Yeah. For powerlifting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.