! Alasin, arauastrile, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, exiting, because, look, there are a lot of people who have lived into an old age who like don't exercise and I assume that no progressive loading was had. So yeah, I don't know blue zones like yeah, they I don't know that they're progressively like walking further to get water or wine, for example. But I assume this is in the case of exercise. And so then all right, well, what is progressive loading? So it's basically this principle that is formally called progressive overload that suggests the body must be challenged by progressively greater training stimuli in order to match the individual's fitness improvements and subsequently generate fitness adaptations over time. If you didn't do this, people wouldn't get as much fitness adaptations. They wouldn't get as much strength, gain as much strength, gain as much muscle mass, cardio-reserve fitness, so on and so forth. So how to do this, it's effectively adding something to your workout, whether it's more weight, more reps, more total volume, more distance, more pace, whatever, as you get more fit. So you get bigger, faster, stronger, and you can lift more weights, go faster, go further, et cetera. You don't do it in advance. Now, what would happen if you didn't do this? So I'm going to – a little thought experiment, Dr. Baraki, I'm going to have you answer this. What would happen? So let's say I'm training my dad, hypothetically, all right? And right now he's squatting – I think he squatted 125 today for a couple sets of four. I think realistically that's probably like 75 percent of his actual one rep max right now. So let's just say that in perpetuity he kept squatting 115 for sets of four. What would happen to him over time from a perspective of – we'll call them like health-related adaptations, so laundry list there, and then performance-related adaptations? Would it work for a while? Would he just make no gains? Like what would happen to him? Yeah, it is an interesting question. I suspect just by the way that this question was asked that it may reflect not an entirely accurate understanding of what we mean when we talk about this. And I have a friend here behind me that will be on YouTube, I guess. Hi, Kat. So what I would envision is he starts out squatting these loads that you have him doing up front, and he's going to likely adapt to that in some capacity. And when I say adapt, it means that he is going to gain strength. And so if you said that that set is 75 percent of his one rep max, then in the relatively near term, as he adapts and builds strength to that, then he will suddenly begin squatting a lower and lower percentage of his one rep max as he gains strength. Right? So he's effectively training less as he goes by not matching the load to his adapted kind of potential. And so that will work for a bit to the extent that he continues gaining strength. And then in also not terribly long, he will kind of tap out the maximum amount of strength adaptations that he's able to get out of that particular load. And I think that over the medium term, that is actually – he would be fine from a health standpoint. Right? Yes. The thing is that over the long term, over a long enough time scale, everyone dies. Right? So there's some pathway to that death that involves a degree of regression. And so there will then over time become a point where as his body kind of regresses due to a combination of more trips around the sun and a lack of that stimulus, then that percentage of one rep max that he is squatting will interestingly start to come back up again to the point where it does eventually become 75 percent again. And then, ooh, it became 80, 85 percent, 90, 95 percent, one rep max. I can't lift this at all anymore beyond a certain point. And I think that that is kind of the natural trajectory of everyone's strength across the lifespan. The idea is that we want to stretch that out as much as possible to where we gain much of that strength as early in life as we can, maintain it as long as we can, and then that decline period is as abbreviated as possible. In other words, when you die, you want your 1RM to be as high as you can. I like that. You like that? That's a good short quote. There you go. Yeah. And so that would be what I would expect from a performance standpoint. And honestly, I think that the health standpoint, he's actually likely to enjoy health benefits from that for a while. I do think that the idea here, again, the way I understood or I interpreted the question being asked is under the more traditional view of progressive overload where do I have to force more weight on the bar to get health benefits? Rather than the way that we're talking about it, as you get stronger, you need to kind of adjust it to keep up with your adaptations, to match your adaptations, right? And so to the extent that you are responding at all to your training, the load should naturally increase to keep up with it, right? And so it's not necessarily something that you must actively do, but rather something that almost like needs to happen to keep pace with you as you adapt, which is a tough thing for folks to wrap their mind around if they're not used to this concept. Yeah, I think that training shouldn't get harder or easier over time. Rather, you should adjust training to keep it the same level of difficulty, generally speaking, over time. And so when I think about just load, like the weight on the bar in my thought experiment here, he's likely to receive pretty near maximal strength and hypertrophy benefits from that type of workout for a pretty good period of time until he falls out of this sort of effective intensity range. Once that becomes, I don't know, 55%, I'm like, it's probably too light now, right? And at that point, he's getting less certainly performance benefits, but I also think less health-related benefits too because I do think that training that makes people stronger, makes them actually gain muscle mass or whatever, works better for health than just going through the motions and moving your body. Which, to be clear, is better than not going through the motions and not moving your body, but I think that the actual adjustments in load, so weight on the bar, reps, total training load, all these sort of things, it doesn't need to be micromanaged week to week. It doesn't need to be micromanaged every other week, every third week, every fourth week. I could actually envision a scenario where no variable actually changes over, I don't know, a five-week period, an eight-week period, and people could do pretty well because there's sufficient range of viable intensities, viable sort of workloads. And so until it becomes far too light to work, it's still going to be fine. Yeah. So when people are like, I got to add one pound to the bar this week. Right, yeah. Or even I got to add five pounds to the bar today. I'm like, no, you don't. If it was sufficiently hard last time, you are highly likely to be smack dab in the middle or maybe even towards the upper end of this sort of viable intensity range, VIR, trademark. And until you get too low or too high, you're going to be fine. Right? So I think that generally speaking, when people are asking this type of question, I agree with you. They're trying to add weight to the bar too quickly. And it's like, you don't have to, bro. If you've got a 405 squat right now for a set of four, for example, and it feels like RPE eight, don't add weight to the bar until it's like RPE less than five. At that point, you've gained enough strength where you're like, hey, I actually do need more weight on the bar because it's too light. You know, obviously that's a gross oversimplification. But just to illustrate my point here. Yeah, that's a strategy. And I think that some people are going to be better or worse fits for that style of training based on their mentality and the way they go about it. But at the same time, if you go about it in the more aggressive way where you do try to add more weight onto the bar every week, maybe you progress a little bit faster for any number of reasons. But also you may be incurring a little bit of a higher injury risk from trying to force something that ain't there. You know, I could see both sides of that coin. I personally employed this strategy on my bench press for my last meet. The only thing that changed loading wise was my single, my top like single sort of thing. I would adjust that based on how strong I perceived I was. Sometimes I was right. Sometimes I was wrong. But all of my back offsets for, I don't know, nine weeks, eight, whatever it was, was 297. It was 68 and a half percent. And I just did all of my volume work at 297. I never went up. I never went down. I just did that because I was like, I can handle a lot of volume here. I don't get sore. And, you know, as far as my technique, it's also excellent. My technique is also excellent at that load. And so I was like, I'm just going to try this, see what works. And yeah, that's 200 kilos. There you go. Yeah, there you go. Yeah. We're going to have to come up with a program that's like do nothing. The do nothing program. Do nothing but try really hard to move the bar fast. Yeah. I like that. The do. I like that.