 Hi, I'm Jordan Feigenbaum, I'm a doctor, competitive power lifter, and I've been a strength coach for over 15 years. And this is tech support for your lifts. Alright, it's been a while since I've done one of these form review things. And you guys, sent me a ton of videos, thank you so much. It's about 20 minutes of straight up form checks. I haven't seen any of these before, so it'll be the first time for both of us as we go through them. And if you want to be on the channel, I want to try to do these things regularly, just send me an email, it's media at barbellmedicine.com. Ideally, it's a multi-rep set, tends to be a little bit better than a single rep set, but I can do that too. Send them landscape rather than portrait, that'd be ideal. And then either as an attachment or some sort of file sharing service, you can use that. Yeah, it's media at barbellmedicine.com. And then, yeah, so we're going to get into these. I haven't seen them before. And just before we start, the sort of heuristic or rule that I'm using to kind of like evaluate this is the rep model that I kind of use for technique. Is it repeatable? Is it efficient? And does it meet the points of performance of the exercise? So that's kind of what we're looking at here, repeatable efficiency points of performance. And then we're going to try to really increase the efficiency here. I know a lot of people want to talk about injury risk with certain techniques, and maybe we'll talk about the exercise. about that as we get into some of these videos. Again, I haven't seen any of these, so let's go. Let's go. All right, this first video is from Jack. Looks like he's squatting, is it 425? No collars, but, you know, sometimes I do that. Yeah, it's a pretty decent single. Let's watch that again real quick. Looks like on the way down, he kind of gets off balance just a little bit, and that kind of compromises the sort of hip drive, and you see some velocity decrease on the way up. See if we watch it again, we can identify this. Yeah, it looks like the knees sort of slide forward at the bottom, and so what's happening is during the descent, it's mostly hips going back rather than knees flexing at the same time. And so if you get a mismatch there, occasionally you'll get the knees swinging back forward at the bottom, and people can get off balance. Now, he didn't get off balance a lot because you didn't see the heels actually come off the ground or something like that. We're on the opposite problem. Toes coming up on the way up. But I do think there's some improvement we can make with efficiency just by getting the knees to break a little more during the descent and likely sooner. So I would cue him maybe knees first or knees and hips together. Try one of those iterations and see how that works. But again, this looks pretty good to me. All right, this is, next one is Ultan, he says, 186 kilos, 409 pounds. Looks like a good low bar squat position. A little slow on the descent, and the balance was compromised. But yeah, just a little twist on the way up, and some of that's due to the hips shifting back out of the bottom, which is kind of the result of the knees not going far to forward, I feel like, on the way down. Which I think is likely caused by the toe angle being a little bit too straight for this particular individual's anthropometry and their current sort of strengths and weaknesses and this, that, and the other. So I would try maybe toes slightly turned out a little bit more and getting the knees, again, like our first squatter, a little bit further forward during the descent. So that way the hips don't shift as far back on the way up. The hips go far enough back on the way up. You're kind of in no man's land. And some interesting things can happen, but still, pretty good squat. And I think he said this was a PR. So, hey man, congrats on the PR. All right, third video here. This is Mike K. I think he said he lost like 130 pounds. And then this is his third attempt from a meet back in March. Looks like 160 kilos. It was 352. So we'll see here. Low bar squat. Yeah, you can see the knees coming in a little bit on the way up. It does have a pretty wide stance, which I think is fine. Biggest thing here, that pitch a little bit on the way up, we kind of pitch this forward. I think a lot of this is set up during the descent. His low back is flexing just a little bit. And I would probably prefer a little bit more extension and a little bit tighter sort of position. And I think what you're going to see then is sort of less, again, folding, not only on the descent, but particularly on the way up. Still, you know, low bar squat, you're going to be more horizontal. Nothing really wrong with that. But yeah, I would definitely set the low back a little bit harder and try to maintain that during the descent. Of course, I would prefer a better angle, like posterior 45 degrees, rather than from the front, because we're kind of obscured with this elbow. But that's kind of what I'm thinking here. Video number four, this is from Rasmus. How much weight is this? Oh, I think it says 102 and a half kilos. What was that, 225? America's two plates. All right. Got a real narrow grip for this low bar squat, which is fine. I prefer it to be a little bit higher in the hand, but yeah. And then if you view from the top, you can't really see depth that well, although I know he's definitely below parallel here, even from the top. You prefer to be at hip height for sort of optimal depth viewing. These look pretty good. Yeah, the bar is kind of rolling down his back a little bit, not moving too much, just kind of like that pitch. And then the head dipping forward kind of makes it look like that. I don't actually think the bar is moving. Rather, what I would do is I'd probably move his gaze up just a little bit and then really consciously cue him to deliberately sort of squeeze his upper back tight and maintain that during that reversal sort of movement. And then after he gets that, that would kind of be the first thing I'd look at or try to do. The second thing would be try to speed up the descent so he gets a bigger bounce. All right. Next video. This is Tobias. I think it was 275, 125 kilos. So look at the feet, heels stay flat on the floor, so that's pretty good for balance. I don't see the bar path really deviating that much. These are pretty solid depth-wise. Yeah. It's right below parallel. So, you know, if you were trying to squat ATG, these wouldn't be it, but definitely good for powerlifting. I just think on that last one, you see the bar speed kind of crater on the way up. Some of that is just due, again, to the hips going back, bar shooting forward, not of midfoot, but you're trying to balance that whole bar lifter system out. And so you just lose a little bit of drive on the way up. And so, again, avoiding the hips, swinging back, and then pitching forward is really going to improve the squat. So as far as what to do, maybe instead of thinking hip drive, if that's a cue that you use, think leg drive. You could also, think, maintain chest angle or sort of chest and hips together. All of those things could potentially work, but the balance was good. Depth was good. Bar path was relatively good. I just think on that last rep, you know, sometimes it do be like that. All right, next video. This is from Jess D. Now, I'll tell you this. I don't love this sort of angle from the back. I do use it in my coaching practice. If I'm looking for, hey, what does the toe angle, foot angle sort of look like? Is the bar centered on your back? Is there some sort of either tilt in the bar one way or the other, or is it shifted one way or the other? Or does somebody have like a hip shift that I'm seeing and I'd like to evaluate it more closely? But in general, my preferred angle is like a posterior 45, like rear oblique 45 degree, or directly from the side, like a profile shot. In general, those are very, very useful, whereas there's limited information I can get from this particular angle. Okay, so it's a fairly wide stance. Not, you know, not bad necessarily, just fairly wide. Hey, it's a dog. I'm distracted by the dog. What's on the dog's neck? All right, back to the lifting. Okay, so, yeah. If we use the reps model to kind of evaluate technique here, again, reps standing for is it repeatable, is it efficient, and does it meet the points of performance of the exercise? In general, on a squat, the points of performance are that we're doing simultaneous flexion of the hip, knee, ankle in a loaded pattern. Either the load could be as low as body weight or as high as, you know, a PR squat, for example. And we're trying to maintain balance of the bar relative to our center, our balance point, which is about midfoot, more or less. So, and then on top of that, the depth or the range of motion constraints that we're using is generally something below parallel, although we can, you know, arbitrarily make up some different depth. It could be a half squat, could be useful in some sort of sports performance or rehab situations, could be an ATG-type squat, might be useful for receiving and recovering from a clean jerk, clean and snatch and Olympic weightlifting, all sorts of different things. Effectively, it's all made up based on the application, right? And so, in general, I'd like to see a squat below parallel for general strength conditioning, provided somebody can do that. And so, I think the load here is too high for her to squat below parallel. And because that is the case, we're just limited to, you know, we'll call this a half squat or quarter squat. The stance, the toe angle is reasonable. The bar position is also reasonable for a high bar back squat. I would just prefer to see a little bit lighter load and have her go below parallel. And so, I don't know what's on the bar because I can't quite see the plates. But, yeah, that's the first piece of advice. And then I would try to get a view from that rear 45 just to see is the reason why depth is compromised in this particular individual squat because she's trying to stay too vertical, for example, or is something else going on? I didn't see her heels come up in this particular angle. And that said, I think it's more just because the depth is limited and we didn't really, if she went lower, that might have happened. So, just send in another video. Take, you know, some weight off the bar and see if we can go just an inch below parallel. We'll see what happens. All right, next video. This is from Anthony. These look like low bar squats. And the first one had the knees sliding pretty far forward to the bottom, but the next, he looked fine. So, yeah, outside of the first rep, that looks pretty fine to me. Just very light. So, really hard to tell you much of anything. All right, next video. This is Chris. He's doing pause squats. Well, right away, I would just move the gaze out. I think he's looking far too close. Also, that's not paused. So, in general, when I'm doing like a two-count pause squat, I think at the bottom, like 1,000, 2,000. But these, to me, just look like normal tempo squats. That was a little pause. I prefer it to be, again, a full two counts. And I think the other thing I would do is move the gaze out. All right, David. These are some, I don't know what that is. A 2.95? First one, the tempo is a little slow. So, but he got a decent bounce. Just not as much as he could. Oh, that's much better. Yeah, second rep's way better. Nice. That looks pretty good. And I'm looking at his feet. Do the heels come up? Nope. They're planted. And then I'm looking at posture. Does the back stay in a relatively static position throughout the rep? It does. I don't know that I like that little knee kick, but it could just be his style. And I don't know that there's any efficiency to be gained there by changing it. So, I think these look pretty good, man. I would consider moving the gaze out just to try. But other than that, hey, man, nice squats. All right, next video. This is Madison. This is 240. 240. Yeah, I can't tell. Let's just go back, wash it again because it's just a single rep. Again, you guys can see why, like, multi-rep sets are good. Also, like, show the setup because I think that's sometimes interesting. You can pick up some things to adjust or maybe work on there to improve efficiency in just the setup, whether it's a squat, whether it's a bench press, deadlift, some other exercise. But, okay, I'm just going to pause. This is right before she descends. And so, I'm just looking at the foot position. That looks pretty good to me. I'm looking at her gaze. It's a little close for my preferences. But, again, people have their individual styles. And, eh, all right, maybe don't change that. The thing that I probably would comment on is the elbow position, position of her arms. And so, it looks like, again, I don't know if this was filmed on a potato or just we lost some resolution when she sent the video to me. But, it looks like she's using a false grip. And her elbow, particularly her left elbow, is very high. Shoulders, you know, kind of cranked that way. I don't think that really risks injury per se because you can get used to a lot of different things, particularly if you gradually load it over time. I just don't know that it's as efficient as it could be because the higher the elbows are, I think the more risk people have of some thoracic sort of flexion or loosening, particularly during the reversal portion of the squat when you go from the bottom and kind of reverse it, go back up. So, first things first, I would try to get a more elbows down position. Ideally, the humerus, that sort of position, if you looked at a lifter from profile view, that would be in like almost a similar angle or the same angle as the trunk. So, I often cue people elbows down or elbows forward. So, that's what I'm seeing just here in the static sort of position. But, otherwise, maybe gaze, maybe that left elbow or elbows together. I can't tell if she's using a squat bar or if it's just the perspective. That bar does look super long, but so it might not be 240. It might be 250. Anyway, all right, let's watch the rep. Yeah, depth looks good for a powerlifter, but the same thing we've seen in some of the other squats. You see the sort of, we'll watch it again because, again, it's just a single. I talked about it enough. You see limited knee travel forward and then just kind of stuck just shoving the butt back. And it's not a bad way to squat. I just think there's more efficiency if we can get the knees a little bit further forward and then use more of the quad as you go through the ascent. Rather than the hips go back, you're pretty much relying on glutes and adductor magnus mainly to kind of move the bar. And at some point, there's like a mechanical advantage that just runs out. And so you can see that with the bar speed sort of cratering a little bit. And so my cue, again, would probably be knees forward and out first. Maybe knees just forward first and see if we can get some improvement there. And once she got that movement down, I would then increase the rep speed or tempo on the descent so you'd get a bigger bounce. So yeah, elbows, descent speed, knee position, and see how that works. And, you know, people have different styles when they squat too. So it might make those changes and it might not improve her efficiency. All right, next video is Peter. It's a high bar squat. Again, you can see from the side, look at the elbow and the arm. Like the humerus is pretty much in the same angle as the back. I would prefer a bigger bounce out of the bottom and then like stop at the top, take a big breath, lock everything in, and then go to each rep. He like when it looks to the side. I don't know. Maybe a friend over there saying what's up. So yeah, these just look like some pretty casual squats, which is cool. But I think if, you know, really trying to improve efficiency, be able to add more weight to the bar, I think at the top, get real tight, descend a little bit faster. You pause that rep for some unknown reason and then I would just bounce out of the bottom. Also, I see the mirror in front of you. Now, obviously, you don't have control over this, but if it were me, I'd probably look at the base of the mirror. Yeah. Yeah. But still good squats. The depth was good and I was watching your feet also from what I could see from here. Didn't look like the heels were coming up, for example, and I didn't see anything going on there. So we just get real tight at the top, descend a little faster, bounce out of the bottom, and then wait till after the set to say hi to your friend. All right. Next video. This is, I don't actually know what his name is. It looked like part of his name was Sjogren. And I was like, Sjogren syndrome? Like a PTSD from medicine. What is this? 205. It's 451. Yeah. I like that eye position. I like the stance. A little valgus knee on the way up. Knees coming in. Yeah. And then you see that kind of bar speed crater on the way up on that last rep. Again, a similar thing we've been seeing here. The hips go back too far out of the bottom. You do tend to see the knees come in a little bit. And then the bar speed will crater again once the mechanical advantage of the adductor and the glute tend to run out. That's generally how that happens. You can do it other different ways. People's backs can round, for example, in the bar. In order to maintain balance, you've got to do some weird stuff with the rest of your body to maintain balance. But here, I didn't see the heels come up or anything like that. Yeah, I'd really focus on, again, trying to keep the knees a little bit further forward as you're reversing the movement. And so, again, instead of thinking hip drive, you might think leg drive, knee drive, or chest and hips together, something like that. But, you know, 451 for a double. PR for you is probably somewhere in that 500 range, I would guess. So, you know, a challenging set. And, you know, sometimes things are going to happen, break down a little bit. So, all right, this is Saurav. What weight is this? Feel like he's overseas. So, I see blues and I see green. So, what was it, 160 kilos? 352? Platform looks good, though. A little high bar squat. Good elbow position. Good depth. Hey, man. Nice work. Yeah, the only thing there is just the tempo. So, I would speed up the tempo, the descent speed on the way down to get a bigger bounce. If you go that slow, you're going to kind of miss the bounce. So, all right, this is Tyler. This looks like Metroflex Gym in San Diego. I think this is a squat bar. I think this is maybe 195. Yeah, getting a lot of pitch out of the bottom. And the T-spine, if you could just maintain that extension, you wouldn't get that bar going forward just like it is there and kind of losing balance. That's the big thing. So, you can either try to squeeze your T-spine a little bit tighter, your mid, you know, your trunk, your torso, mid-back. Keep it just completely static or motionless. You can cue yourself elbows forward or elbows down on the way up. That would all work. It's just the head lift isn't going to really help because, you know, the weight's heavy. But, yeah, that's the big thing there is to try to fix that. All right, last squat here. What is this? 295? 295? Two? No. Maybe 300? All right, well, let's pause this here. So, he's finished the walkout. I can see his face just between the rack and the plates. Looking straight down. I usually cue people six feet out, ten feet out, look at some place on the floor or on the wall, whatever's in front of you, something like that. Yeah, looking straight down, I just feel like the risk of thoracic flexion or hips shooting way back or something like that. It's a little too high, but, you know, some people may prefer different gazes. So, it's not a hard line for me. It's just kind of where I start people. But the elbows. It looks like he's using a false grip, so thumb not wrapped around the bar, which is fine. You can do thumbs over the bar, but you can't have your elbows in that position. You can't have your elbows in that position. You're just going to see the bar move a bunch. It does tend to maybe cause a little bit more sensitivity in the upper extremity, and a lot of people see that quite a bit. And, yeah, I think you can be more efficient by keeping the elbows down. So, I would even give up more wrist sort of position, go in more wrist extension, get the elbows down, or switch to thumbs around. You can also switch to a talon grip. All sorts of different options. But, yeah, that elbow position, I would 10 out of 10 change. All right, let's see what the rep looks like. Yeah, so just on the way down, you see the bar. It gets a little bit forward of his midfoot. And then, in order to balance that out, his hips have to go back. And, yeah, the weight is sub-maximal for him, which is good. Hey, 300s, good squat. But I would get the elbows down. I would move the gaze out. And let's watch this one more time. I want to see what happens with his heels. I can get a chance to peek at those. Yeah, heels come up at the bottom. Yeah, lose a little bit of balance there. So, elbows down, gaze out. Push the knees further forward so you're not just, you know, hips back the whole time. All right, that's done with squats. So, hey, if you were liking this stuff, leave a comment below. Give me some feedback. Also, you can, you know, like the video. You can subscribe. Do some more of these. And, again, you want to send in your own form checks. That's cool. I'm ready to do it. Media barbell medicine. All right, so this is bench press. This is talism. See the shoulder retraction? That looks pretty good. Tempo on the way down. Could be faster. I don't like also moving from rep one to two with paws in between. Yeah, so don't do that. And then, yeah. So, you're doing some hybrid between a touch and go and, like, a paused bench. Pick one. So, you either get the stretch reflex from the touch and go bench or get the advantage of staying tight, locked in a position. And then launching the bar, heaving the bar, throwing the bar up and back towards the rack from a pause bench. So, pick one or the other. Speed up the descent on the tempo. And then don't do, like, rep one and two and three. Back to back to back. Pause at the top. Retract your shoulder blades. Again, put your chest up to the ceiling. And if you need to take another breath, do that. But make sure to reclaim that start position. That's what I would do. But the touch point looks pretty good. Bar path looks pretty good. Just need to adjust the tempo. Figure out if you're pausing or not. And then, yeah, reset in between reps. All right. Next video. This is Tyler. Oh, back at Betroflex. There's a one-board bench press. Usually, with board stuff, I like pausing it rather than doing touch and go. Tends to, like, shift forwards and backwards. Yeah. There's nothing really wrong with those benches. I would just, I would probably pause those, to be honest. Because, again, the board just tends to move on the chest. But, yeah, bar path looked pretty good from here. Again, from the bench press, front 45 angle is just, eh, not really that useful. I know in this particular gym, you know, it's really hard to film just from the side. This is a 295. Looks like a one-board, might be a one-and-a-half-board bench. Oh, that bench block. But that's pretty good. But I would film profile, because then you can see the bar path a lot better. But it does look like the amount of elbow tuck is appropriate for the grip width that you selected and your anthropometry. So that's good. Tempo looks pretty good. I would just probably pause these. And then, you know, you're kind of stuck with these commercial gyms. You can't really do a lot of leg drive because the back... And 120 kilos. Oh, look at the arch. I'm super jelly. Yeah. Really good elbow position. Really good touch point. A good set of touch-and-go benches. Great leg drive, too. A lot of superlatives. Nice job, dude. All right. Last bench video. Way more squats. People are, like, really in their head about squats. Which I get. I feel like it's a technical movement. I feel like a bench press is just as technical, especially once you get good at it. Or think you're good at it, anyway. All right. Next video. This is Tim. Oh, I got some elbow sleeves. All right. Yeah. Nice retraction. Okay. Yeah. So, let's go back. We'll watch this again. So, when the weight comes out, I'm looking to see that the person's actually retracting their shoulders, their shoulder blades. A lot of people do this before they unrack the bar, which is fine. I definitely do that as well. But I got to do it kind of again once the weight comes out, to the extent you can. So, I do see that here. So, that's good. And then if we play the rep, yeah, it kind of, like, collapses or just, you know, not falls. But it was, like, under tension for the first half, like, slowing the tempo down. And it kind of just sped up. Went down to his chest. And you see the bar kind of, like, oscillate, go up and down. And then as soon as he goes to press it, the bar path is compromised. And so, he even looked at his hand. It looked like his left hand kind of opened a little bit at the top. So, if you're going to pause it, that's cool. Maintain tension. Don't just let it kind of pin you, collapse, or whatever. So, I actually think about pushing my chest up into the bar, for example. Or, like, there was a piece of glass between my shirt and my chest. And I want the bar to touch the glass but not break it during the pause. So, I'm kind of, like, applying tension to the bar. And then, when it's time to press, I'm trying to push that thing back towards the rack. Not up. If it goes straight up, the bar's forward. That's dead. Not, like, actually you're going to die, but dead as far as the bench press performance goes. So, you want to push it up and back towards the rack. Leg drive helps for sure. Also, making sure that your elbow's in the right position, which seemed okay. But I don't like that sort of, like, okay, bar comes down, kind of pinches you, kind of let it settle, and then heave it off there. I don't really like that particular style of bench press unless you can maintain perfect position. That, I feel like we can improve a little bit. All right. On to deadlifts. First deadlift. This is a read. 255, 257.5. So, 568. All right. Yeah, you did a good job keeping the bar on your legs. Oh, yeah, and stare at the camera. All right, cool. I just want to show you guys something. We'll just frame through this real quick. All right. So, we start here. I'm just going to frame through. When he goes to pull, that's where he thinks he's starting the pull, right? But the bar is a little too far forward and the hips are a little too low. So, the plates will not leave the floor until his hips are a little higher, knees are a little straighter, and the shoulders are just a little bit further over the bar. Right there. Beep. Now, the plates are leaving the floor. I'd have him start there. Also, because I think he can set his back a little bit better if he doesn't have that sort of swing, that movement before the bar leaves the floor. We'll see how many times in today's or this week's form check that I say the same thing. All right. This is Phillip. Looks conventional here. Kind of looks like he's on his toes. You see at the top, like heels are up a little bit. I don't know if that's an artifact of the shoe. His pulls look pretty smooth, though, overall. Just think that there's a little bit of slack in the bar. You can tell that because when he goes to pull, he kind of pulls his T-spine, his mid-back out of position. I think you pull the slack out maybe a little bit more, but the bar is just a little bit forward. Yeah. Just like a little slack in the system. So, we'll do that first, and maybe everything will look better. All right. This is Peter. What is the weight here? Hey, look. All right. I'm going to pause this. Notice on the side there's two 2.5 kilo plates. Guys, put the 5 on there. Or, if there's a 10 and a 5, get the 15. Do it for me. Don't do it for you. Do it for me. All right. That's my OCD speaking. A good start position. Notice the hips don't move before the bar leaves the floor. Back is in pretty good extension. Mm-hmm. I would pause at the top. Like, stand up straight at the top. Puff your chest out. Wait for applause, if applicable. Yeah. These are pretty solid deadlifts. They're just really light for you. Nice. I would just, again, at the top, I would just stop, pause for a beat. Stand up tall. And then, yeah, good to go. But your back position's good. Hip position's good. Somebody's going to tell you that your hips are too high. Don't listen to them. They're wrong. You can take it with me. Yeah, dude. Yeah, just finish the reps each time. Nice. All right. Dylan, all the way from Israel. We've got videos from Denmark to Israel to I don't know where. Hey, when you send me your videos, let me know where you're from. This is so cool. People just send me videos from all over the world. This is so much fun. Straps. Okay. That's cool. I like using straps sometimes. Particularly if my hands are beat up. But, okay. I probably would have trimmed this out. If I had to pick, I would have trimmed this out. But, hey, man, I'm giving you a pass. Also, if you just roll the bar, it'll help take the extra bit of the strap up so you don't have to, like, do it by hand. Okay. Dylan. Yeah, so the bar's too far forward. All right. So this next rep will actually stop at the bottom. Okay. We're stopping at the bottom. So right here, you guys can see. So his gaze is down. As I've said on the squats, I'd probably move it out 6 to 10 feet. Maybe even further on the deadlift. Maybe 10 to 15 feet. Out in front rather than straight down. Again, I think people just tend to do that. They round their T-spine. Not in an advantageous way like Konstantinov used to, for example. But just kind of, like, where they're looking. Just tend to adopt that posture. But, yeah, the bar's too far forward. Knees are too flexed, too bent. And the hips are too low. And so what's going to have to happen here is the hips are going to need to rise up first. Knees are going to need to straighten a little bit before the bar leaves the floor. And we'll... Yep. Now the plates have left the floor. Notice where the hips are. Notice the amount of knee flexion. And the problem with that dynamic movement is that it's really difficult to keep the bar on the legs. And so from here, it looks like the right side of the bar is off the legs. Let's watch the rest of the set. Yep, it was. And don't lean back at the top. Dylan, come on, man. I mean, this is, what, 110, 150, 170 kilos? 374 for a set of, I don't know, seven? It's just the hips are too low. And then the gaze is too far down. Look out. Raise your butt up. Keep the bar on your legs. And at the top, stand up tall. Yeah. And next time, cut the strap set up. All right. So next bit of the video, this is Elon, not Elon. I think he said he had some problems hitching. I don't know if we see that on this video. The hips are low. And it looks like he tries to lean back too soon. Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to frame through this third rep with you guys. All right. So here's, he's setting his back. Notice where his hips are. Notice where the shoulders are in relation to the barbell. Hips have to go boop. There. Now the plates have left the floor. Shoulders in front of the bar slightly. He's looking, I don't know, right in front of him. So you guys already know what I would do. I'm going to move his gaze out. And I would have moved his hips up. Okay. So that's the set, the start position we should probably fix. So bar is just about to get to the knees. And he's already starting to lean back. Already starting to get behind the bar. Why? Because depending on how much you weigh versus the weight on the barbell, you can lever your body mass against the bar and get it to accelerate, get it to move up your legs until the weight gets too heavy. And then you get stuck. And once you get stuck, you're only left with one solution. If your shoulders and chest are behind the bar, the bar is in front of you on your quads, how are you going to finish the rep? You got to hitch. And so right here, shoulders are behind the bar. If that barbell weighs 2x body weight, he's going to hitch. Or at least be at risk of hitching once the weight gets circummaximal for him and far outstrips his body weight. And so the cue I use there is keep your shoulders over the barbell. So for him, I'm going to raise his butt at the start. I'm going to make his gaze go out a little bit further. And then I'm going to cue him to keep his shoulders over the barbell until it passes his knees. And then he can start to lean back, stand up straight. Let's just see his lockout. Yeah, again, I would just pause for a beat at the top. All right, next deadlift. This is Brian. What is that? 617? He's had his biceps reattached like five months ago. Left biceps, I think he said. Yeah. Okay, so I can't see much from the front. My preferred view on a deadlift is like either directly profile or front oblique 45 in contrast to the squat where I like either, again, profile or posterior oblique. Bench press I usually like to view directly from the side mostly. In any case, let's watch this rep again. I can tell he's in a pretty good position because the plates don't roll. I can look at the logo on the plates. They don't really move. It's not a surefire way to tell that they're in the right position. Between that and him not being able to see his body actually move, like hips move up before the weight leaves the floor, you can tell he's in a pretty efficient pulling position. Yeah, and the bar stays on the legs all the way up. Nice job, dude. All right, this is Leonardo. This dude was in a motorcycle accident. Went down to Grand Cayman for a powerlifting meet with Claire. And yeah, he DMed me so he was going to be there. Oh, he's deadlift. Okay. All right, so we're going to frame through this guy. This is where he, this is the bottom. He thinks he starts to pull here. Hips have to go up. Shoulders have to go forward. And that's where the plates have left the floor. And you see the, a lot of kyphosis in the thoracic spine, the mid-back. And you look at his gaze. I think we could probably improve efficiency here. That's probably not the most efficient way to pull from him. The bar was actually off of his quads on the way up. So it looked like his knees extended too fast compared to the rate of hip extension. So knees extended too quickly before the hips. And so the bar was actually away from his quads. And so, all right, if I had to cue you, Leonardo, we'll just watch this again together. I would raise your hips up a little bit. These are still going to be out to the side because you're doing sumo. Squeeze your chest up a little bit taller. Look out, not straight down. And then as the bar leaves the ground, you get to lean back. It's in contrast to the previous one where the guy was leaning back too quickly. Not leaning back enough here. Yeah, that's where I'd start. But I'm glad you're feeling better. Back to training, man. See you at the next meet. All right, next video. This is Jonathan. This is 425. I like that. It's kind of, it's like the aliens. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. I wonder what shoes are those. That's some sick boots, dude. Oh, it's like a Kuklaev. Yeah, Mikhail Kuklaev used to pull like this. Basically dropping the hips way, way low and then kind of trying to use this dynamic start. It doesn't really work like that because you're not getting any stretch reflex. It was just, in my opinion, a personal stylistic choice, if you will. Although I do think the risk of not pulling from the right position goes up. But, you know, Mike T does a little something like this. Mikhail used to do something like this. So, but I think, I think actually your hips should be even higher before you actually start to pull. You can break the bar off the floor. Yeah. Yeah, the bar's going to move faster if your hips are even higher when you actually go to pull the bar. It will leave the ground because it's a maximal for you. It's going to feel harder than it should. Yeah. And even on the last one, as you get more fatigued, the hips get higher and higher and higher. Shoulders get further and further forward in the bar. So, you can keep using the dynamic start if you want to. Just be patient. Just be patient to get to the right position before you start to pull. But, hey man, sweet boots. Oh, Sjogren again. What is this? 240, 528. All right. I mean, the position is good because you don't see the hips move prior to the bar leaving the floor. That one, yeah, pretty good. And hook grip, so nice. Just stand up tall at the top, pluck your chest out. Yeah. I just don't want the judges to ever call somebody on, like, you know, not locking out all the way on a deadlift. Yeah. Last few looked a little bit better. But just, you know, finish a little puffed out chest. Deadlifts are one of the only times we get to do this, like, deliberate, conscious sort of thoracic extension at the top. And I think if we want to train that movement, just do it double duty with the deadlifts. And so you can maybe lean back and get green lights or white lights at a powerlifting meet. But I would make sure to, at least in training, try to puff your chest out at the top. Don't lean back. That's not really what we want to do here. Just stand up tall. And then, I think, again, puffing your chest out a little bit. This is Taliesin. I think this is 635. Yeah. Yeah, the hips are a little too low, and the bar is having a tough time staying on your legs. That's why it's kind of wiggling around. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know that I love the head nod at the top. People do it, but... Yeah. Ooh, you got it. You dropped a deadlift. Taliesin! Don't drop the deadlift, man. Don't drop the bar. Okay. Let's frame through this. All right. So here, this is at the bottom. Big yank. And the bar's not going to leave the floor till... Here. Look how much higher the hips are than where he started the yank at. And so because of that movement, there's risk of the bar going away from the legs, making it much harder to pull. Slowing down how quickly it comes off the floor. It just makes the rep a fight. And so I would raise the hips up. I probably wouldn't yank on the bar. It's really try to squeeze all the slack out of the bar. And then, you know, let her rip. And then I just... I wouldn't drop the... I wouldn't drop the bar. All right. All right. Next video. This is Tim. Can't really see much here from the front. We've got a car on the way. All right. That start position is good. And what a great shirt. Yeah. No, I like that a lot. The only thing is at the top, Tim, puff your chest out. Stand up tall. Puff your chest out just a little bit. Doesn't mean lean back. Don't squeeze your shoulder blades together. None of that stuff. Just puff your chest out. This is... Okay. Yeah. This is Dr. F. Another Dr. F. So Dr. F to Dr. F. Thank you for submitting this. What is the weight? 3.95? Oh, pounds. Not kilos. Okay. I bet you guys already know what I'm going to say. I mean, the hips are a little low, as you guys can tell. And just leaning back at the top, I would just stand up tall. But you're doing... You know, as another Dr. F, you're doing well here. I just... I would. I would raise your hips up. Yep. Okay. Okay. Hey, we're back in action. You know, tech support for your lifts. Again, I'm Jordan Feigenbaum. Thank you for tuning in. If you guys enjoyed the video, like, comment, subscribe, do all that sort of stuff. If you want to be on the channel, send me your videos, mediabarbellmedicine.com. Again, multi-rep sets better than a single rep effort. I can do that too. And then, you know, if you guys have questions, send them to that same email address. And maybe we'll do some just Q&A type stuff. I don't know. We'll see what happens. But glad to be back on YouTube channel. Glad that you watched. And we'll see you next time.