 All right, And so if you have somebody who just set aside the drug altogether for the moment and just all comers who are coming to start training, you're going to have some people who are super freaks. You put them on a training program. They squat two sets a week, and they blow up. They get super strong. They get super jacked. They turn into Charlie. You take other people who are much more training resistant. You get them training. You crank up their training volume, their intensity. You have to employ all sorts of programming tricks, and they progress super slowly, if at all. They stall out early, and they get frustrated because maybe they're not responding as quickly as the guy that they see on the other side of the gym. That is the natural order of things. I'll put it that way, right? And then everybody is distributed somewhere in between. You're going to have a lot of average responders, some high responders, some low responders. The way I would think about this in terms of anti-obesity medicines is in the same way there's going to be a curve distribution of response to people trying to lose weight. There are going to be some people who have an easier time losing weight and sustaining weight loss. Some people are going to have a harder time losing weight and sustaining weight loss. The anti-obesity medicine, like ozempic or any of these other ones that are popular, of course, at the moment, will just shift that curve to make it easier for more people to achieve and maintain clinically significant weight loss. In the same way that if we took the people who came to the gym at the beginning and put them on anabolic steroids, it will increase their sensitivity. It will shift the curve in the other direction. More of them will have an easier time achieving a certain level of strength, muscularity, outcomes, things like that. And so when it comes to this question more directly now, how much training do you need to preserve muscle mass while in an anti-obesity medicine? Now we're just kind of crossing these two variables. You're going to have people who have a wide distribution in their training responsiveness. You're going to add in the kind of wrinkle or the additional variable of the anti-obesity medicine that might alter people's training responsiveness a little bit. But it's pretty likely that the freaks are going to remain the freaks and maybe they only need a set a week or no sets to maintain their muscle for a while. And there are going to be some people who need to train a lot more if they want to maintain their strength and muscle mass. And unless you already have a sense of that beforehand based on your training responsiveness before you started on the medicine, you're unlikely to otherwise have a great sense of that when you start the medicine. And it's going to be something you can only figure out and determine kind of in retrospect. Yeah. I think about like a study design where you could actually like come up with some sort of normalized data like, hey, on average, this is what you'd need and here's the range, right? So you would have people who are untrained, right? They've not been exposed to resistance training recently. So maybe for the last year or two, because I think we would both agree that it's improbable that somebody starting an anti-BCA medication like Wegovi, Cemaglutide, ZepBound, whatever, for them to preserve as much muscle mass as possible. So without resistance training, like you're going to have to do some. Okay. So then you would just have to stratify, okay, these people got one set per week of whatever, leg press. These people got two sets per week. These people got three sets all the way up to like, I don't know, 15 sets, right? And what I would expect to see is a sort of graded response where you like get up to some sort of maximum. Like, wow, these people on average are preserving the maximum amount of muscle mass, perhaps even building new muscle mass. Yes. You know, gaining muscle mass, particularly if they're untrained before. And then it starts to taper off. I don't know that it tapers off completely where you see a sort of negative, although it's possible that could happen. So, yeah, that would be the study design, you know, to sort of look at this just from a very simplified view. As far as practically like, okay, well, great. You guys neck bearded this thing for five minutes. Like, what do I actually do here? I think we can all agree that they're going to need some level of resistance training. I think for most people, preserving a large majority of their muscle mass could be achieved by just meeting the current physical activity guidelines, which is twice per week of resistance training, hitting all major muscle groups, using eight to 10 exercises at an intensity that's pretty uncomfortable at the end. And I think if you just checked that box, which to be clear, almost nobody is doing right now. Anyway, broadly speaking, the general population, people would do a lot better than what they're currently doing as far as muscle mass preservation goes. And that should be caveated by I don't think that there is this like crazy amount of muscle mass loss going on with anti-obesity medications in general. I think that is mostly an inappropriately voiced concern. What's really happening is people are losing more weight than they ever would have been able to lose with lifestyle change alone. And there's a proportional amount of lean body mass loss that comes with that. As you lose more weight, you will lose more lean body mass. But not all of that is skeletal muscle mass. It's just anything that's not fat. So water, glycogen, various sort of protein and other tissues, and sure, some skeletal muscle mass. But because these people are losing far more than what folks can lose with lifestyle change alone, generally speaking, yeah, they're going to lose more lean body mass. I still think, though, that just meeting the physical activity guidelines is likely to get most people pretty close to like maximizing the amount of muscle preservation. Some folks are going to need more than that. Some folks are going to need a lot more than that, you know, just because the variation in response. But I can't see myself really recommending that everybody double the current physical activity guidelines for resistance training in order to prevent this, you know, potential loss of muscle mass. I think that would be a step too far. Yeah. And if I'm working one-on-one with a person and trying to come up with some actual concrete guidelines, I'm also going to take into account what their historic type of physical activity is and what their goals are. So some people, like maybe somebody in our audience, might actually be motivated and they want to be as strong and jacked as they can while they use these medicines. And I'm like, okay, well, we're going to train as if you're trying to gain muscle mass. Yeah, exactly. And we'll hope to, you know, retain as much as we can, and there's actually a chance you could gain some. And other people who might be like, look, I hate lifting weights and I'm willing to do the bare minimum. Just tell me what that bare minimum is, at which case I'm going to, just like I would starting somebody, anybody else out who's untrained, I'm going to start them low and then see how much I can negotiate with them over time. Maybe they find they don't hate it as much as they thought. Maybe they're willing to do a little bit more than they thought once they enjoy some of the benefits. And maybe not. And I'll try to settle out at what's the highest amount that I can get them to that they're willing to tolerate. Maybe that's, you know, four sets a week across two sessions. Okay. Well, I'm going to make those two sets per session. Probably going to make them pretty hard if I can negotiate that with them and then, you know, see how they respond. And if they find, yeah, I'm actually retaining, I don't feel like I'm losing muscle or strength, then great. Or if they feel like I could, I'm willing to do a little bit more, cool. I might bump you up and try to see if I can get you doing a little bit more. So that's how I would approach it in practice one-on-one with somebody. Yeah, pretty much any time I get one of these minimum dose kind of questions, whether it's like, what's the least amount of training I can do to like maintain my current strength, muscle mass? Or like, what's, you know, what's the minimum amount of training I need to do to, you know, for health? And it's like, I just come at it from the exact opposite. I'm like, well, how much can I get you to do? Yeah. Because generally speaking, the more exercise you do, the fitter that you get. And so I want you to do the most that you can. And the two constraints are logistics, like how much time do you have, resources do you have, whatever. And then your physiological tolerance, how much training can you do and still recover from it? And I want to get you up to that point. You know, like, what's the most, how much can I borrow here? Like, that's what I'm going to do to max that out. Yep. All right. All right.