 Ifr 2020 2020ibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibt into chemotherapy for colon cancer. Do you want to do like a layperson interpretation of what that study title actually means? Yeah, sure. So basically, when you have any form of cancer, there are various types of treatment modalities that people can get. And so there can be people might be familiar with chemotherapy, which is usually just drugs of some kind that are ideally targeted towards that particular biology of the cancer that the person has, whether it's a solid tumor in any particular organ, or it's what we'll call a liquid tumor or a hematologic or a blood-based cancer like leukemias. All these things are different diseases. So this is important when people talk about just like, quote unquote, a cure for cancer. Each cancer is an individual, you know, subset, and arguably each individual person's particular tumor that they have has its own unique biology. And the ideal scenario, which we're getting closer and closer to each year, is better defining the individual biology of each person's cancer and trying to target it with kind of the most modern, you know, agents that we have. So you can use chemotherapy in various different ways. You can use chemotherapy prior to surgery, for example, to try to shrink a tumor, to make it easier to take out. You can give people chemo, ideally to just actually cure, resolve the cancer itself. Or you can use it after some of these treatments as well. This can be paired with other things like surgery to try to cut out a tumor if it's amenable to that. Or you can use a targeted radiation therapy. And these can, again, be used in various combinations and in various sequences to try to achieve disease remission to the extent you can. And so part of this idea of combining therapies, you can have things that are called like adjuvants that can be kind of paired with another form of treatment, ideally to enhance the overall treatment effect. And so this is a trial that is using chemotherapy. And then you're trying to combine it with the application of exercise after that treatment to see how does this impact their outcomes after going through their chemotherapy and surgical treatment kind of upfront. Yeah, perfect. All right. So this study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine, June. Most of the study took place in Canada and Australia. And so some background information. So colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer globally, second most leading cause of death. The typical treatment, as Dr. Baraki mentioned, is surgery and chemo for localized cancer. It does change if the cancer has spread, for example. But it does recur quite often, 20 to 40 percent. You know, again, then there are unique differences in various types of colorectal cancers in certain populations. That all being said, exercise can reduce the risk of cancer. And that's just broadly speaking for all types of cancers. So it can reduce the risk of developing cancer, can reduce the disease burden for certain types of cancer, and it can reduce or improve the disease-free survival. So like not getting cancer again after it's been treated. So exercising in cancer, pretty good evidence that it can be beneficial. So for example, in a systematic review and meta-analysis of 16 studies involving several hundred thousand participants, strength training reduced the risk of any cancer diagnosis by 12 percent and death from cancer by 15 percent, independent of aerobic exercise activities. Now for colorectal cancer specifically, a meta-analysis of 21 studies found that those who exercised the most had about a 25 percent lower risk of developing colon cancer compared to the least active individuals. Overall, more exercise is generally better for risk reduction and improving quality of life. And the impact on the cancer-specific risk depends on the type of cancer, which is highly variable, but exercise is generally beneficial for reducing the risk of developing cancer, reducing the risk of its reoccurrence, and reducing death from cancer in addition to quality of life. I think what people say exercise prevents cancer. Both of our eyes get a little big, and then they roll to the back of our head because we're like, I mean, all types of cancer, that's probably not true, but like most types of cancer that, you know, develop later on in life that can potentially be impacted by lifestyle, sure, exercise is beneficial, but like some things that are mostly genetic, probably not a big effect on the cancer risk itself, but certainly could improve quality of life. That's kind of where I'm starting from, my baseline here. Yeah, this is just reflecting, again, how cancer is not one thing. And so when somebody says that, I'm like, gosh, there are a lot of cancers that I would not expect to have any significant, you know, response from a prevention standpoint to exercise. That's not to say that those patients shouldn't, because if you develop cancer, again, the better shape you are going into treatment, the better shape you maintain while you're being treated, the better shape you have after treatment, the better your overall outcomes are going to be in general. But to say that it's going to prevent certain types of, I mean, there are some where it's like, if you have this gene, you are overwhelmingly likely to get this cancer, no matter what you do from a lifestyle standpoint. And there are others that are super, super lifestyle responsive. And some of those are the ones, especially like a lot of the obesity associated cancers, or if someone has, you know, I can think of indirect ways, if somebody has like, you know, pretty significant fatty liver disease, it's like, that responds pretty nicely to like high intensity exercise and to, you know, pretty modest weight loss. And so that's a way by which you could say, well, yeah, it's preventing liver cancer, quote unquote. Well, it's one particular type of liver cancer that can develop in a subset of people who have fatty liver disease that persists long enough to generate that risk. But that's a very different claim and a lot less sexy than it just like prevents cancer, broadly speaking. Do you ever feel like we like are the crushers of joy? You know, like people will say something like, like exercise is good for cancer. And we're like, well, actually, there's, we did. I do think, you know, if we're trying to be good science communicators, then the information needs to be correct, it needs to be accessible, and we need to not embellish. Because I do think that as much as in misinformation kind of harms, so does like, misinformation that's embellishing the effect of something that's also harmful, I think. Yeah, I, this takes me back to a lot of, you know, things in the past five to 10 years that have happened in the public health space, and then conversations around it. And I agree that accuracy matters here. And yeah, to your point, it might seem trivial or annoying that we say things like this. But we've seen the kind of more advanced conclusions that get drawn when this stuff is not delivered in a very clear, accurate way. And the most obvious example in my mind that I tend to think about is during the pandemic time, when there was this idea, and this heralds from, you know, people who don't necessarily buy in entirely to concepts of germ theory, and they're more into the, like, quote, unquote, terrain theory that like, the problem is not that the pathogen or the virus or the bacteria exists, but rather that the person's body is sufficiently unhealthy, that it left them vulnerable to getting this disease. And so then it's just if you are healthy, then you won't get this disease. And then that gets into, you know, effectively a ton of patient blaming and for getting sick. And so it's not to say that, you know, population wide health couldn't improve for sure. But it led to a pretty, I don't know, aggressive lack of empathy for people who got ill, just because maybe it's like, oh, well, they died of COVID. Well, were they that they, you know, have a excess body fat? Did they have high blood pressure? It was that it was their fault for not exercising enough to be healthy enough to not die from COVID. And so we don't love those conclusions, because even if you are quite healthy, you know, you can also get quite ill and potentially die from things, regardless of that. So it is Yeah, we big fans of exercise here. But I think that that's part of why we aim to deliver kind of accurate, nuanced messaging around it, rather than making overly broad sweeping claims like, well, if you just exercise more than nothing bad will ever happen to you from a medical health standpoint or something like that. Yeah, ever. Yeah, you're protected, 100% effective. Yeah. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the study. So it's just under 900 subjects, the average age was 61 is about half women, half men. Now all the subjects had undergone surgical resection of stage three or high risk stage two colon cancer, plus they completed chemo within the last six months. And importantly, they were insufficiently active, they're not meeting the physical activity guidelines to be enrolled in the study, but they were also able to exercise. So those are a couple important criteria for inclusion in the study. Now they got randomized to either a health education group or a structured exercise group. Now in the health education group, these folks basically got handouts on health education. So like exercise and nutrition, and standard sort of disease specific follow up, they didn't see like a behaviorist, for example, they didn't see a physical activity consultant, which I assume is just like, it's almost like legalese for like a trainer. Yeah. So that was the health education group. The other group was the structured exercise group. Now they got three years of ongoing support from again, physical activity consultant, personal trainer, I don't know. Yeah. Plus they got the health education materials, plus they got an exercise guidebook for colon cancer survival survivors. This exercise was conditioning only so no resistance training. And I think about this like exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors that was just aerobic training. Like who wrote that? Yeah. And like, and like, what are the specific considerations? Like, show me? Yeah. Yeah. Like maybe walk, maybe ride a bike, maybe like do whatever you want. Yeah. My understanding also, I think I think the supplement that laid out some of the stuff relating to the exercise protocol here was very lengthy and detailed, which raised some concerns or some commentary around like the practical feasibility or external validity of this for generalizing to the rest of the population. If it was like pretty elaborate and detailed kind of protocol that was, that was in the supplement of this paper. Yeah. Yeah. As far as outcomes, they, for fitness related outcomes, they measured adherence. They also measured a sub maximal VO2 max test to see like, well, did they get fit or when they did the exercise, the group who was doing the exercise compared to the group who just got the regular health education. And they did a six minute walk test, which is exactly what it sounds like. You get a timer for six minutes. How far can you walk from health outcomes? They measured disease free survival. So how long the people went without getting this type of cancer again, overall survival, which is exactly what it sounds like. So death from any cause and adverse events among another handful of other outcomes that don't really change the kind of take on this paper. So we'll limit it to that as far as results go. So one thing to speak to your point earlier about like the feasibility of this, it took 15 years to recruit enough patients and colorectal cancer is like pretty common. And most individuals with colorectal cancer can exercise. And I would assume that since most people don't exercise, that most of these patients also were insufficiently active. So I don't know exactly why it took so long, but I suspect it was like, Hey, would you be interested in this study? Like you're going to, you may have to exercise. And people were like, uh, challenging. I mean, I obviously don't know the details of like why the recruitment was so difficult, but for it to take 15 years for a pretty common condition like this, that is concerning. Yeah. I agree. I see people with this and similar types of conditions all the time. And most of them, I'm like, yeah, you'd be a candidate for exercise in this type of a study. So it is an interesting question. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, now at baseline, um, both groups averaged about three hours per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity. The average six minute walk test result was about 530 meters in six minutes. And if, for those of you wondering the normal, uh, kind of six minute walk test for an adult is between 400 to 700 meters. So they were insufficiently physically active insofar as they weren't meeting the guidelines, but they were able to basically give a normal functional test. In this case, a six minute walk test. So that was a baseline. Now, after the intervention, the first thing I want to talk about is adherence. This, this was generally bad, right? Uh, only about half of the exercise group attended the recommended exercise sessions that weren't mandatory throughout the study. Uh, two thirds of the exercise group attended the mandatory behavioral support sessions. So I'm like, we're not doing so hot here. Uh, and ultimately it's like, okay, so they weren't really, and it progressively got worse throughout the study as well. So already we're like, man, this is challenging. And I thought one of the interesting things was they made this big to do about evidence-based behavior change sort of, you know, uh, theory and a bunch of references to it. And I'm like, okay, well, how evidence-based is this stuff if it didn't really work? Yeah. I mean, I think this to some extent is a, almost a natural history of any behavior change intervention. We see in terms of adherence to dietary interventions, adherence to exercise interventions, it is naturally gonna, there's going to be some attrition with time. Uh, so that's not terribly surprising. I think that the higher of an adherence you're able to achieve and maintain throughout a study, the more confident you are going to be that the differences in, in groups longitudinally are like related to differences in their actual exercise and the effects of that exercise compared with other things. Cause then you start to wonder what sorts of things led to that attrition led to those, uh, led to that drop-off, et cetera. Yeah. You would also expect that if there were differences in like cancer recurrence in, uh, mortality and quality of life or whatever, you would also expect there to be a big difference in like physical fitness. And then you'd be like, oh, well, it was probably due to the fitness then. But in this case that didn't really happen. So for example, the group who was randomized to the exercise group, the structured exercise group, they only did about an hour to an hour and a half more exercise per week than the health education group. So they were both of the, both groups were exercising and it just wasn't that much more in the exercise only group, which leads to the sort of predicted outcomes. The VO2 max wasn't really different, at least not clinically significant because it was less than the minimal clinically important difference in VO2 max change. So like, I can't tell you that their VO2 max has got better because it wasn't a big enough difference for me to be confident about that. The six minute walk test. Yeah. If you were in the exercise group, you walked about 13 to 30 meters longer, which is again, less than the minimal clinically important difference. So I'm like, this is just an artifact pops possibly of retesting these individuals. Uh, now what you've probably heard about in the headline, if you're tuned into this stuff was that after a follow-up of about eight years, there was a 28% reduced risk of disease recurrence. So cancer recurrence or death from cancer in the exercise group compared to the health education group. Whoa, 28%. That's effectively better than all chemotherapy agents we have for, for this particular condition. Um, it also reduced the, uh, number of recurrent colon cancer cases. So there were 65 individuals in the exercise group who got colon cancer again versus 81 patients in the health education group. Uh, exercise also reduced the risk of new primary cancers that weren't colon cancer. So for example, 23 patients in the exercise group, yeah, I had some other type of cancer that developed in the follow-up versus 42 patients in the health education group. And so if that was the headline, if you read something on CNBC or whatever, you'd be like, yep, exercise, it's a panacea, preventing cancer, preventing death from cancer, more exercise. And actually I'm not, I don't hate that because maybe that encourages more people to exercise, even though it's wrong. This is implausible that people had that much of a reduced risk of cancer recurrence in this timeframe. We'll, we'll get to that in a second. The only other thing I wanted to talk about with results before we kind of do this interpretation thing was that, uh, of adverse events. So 79 patients in the exercise group and 53 patients in the health education group reported musculoskeletal adverse events, presumably injuries. They didn't really talk about this much in the supplemental material. Uh, eight were considered to be related to the exercise intervention in the exercise group, which I guess if there was a silver lining of the study, you're like, look, man, about 900 people were randomized here and half of them, uh, did the extra structured exercise group and only eight into eight years of follow-up had some sort of like musculoskeletal complaint that was due to exercise. Like, cool, cool. I guess that's not terribly concerned about that feels like a favorable trade-off to whatever extent the benefits are true. Uh, it'd be a worthwhile trade-off. Yeah. So my interpretation, first off, is this 28% reduced risk of cancer recurrence or death from disease? Is that real? Seems implausible. I mean, it is probably net good. I mean, I think I'm, I feel confident that yeah, exercise generally is net good for cancer recurrence, cancer prevention, cancer, a quality of life with cancer, you know, all that sort of stuff, but it's not reducing the risk of disease in patients with cancer already by 28%. That seems highly unlikely. Uh, and there's been some other commentary on the study with respect to like how quickly were the results sort of recognized versus the time course of the, the, the disease in general. So I don't know, does this seem plausible to you? Are you, are you in agreement that this seems highly unlikely? This, I would say this changes little to nothing about my general advice relating to exercise as it pertains to patients with cancer. Like I'm still recommending it as enthusiastically as, as ever. Uh, but I'm not couching that in the claims of you're going to be way, you know, this, this specific, uh, percentage less likely to experience cancer, you know, recurrence, new cancer, die from cancer, et cetera. I'm, I think seeing some, some, uh, replication of something like this would increase our confidence if, if it was able to replicate. I think that, you know, you point out the discrepancy in like, well, one group exercise, the other didn't, uh, as you know, to the same extent, but the lack of, uh, kind of proportionate differences in their fitness outcomes makes it challenging to conclude that the, uh, whatever benefits are being reported are being mediated through this exercise based pathway. Right. And so it's like, you know, in, in other contexts, if we saw something that had a market, you know, cardiovascular, you know, impact and we're making claims around it impacted by way of like, you know, blood lipids or something, but then the group's blood lipids weren't significantly different. It's like, well, maybe that's not the mediating variable that we are, uh, actually, you know, uh, delivering this impact through if that impact is in fact real. So you have to have a sense of like, what is the proposed kind of causal pathway here? If they didn't get that much fitter for, uh, exercise to deliver this big of, of an impact. Cause in other areas, when we see, you know, in general, people who are like big responders to exercise training, uh, they tend to, you know, have robust responses in a lot of different areas. It's, it's less common for somebody to have a big robust response to exercise in just one area and then be like a non-responder in some other variable. Yeah. Uh, all right. Well, allow me to speculate. Tell me what you think about this. So if we agree that the fitness didn't actually improve between groups, there was not a big discrepancy on like the VO two max, for example, or the six minute walk test between groups, you know, like, well, they didn't really get much fitter. So maybe this potential benefit is not mediated through increased fitness, but it still could be, uh, uh, due to increased amounts of exercise, perhaps like energy expenditure. Right. Uh, so the, the mechanism that Ponsor talks about, for example, that if you're using a bunch of energy for exercise, you have less energy available to like fuel nefarious processes like cancer or inflammation, for example. So to me, that seems plausible, but like, ultimately we don't know because energy expenditure wasn't really measured here. We don't see a big difference in weight loss between the individuals. So to the extent that there was more energy expenditure, like, did they just counteract that by eating more because they didn't lose a bunch of weight and they're there. They have a medical process that's going on right now that actually does tend to cause weight loss. So like, and you, maybe you'd want to avoid that. I don't know. It seems plausible that that could be a potential mechanism, but overall, I just think that this amount of disease, risk reduction, mortality reduction, et cetera, seems to be a little high for what it probably, probably is. If they said, look, there's a 10% risk, you know, risk reduction in developing new cancer. If you exercise, even if there wasn't a big difference in like fitness or whatever, I'd be like, well, yeah, most people just didn't exercise. And so that's bringing the things down. But 10% I would buy. 28%, I'm like, it seems, if true, it's the most effective cancer treatment we've ever found for this particular condition, which seems again, unlikely. It's, I agree. There's plausibility to other pathways. I think that that's what we would need to determine before we can feel confident in this. And, and, you know, to what I said earlier, like, should this be replicated? Should this type of finding replicate? Then you would say, oh, this is increasingly, you know, plausible as an outcome, but then how are we getting there? What is the, what is the causal pathway? Because that would be valuable research for all sorts of reasons. Not just because exercise can do this, but also because maybe there are other ways that you can, you know, augment that causal pathway to get a similar survival benefit, you know, beyond just exercise alone. Maybe there are other ways to target the same thing. So identifying it is worthwhile if it's true. Yeah. So if I was doing a quality improvement project, how I would kind of like, it wouldn't exactly replicate this study, but it would give, I think, some maybe more practical sort of insights into what you do in the clinic, like with patients, particularly if you work in oncology. So one, I don't know that this recruitment process and then the behavior change delivery is feasible. Recruiting 15, taking 15 years, that's a non-starter. This intensive resource heavy sort of behavior change stuff that didn't really work anyway, it seems like, man, that probably cost a lot of money, a lot of time, et cetera, and didn't really pan out. So let's maybe train oncology professionals on how to not only recommend exercise, but also like deliver some sort of program to individuals. And let's compare outcomes in those that do participate and those who don't. And so then that would just give us a better insight, like, hey, is this feasible? It doesn't work, you know, in clinic. And I think that would be something I'd be more interested in seeing with more patients and maybe a more diverse set of cancers as well, just to get a better sense of, like, what is the potential impact? And maybe you could come up with, like, a potential benefit calculator, this, you know, interactive tool where it's like, look, if you start exercising, it is likely that you're going to see this benefit. And that might be motivation for people to start or stop. You know, like, you're like, look, man, you got this particular type of cancer. Exercise is going to be great for quality of life, but I can't tell you it's going to actually improve your survival. So people should know, should go into things with eyes wide open, I think. I would also have liked to see resistance training. It's like, if you wrote an exercise recommendation book for colorectal cancer survival, I don't know, you can just talk about aerobic training, like, you know, especially with the risk of sarcopenia from chemotherapy and this particular illness, like, how are you not talking about resistance training? Why wasn't that included? It seems, maybe it's just a tracking thing. Like, it's really difficult to track resistance training participation compared to, like, aerobic training. I don't know, but that was annoying to me. Yeah, it depends on the resources you have at your disposal to guide this exercise. If it is intensive in-person, you know, type training, that's much more straightforward. You know, I was participating, you know, with a colleague in a research study around exercise in cancer survivorship, basically, in patients who've survived their cancer. That study, there was a pilot study, and that was actually getting done just before pandemic. And then once that hit, it ended up shutting down subsequent research because we weren't able to have a much larger cohort of patients coming into the gyms at the time to do that. So to whatever unfortunate consequences that had, it did shut down that project at the time, but it was set up to involve both strength and some aerobic training as well. And that's something that, you know, in most, you know, areas of exercise oncology, of course, it needs to be pretty individualized to the patient, their symptoms, their limitations, their abilities, things like that, but ideally does include a component of both. And, you know, I think for the most frail, as in other contexts, the strength training is arguably a more important piece than the aerobic, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So for individuals who are either currently have a cancer diagnosis or are looking to reduce the risk of cancer, particularly colorectal cancer, I think both of us would still recommend exercise. Whether we're talking about prevention, whether we're talking about reducing disease risk, disease burden, improved survival, improved quality of life, big fans of exercise. I don't know what the exactly the percentage risk reduction there is out there. Again, that's going to be highly variable based on the individual and the type of cancer, et cetera. Again, we would recommend resistance training and aerobic training. And we also acknowledge that implementation is challenging just because behavior change is challenging. Yeah. Just like behavior change in any other area is challenging. It's no less challenging here. Arguably in many ways can be more challenging because a lot of times, you know, I've cited these data before that as soon as somebody gets a cancer diagnosis, about 75% of patients tend to decrease their level of physical activity like that day, basically, because suddenly you have this illness, you're sick, your self-concept changes around everything. And so it's only about 1% of people who somehow increase their level of physical activity after such a diagnosis. So we can do better there. Yeah. Plus add fiber to your diet, maybe consume fish, consider drinking coffee if you're not, like other things for colorectal cancer risk reduction.