 aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop on the podcast in the spring of 2021. She's obtained her PhD in sports science from the Auckland University of Technology. It is my pleasure to welcome back Dr. Carpenter to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where today we'll cover the research she did during her PhD program and her long-term experience with training her mom. Zoe, Dr. Carpenter, what's going on? That's me, I guess. I didn't realize it had been that many years since my last appearance. Honestly, it doesn't feel like that long ago. Yeah, I think you came to our New York seminar, so I think that like... Yeah, even that was, what was that, like two years ago already? Yeah, time flight, yeah. That's wild, yeah. Yep, so we'll just do this quarterly. We'll have a quadrennial between your appearances just to catch up on life. Yeah, but I think the last time I was on, I want to say I was still in the beginning stages of my PhD, and then I've obviously since gone to start and finish data collection and then finish writing my thesis and all that stuff. And then we moved, yeah, moved. We're still in California, but moved from LA out to Orange County. It's still easier to say we're in LA because, you know, we're like an hour away, whatever, but now we've got a house. Yeah, and you've been a speaker at many, yeah, international conferences. You're like an Adidas ambassador. Oh, it's been really fun. It's been really fun. So besides killing it, anything else going on? I mean, there's lots of things. I don't even know where to, yeah, lots of things, but like how much do you want to know? Yeah, I wish I would show you up. Yeah, we got some projects, some of them we're not ready to talk about yet, but they'll come to light soon. But basically we're still, I'm still doing the fitness career thing. I still love what I do. Yeah. Well, she's an excellent follow on all social platforms. I'll also link to our previous podcast if you want to get the origin story. But we'll hop right in. I was excited. I saw your paper that you obviously you'd link to and then pulled the whole paper. So how did you- That was a project. Yeah. How did you end up picking this topic? We'll cover the details about it, but it's on circuit training versus traditional resistance training. So how did you end up picking this topic? Was it chosen for you or were you like- No. So this was, okay. So specifically it's high intensity circuit training, high intensity. And that part is really important because my thesis is on resistance training in women specifically. And I found that when you talk about circuit training amongst the general population, most women, when they're like, oh, I do Barry's Bootcamp or Orange Theory or this and that popular. Exactly. A lot of the circuit training that they do, I found that they don't actually push their sets as hard as they could from a proximity to failure standpoint. And so I was thinking, okay, when you actually match the effort, what are the results between strength, body comp, all that stuff, hypertrophy, blah, blah, blah in women. And that question was something that I actually want to investigate since well before. My PhD, this is back when like years ago, I was living in San Diego still like 2017, 2018 timeframe, because obviously from all my years of working with women, we found that time is a very common barrier to regular exercise. And I think a lot of people can relate to this. And of course we know that circuit training is more time efficient. You'd get your workout done a lot faster. So I thought, okay, well, personally, I have a preference for the traditional strength training workouts where you do one set at a time and you rest for longer in between sets. I don't usually enjoy the circuit nature of the back-to-back exercises with short rest periods, but a lot of women do, and that's fine. But we didn't really have a lot of research at the time to say, well, based on these two popular modalities, if you want to have these results, this is the modality you should employ. If you want to have these other results, this is the other modality you should employ. And so I was thinking, okay, why don't we, how cool would it be if I actually set up a study to investigate exactly that? So that's kind of how it happened. And then I started my PhD. And then of course you think you're like, oh, I have this one question. I'm going to dive right in. No, it took like three, four years before I was even able to start data collection for that. And setting up the study design and getting that ethics approved and everything took like a year, you know, everything takes so much longer. So, you know, thankfully I was able to collect the data, answer my question, which was really cool. And even publishing a paper was so much work, so much work. So was obviously very excited. I got the news about that publication, that paper being accepted for publication this past April or so. I think it was actually the same, I think it was the same morning I was defending my thesis actually. So it was a pretty exciting day. Yeah. Like that morning I got the news and then like a few hours later I defended my thesis successfully, blah, blah, blah. So it was a big day. And then, and then it was like a couple months later it was actually published, but the timeline for that and the amount of work involved, honestly, it's made me have so much more respect for, for researchers who publish all the time, but also you become a lot more understanding of study design limitations and things like that. When you're like, oh, well now it makes sense why you couldn't do X, Y, Z, because logistically it's actually so much harder. Or if you were to try to implement, make these, enforce these requirements on your participants, you would have had one third of the people finishing the study, you know, things like that. So it was a big learning experience, but yeah, the biggest finding was one, unsurprisingly, the high intensity circuit training. So they did the same exercises, the same sets and reps in both, yeah, in both conditions. Don't, don't give away the plot. We gotta, we, yeah. Oh, okay. Okay. Don't go into the findings. Okay. Anyway, yes, it's published. It's very cool. I think it's great. It's great news for women all around. Yeah, no, I was, uh, yeah. When I read the title, I go, Ooh, this is interesting. Uh, mainly because, and to your point earlier, circuit training is popular, uh, not, not only just commercially, but also again, to your point for people to save time, they're like, Oh, well, I'll just minimize my rest periods. I'll do these exercises. Yes. And it's not that that's problematic on its face, but because that layout, that structure tends to result in a number of things. One, people use lighter weights. Two, people tend to stay further away from failure. Three, exercise selection often, uh, varies, you know, and so it just becomes a much different comparator to traditional resistance training. So I was really impressed with how you laid this out. You effectively matched everything except for people doing it back to back or were they resting? So yeah, the title of the paper, and I've linked it in the show notes below, it's open. You can get it on research gate. Uh, you can read the whole thing. It's titled effects of high intensity circuit versus traditional strength training on physiological responses in trained women. It's in the European journal of sports science. I see some friends on there as well. Got Dr. Eric Helms. We got Rachel, uh, how do you say, how do you say your last, her last name? Okay. It's exactly how it looked. Yeah. She's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. You star studded line up there. And so, yeah, as you mentioned, you took women, these are trained women and you randomize them into two groups. They were going to do circuit training or traditional resistance training three times a week, eight weeks. They did the same exact exercises. They used same relative loads. So it wasn't like, oh, if you're doing circuit training, you're doing this way lighter. No, it was all relative to their strength and how close to failure they were pushing. And yeah. So lifting the same amount of weight, the same reps in reserve, uh, by and large, in an 18 to 15 rep or eight to 15 rep range, uh, except for, yeah, one did them as a circuit and the other did them traditionally. And traditionally in this case, okay, you do a set rest three minutes or whatever. Correct. And yeah. So we really tried to control for as many variables as we realistically could. Um, and that was, that was the outcome. Yeah. So just on it before you even did went into data collection and, and got the data to look at, was your hypothesis, like, look, if they're lifting the same weights for about the same training load, like reps and, and total sets and stuff, just the rest periods between the specific exercises are different. Was your hypothesis, like, we think it's going to be about the same. Um, I want to say, I have to go back and read the paper. It's been so long since I wrote the paper. And now that I know the results, it's like, of course you look back and you're like, oh, of course, of course you predicted. I want to say, because there was, there was at least one similar study done in men where it was high intensity circuit training versus traditional circuit training. And they, they did find that strength of body comp was similar between the groups. So I want to say we were, we predicted at least for like, at least for the body comp, similar, uh, changes, but I'm not sure. I have to look back. I think the strength gains we predicted, maybe this traditional strength training group might have better strength gains. Yeah. So it's one or the other. Um, but I mean, we weren't, we weren't completely surprised by the results. Realistically. Having the benefit of recently rereading your paper, I believe, and again, when you're, when you guys are listening to this, go and read the paper, which I encourage you to do, because it's well-written and there's a lot of background information that would, even if you're not particularly interested in this specific question, all of the background information on training and, and, and, and predicted outcomes is super useful as a, as a health and fitness professional. But, uh, I believe that the thing was like, well, look, we think if we're lifting the same load, same relative, you know, same training load, proximity to failure of strength gains, hyper-perfect should be similar, but maybe there's a metabolic or like fat burn advantage potentially to the height, to the circuit training. Cause you're like, your heart rate's higher. Yeah. So, okay. Here's my first question before we, uh, you know, kind of give away some of the results, but we'll, we'll cover them in more detail. Yeah. One thing I didn't see in there, and this might just be, cause I'm getting older and just, I bypassed it. What was the difference in total time spent training per session? Yeah. Uh, so I think we may be alluded to it a couple of times. The reason why we were not able to run statistical analysis on that was that we weren't meticulously tracking their exact duration, which obviously in hindsight, you look when you're like, why am I, why am I thinking of doing that? So what we could say was approximately, uh, the high, high intensity circuit training group were finished with their session in approximately like 50 to 55 minutes from including the warmup, like dynamic warmup, all that stuff from beginning to end. Whereas the traditional strength training group close to closer to like 70, 75 minutes. And you're like, okay, that's only like 20, 25 minutes. That adds up a lot throughout the week. That's a lot of time. That's a big difference. And, um, so to me that was pretty significant. Um, so, and of course too, like even 50 minutes, you can do a shorter circuit training workout. You can do 30 minutes and get a lot done still. Totally. Um, but for us with, yeah. Like factoring in, okay, you gotta go to a gym. Theoretically, if somebody did have to do that, change clothes, rechange, drive home, travel to whatever, those minutes add up and could be the difference maker between, oh, this person can participate and adhere to a particular, you know, exercise program versus they're not even gonna try. If they're like, look, I got 80 minutes plus travel time, plus changing, plus whatever. Right. And how many people think that in their heads, they're like, oh, I don't have a full hour or whatever to dedicate. I'm not even gonna bother trying, but also, yeah. And I think obviously too, with the exercise, I think that all the time, and I have to remind myself any like 20 minutes is still worth doing 30 minutes is still worth doing. Any month. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and so that's kind of a message that I will try to remind people of all the time. But, um, you know, if, if you look at the exercise selection, am I allowed to talk about that right now? So we did, we did use obviously, you know, the, the findings should be able to be applied to different program designs, like different exercise selection. But of course, with the caveat that exercise selection and exercise order does matter. And if you see like the first circuit, the first three exercise circuit was, uh, like press, flat dumbbell bench press and trap bar deadlift. And we really try to, uh, first we did like, you know, upper, lower, lower, upper, upper, alternating lower upper exercises, which was great. And then we also tried to ensure that there was like minimal overlap between the muscles worked in back-to-back exercises as much as possible, uh, which I think did make a difference in terms of, um, the performance that people, you know, their, their performance in, in the working sets throughout the training design. So I would say, you know, if, if you have a good trainer, or if you know how to write a sound training program with the right exercise order, I think the results can be applicable to, like, let's say you only had several pairs of dumbbells. You can, you can swap them out for dumbbell variations and probably get similar results again, as long as you're pushing close to failure. That's what I think. Yeah. That was one of the, the probably most, uh, germane methodology things that you guys did is that really, which what they did for the, the high intensity circuit training group, what to basically try sets or giant sets, the three exercises you do back to back to back, but there was minimal overlap in one exercise to the next. So you went from left press to dumbbell bench. And so we would classically call that like an alternate peripheral type superset, for example. And then you did trap bar deadlifts after the dumbbell bench, which again, another alternate peripheral, um, uh, type superset. Now comparatively you could have done all upper together. So like dumbbell bench, uh, you know, another, uh, like shoulder press theoretically, if you were doing something like that and then chest flies, you didn't include those exercises in your thing. But if you did agonist, agonist, agonist, that would be a completely different setup than this alternate peripheral kind of setup. Yeah. And we, you know, we obviously intentionally avoided that. I think the way that we did it was the right way to do things. And if I think if your goal is to, uh, so to speak, optimize strength and body comp and all those variables, it probably would be beneficial, uh, in general to alternate muscle groups as much as you can. Yeah. When I program for folks and I'm doing like a full body workout or even just a body like region, like an upper lower split, I tend to program either agonist antagonist or alternate peripheral such that if somebody did want a superset, they'd have that option with minimal quote interference between the exercises. And I, and I, and this is my understanding of it. And I'd like to get you to comment on it. When you prepare exercises like that, or if you're going to do a back to back, like a superset or back to back to back, like you guys did here, try set something like that giant set. Um, the whole goal is to preserve not only training load. So how much weight you're actually lifting your relative training load, but also volume, like how many reps you're doing per set. And so with this type of setup, you don't really compromise that much compared to like, I did dumbbell bench press, and then I did dumbbell overhead press, and then I did chest flies. And it's like, well, yeah, if you do this back to back to back with no rest periods, you would expect the volume to drop off. You'd expect the person to be able to lift less weight and you would predict, especially based on your findings, which we will get to, I swear you would predict that people to have gain less strength, gain less muscle mass, whatever would be compromised because of the training load being less compared to something like this. Is that, is that correct? You agree? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And actually I was safe. Um, you know, obviously I was there for practically every single training session for all the participants. Oh, they were supervised. You were there the whole time. Oh, every session it was either there were like maybe three sessions or so I wasn't there for, but Rachel was there and you know, we're both, we both have our CSCS. We're both experienced. Um, so, which I think is a very important component because I've, I've heard that not all research studies are properly supervised with qualified trainers, which I think is a huge limitation because how do you know they're right, blipping with good form? How do you know they're lifting with the proper range of motion? How do you know that they're pushing close to failure like they're supposed to? And, and actually a lot of times, um, what was really surprising with almost every single participant, even though they claim to be trained, they all were surprised at how much further away from failure they were lifting in the beginning versus how much more I had them push. And they'd all be like, I had no idea I could push that much. Yeah. Yeah. That was really interesting. The Sohi effect. Yeah. And I'm like, well, this is, this is how your sets should feel. And they're like, I've never lifted before. And a lot of it was, I'm not confident of my form. So I don't want to push myself in case I get hurt. That was a very common, um, you know, the remark that they would make, which I found very, very interesting. So then it, then it made me wonder, okay, how many of these women who train on their own or don't have a, you know, good trainer with them, they think they're pushing close to failure, but they're actually like, you know, four or five reps shy every set all the time. Yeah. So that was very interesting. The coolest part about that being supervised, especially in this case, by qualified coaches, experienced coaches is that whatever you see the programming on in the paper is legitimately, you know, at least to the best of your ability, what the people did compared to it was unsupervised, like, yeah, just go do this program. On the one hand, there's some maybe more real world validity to that. You're like, all right, well, look, if I write a program for somebody and this is how they're going to execute it on average, well, there's, you know, some benefit to that, but the downside is that we don't really know what they were doing. And so if you get a spurious result or series of results, it's like, okay, well, that is an opportunity for error for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And so, yeah, it was really important for us to make sure that every single set we watched and we would actually dictate what loads they would lift. They wouldn't tell us, we would tell them, obviously based on how they told us they were feeling that day, how their warmups felt and how quickly the reps were moving, things like that. But, you know, I've been training clients for long enough now that I can basically eyeball, okay, this is what you're going to do today. And basically by rep one, I can already tell you're probably going to lift this many reps for the set. Yeah. So that was really cool for me to do that. And, but yeah, it was, it was very, very interesting. The number of people who genuinely, they, they, they didn't know what pushing to failure felt like. But also I think there was a bit of a, you know, like probably a bit of a trainer effect where having me there, they're like, oh, if you tell me I can do it, then I know I can do it. I can do it. Yeah. So that was, that was really cool too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. The, she has a very mature coaching eye, which can be, can be useful. Okay. So I would bury the lead enough here. What were the results? You got, again, one group doing for eight weeks, they're doing circuit training, another group doing this, lifting the same relative amount of weight, the same, about the same reps and such and proximity to failure, but with traditional rest periods, what were the results that you guys found? Uh, okay. So we measure strength using three at max testing for all six exercises. The six exercises were, uh, as I mentioned, the first three were leg press, flat, double bench press, trap bar deadlift. Then we had lap pull down, a barbell hip thrust and a standing dumbbell shoulder press. And so we did three at max testing for all participants before and after. And we actually found that both groups had similar strength gains in three at max, um, across. All the exercises as well as, uh, similar gains in muscle after eight weeks. Um, so that was really cool finding. I thought that was very encouraging because if anything that allows us to say based on the findings, uh, I really think that your personal preferences and your time constraints, as well as maybe like logistics of your gym setup, things like that, uh, should be the biggest factors to determine what type of training is best suited for you. And as well, another one thing we mentioned was, of course we didn't study this directly, but maybe you could even employ a combination of where you maybe start off like the first two or three exercises, traditional strength training style, and then you end your workout with a circuit. You can kind of combine them both if you wanted to have a bit more variety. Um, which I, you know, that, that sounds more interesting to me personally, but basically the point is like, you know, you have options as long as we mentioned it so many times throughout the paper, as long as you're pushing close to technical failure, the results will be similar. Yeah. Yeah. One of the things that I've, I've been saying a lot recently to try to, you know, if there's a central paradigm with respect to exercise prescription is that we want people to do as much exercise as they can with the two limiters on that being logistics one. So how much time do you have, you know, resources you have access to, and then two, what's your physiological tolerance for exercise? You obviously, right. That was, so in this particular case, you've effectively determined is my understanding that you could pick either. Yes. So for a person that's got less time circuits, super sets, try set can be an option. If you pay attention to exercise order, if you pay attention to the relative load being lifted and, and approximately to failure, you know, things you would normally pay attention to anyway during traditional sets, or if you have more time and you prefer a different way, you could do that too. There's not like a, you know, the one that rules them all, not a particular advantage outside of preferences. And in this case, maybe how much time you're spending. Right. Right. So like if, for example, I, I were to attend a, I don't know, an F45 class and I was, it was like, okay, it's time efficient, blah, blah, blah. It's great. I would try to make sure personally, okay, am I actually lifting hard enough with each set? Because especially, yes. And the nature of, we know in the nature of group workout classes, you're not going to be supervised as closely with every single set, every single repetition. So it's kind of up to you to build that self-awareness and accountability to be like, okay, I can definitely do more, but also, you know, while keeping yourself safe and all that stuff. So there's that too. I actually had thought about doing like a mock call where I was like the CEO or regional director from F45. And I was like, ring, ring, Dr. Carpenter. Hey, look, we're trying to optimize our, our, our subscribers, our members results. What suggestions would you have for improving our exercise programming or exercise structure? And so the problem obviously is that you don't really know what's going on inside each box, each F45 place. But my understanding and the way I see it anyway, is that there's not a ton of thought with exercise pairing. And then there's not, I don't feel a lot of assurance about like, okay, we're using a heavy enough weight to reach failure or close to failure within, yeah, maybe that eight to 15 rep range, like you guys used, or even just, we can liberalize that and say, all right, somewhere between five and 20 reps, we want to get you within a couple reps of failure. It more seems like we got to station for a minute, do as many reps as you can and just try to sweat a little bit, you know? Yeah. So that is my, I've been to, I think I want to say two classes, F45 classes before. And obviously this is not an offline F45 by any means. It's also been years since I've attended a class. The last time I went, I think of it, I think they were pairing bent over rows with band assisted chin ups. Yeah. And right away, right away, obviously you're working like basically same muscle groups. Second of all, your grip is going to be totally fried to the point where I remember for the chin ups by the end. So we do, you do like multiple sets, right? By the end, I think my last couple of sets, I was using like the fattest band, because I'm like, I don't have the grip strength to do this anymore. And you have me doing this for like 40, 45 seconds straight. That's a lot of reps of band assisted chin ups. So I remember being a little bit taken back by that and a little bit confused by the, by the program design there. Now, of course, maybe things have improved since then in terms of exercise. I don't, I don't really know. I still think that from a exercise enjoyment and social support standpoint, those types of classes can be fantastic. Cause I know, especially for a lot of women, they, you know, my mom, for example, which I know we'll talk about her in a little bit. She's she'll exercise in a social setting. She will not do it by herself. So for someone like her, those kinds of classes are fantastic. Yeah. So you would just, I think they're great. You'd prefer the exercise order to be a little different. And we tweak a couple of things and then small changes to make big improvements. Totally. I think. Yeah. Yeah. And your example, it's like, all right, look, if your grip is fried, right. So you can't really technically do the second exercise to the ability that your laps, your upper back, all this sort of stuff can. And so those muscles, they, yeah, they're receiving less training stimulus. And so if you had to predict a long-term outcome, you'd say, well, I predict that my strength is going to be less on pull-ups and what that sort of a setup, my grip strength, maybe I guess, strength, strength endurance might be higher, but you're ultimately compromised more when you pair the same muscles back to back. Right. But yeah, here's the wrinkle I'll throw in there. Get your take on it before we move on to training, training your parents. Do we think any of that is like from a, not enjoyment's the wrong word, but maybe like a, like a marketing based approach where it's like, look, you come to our workout class and you're going to leave super sore. Yeah. And you're, oh, look, you could only do one rep at the end because you were so fried and whatever, because I would predict these things. Yes. Closer to failure, more soreness potentially. And so you leave the class, you're like, I got a good workout. And it's like, yeah, I feel obliterated. Yeah. I think that's really tricky too, because I do think that people expect to feel that way at the end of those types of workouts. But we know that if, if I were training someone who was an actual beginner to lifting, we know that's not the smartest approach. Totally. It's probably best to have them do like a shorter session, uh, maybe like 30 minutes, have them rest for longer, um, go slower, pay attention to their form, have them do like one or two working sets of every exercise and then have them leave feeling really good. And so we can hopefully mitigate some muscle soreness the next couple of days. But I think when that happens, you run the risk of them being like, oh, I don't feel anything. That did nothing. I'm not going to go back. And so I do think while the, the approach that, you know, I described is probably the better approach from a long-term and, you know, smart trainer perspective, responsible perspective, is that, is it going to actually backfire in terms of getting them to come back? Yeah. Because they don't understand. Because they're hearing suffer or something like that. Yeah. And they're like, oh, I don't feel obliterated. I'm not going to go back. But then, of course you have on the other side, maybe they're too sore the next few days and then they hate it. So there's, there's also that. So I, I don't know. I think it's tricky kind of balanced, like what, what, what's actually the right approach to do things versus what people think that they want, because they're not always the same. Yeah. I think there's some opportunities for learning when, you know, people are warming up, you get to describe, hey, here are the goals of the workout. Here's how you should feel. And you said, here's why we structured it this way. I mean, I assume look at 45, I assume is doing well financially, other class, class. Yeah. Yeah. Like whatever, they have a sauce that's working from a adherence, reducing the churn rate, getting people to participate and come back standpoint. But like, you probably make the program a little better. I feel pretty confident. Yeah. I mean, I, I've already, I've toyed with the idea and I'm very much right now firmly know, but I'm like, man, if I could ever, if I ever want to open my own gym, I already know how I'd run it. I'd probably make it like small group sessions. They'd probably be mostly like traditional strength training base, or at least, you know, starting out with traditional strength training, maybe ending with a couple of intelligently programmed circuits, things like that. But it would be, yeah, it was, it would be all be about like, okay, if you're a beginner, here's your, maybe like your four week beginner intro course that you're going to start with. Then after that, you can then graduate to the intermediate advanced group. And then this is how we're going to do things. We're not doing things for time. We're doing things for, you know, reps. We're going to learn to embrace the rest periods, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So I've all thought about those things. Unfortunately, as I'm sure you probably know, running a in-person gym is extremely time consuming. Oh yeah. Logistics can be really, really rough to work with. Profit margin is like almost non-existent. So lots of things to consider there, but I'm like, I like the idea of it. We need a, we need a, we need an AI hologram of, of Sohi. And it would just like, she can do that while you're busy. You can do everything. Yeah. Like, don't me, I honestly, I love, I love working with people in person. I find it extremely gratifying in a way that the online work will, will never measure up. We know this, the in-person relationships are so valuable, but at the same time, you know, it really, and people who are in person, you know, full-time personal trainers at a, at a gym will understand. Obviously it's a huge sacrifice to make in terms of your time and energy consumption. Yep. So I love training people in person, but I only have so many hours in a day and I'm like, Oh, gotta make a trade off somewhere. A hundred percent. All right. So that link to her paper is in the show notes below. And so I encourage you to take a read again, even if you're like, look, I understand that it's all this now, the background reading and stuff is, is excellent in the paper. So well done. Oh yeah. Thank you. And actually the one other point I want to mention, because when I posted about the study, of course we got some well criticisms, like, well, you know, not a lot of us can do that exact circuit in our gym setting. It's not meant to be literal because, you know, I don't expect people to have access to a leg press and a flat dumbbell, like a bench press and a trap bar machine, like trap bar deadlift. Yeah. A trap bar, all three of them at the same time. Of course, if you're at a busy gym, you're not realistically, that's not going to happen. A jerk face. Yeah. You take it up all the equipment, but you can find similar alternatives where you can maybe maximize like space efficiency. Maybe you can find dumbbell turners for all of them. Totally. You know, those, there's always options and alternatives. Yeah. For the leg press, you could do some sort of squat pattern, a goblet squat for, for example, a line, I mean, whatever, some sort of squat pattern type movement. Yeah. Or you can also add in unilateral exercises, which we purposely didn't do because obviously for like through max testing, it's a lot trickier to be like, well, she got four reps on this leg and two reps on this leg. So what do we say? So we kept it bilateral for everything, but you could obviously swap in like reverse lunges, step ups, things like that if you wanted to. Yeah. Agreed. When you see a squat pattern or a press pattern or row pattern or a hinge pattern, there are multiple subs within those categories. We predict they'd all work reasonably well for the same sort of health promotion, stuff like that. Right. All right. Let's shift gears a little bit. One thing I wanted to talk to you about for a long time now was your experience.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop But she's always had a trainer in some capacity, someone working with her. And so when eventually, I want to say like six years ago, we ended up living in the same general area. Actually, I want to say like closer to four years ago is when we moved out to OC, which is where they also are in Orange County. And then, you know, I immediately built a garage gym. And so she would come over and like, I want to say once or twice a week. And it was oftentimes my I was the one prompting her because she's she's not someone who inherently loves to exercise. She's not the type to go out and do a workout by herself. But if she has the accountability, she will she will show up. Right. So every time she does any form of exercise, golfing, Pilates, lifting with me is always with someone else. OK. Right. So that's something that I noticed very early on. I also noticed that she's not the type to enjoy pushing herself much on her own. And, you know, and I say this with the most love of my heart. I don't she doesn't have the greatest body awareness in the gym. So I'll have her let's say I'll have her do a set of goblet squats. We'll rest two minutes, three minutes. And I'll say, OK, do it again. She goes, what am I doing? What do I do? You know, and then, you know, and then the next week I'll say, OK, this is your warm up set. Here's your weight. And she'd be like, this is way too heavy. And I'm like, you did this last week as a warm up. And she's like, oh, you know, so it's like you need she's someone who really needs someone there with her to be like, this is how the exercise looks. This is the weight you're going to do. This is how many reps you're going to perform. Yeah. So she really needs a lot of that guidance. But she's great, at least with me, not with my dad, funnily enough. She's great at listening to me as a head for trainer. But then, you know, if it's my dad's trainer, she she's like, I'm not doing this. I don't want to do this anymore. You know how you know how it is with like family members can be like that sometimes. But it was it was really fun because I wanted to keep it. It was really important to me to make it a very positive experience for her. And that meant, at least for now, those types of, you know, the F45 or those classes would not be a good fit for her. I think she'd feel too overwhelmed. The music would probably be too loud. The rest periods would be too short. So I was like, I have to cater this to her, but also make the session short enough that she is willing to actually show up in the first place. So my first several sessions with her, they were like 20 minutes long. They were very, very short. And I would do yeah, I would do like two sets of maybe six exercises. And I would like superset, you know, upper, lower, upper, lower, upper, lower. And then I'd be like, OK, that's on. And then she's like, oh, that's it. Oh, yeah, I'm done. And then over time, you slowly add on more. You slowly add on more. You make them a little bit, you know, tougher. You add the load and so on. And then over time she saw, oh, she and then she would show up the next week and be like, oh, my golf game is getting really good. My golf swing is really strong and everyone's starting to notice. And then she gets more excited about it. And you say, yeah, that's because you're lifting weights and you're getting stronger here. And then she becomes more motivated to keep going. So it became a really positive feedback loop. So we've been we've been training together on and off for a number of years now. It's been really fun. Yeah, no, that's a similar similar kind of experience with my dad, Leonard. He he does like exercising, but he would not do the type of exercise that I want him to do. Yeah. Which look full marks to him. Like you want to go to the gym. You want to lift some weights. You want to do some cardio or as he calls it, cardio's, which. That's great. Yeah. Hats off to you. But I you know, in this particular case, he was coming off this knee replacement and he suffered a pretty significant loss of not only mobility, although now his pain was better, but in strength. And such. And so that was his motivation. And so, you know, admittedly, for he's 73 now, admittedly, it's challenging to get a septuagenarian under the barbell to squat, for example, especially if they haven't been doing it their whole life. You know, so that's not something he would do. And I actually asked him because I was out of town for a bit. I was like, hey, would you like do the leg press? He's like, how do you do that? And I'm like, OK, so we need we need some guidance here. Yeah. Yeah. And so it sounds like her initial program was relatively shorter, less that's less volume or whatever. And then as she not only got more familiar with the exercises, but also as her fitness improved, her training tolerance improved, you added more. So if her initial sessions were 20 minutes ish, right, with lighter weights and whatever, relatively. How long do her sessions last now? I mean, they're there. Yeah, they're like 50 minutes, five, five zero minutes now. So almost an hour. And if you do that twice a week, that's a lot. That's a lot of lifting. Oh, yeah, that's really good. And what's nice is that because it's obviously my private gym, she plays the music that she wants when she's wrestling. She does whatever she wants. Wait, what does she listen to? When my dad's here, they turn on NPR, actually. Oh, OK. I don't know. I didn't know what I expected, like Pink Pony Club, but no, it's NPR. No, my parents are very, they love the classical music and stuff. So sometimes my dad will play opera. I don't know. And I'm like, you know, and sometimes I have to override and like, listen, I can't do this because I'm also working out. So I'm going to change the music to something that I can lift to. But I give them a lot of flexibility. Like, for example, when we're home and she's training at my garage gym between sets, she likes to wander out to my garden and check on my plants. Yeah, which is nice for your plants. I'm like, that's great. But and then I'll let you know when you have to come back in to do your next set. You got to call mom. Come back. It's time to squat. She's like in her. She's got her gardening gloves on and she's like digging, you know, in the dirt and whatever. But I think it's quite cute because she obviously wouldn't be able to do that in a in a in a different gym setting. Yeah. Yeah. With a different trainer. Not a lot of gardens at the local 24 hour. Yeah. So I'm like, you know what? As long as you're doing your sets, I don't care what you do in between. Totally. Yeah. One of the interesting things here that I want you to speak to is on like progression here. We've gone through so much like trying public facing publishing about what is really progressive overload. What is progressive? Yeah. And the way we explain it is that as your fitness increases, whether it's measured by strength, whether it's measured by cardiorespiratory fitness. Yeah. Train tolerance, whatever. However, you'll have to do more to get the same type of training stress. You're really not trying to increase the training stress, but really just match it to your new level of fitness. Yeah. Whereas on the other side of things, people are like, no, you just have to add weight every time you go to the go to the gym or add a rep. Right. Which is obviously an oversimplification. Because if we don't think that strength improves really reliably on a weekly basis, for example, then adding weight or adding a rep would really just be like, we'll just make it harder. And it's like, well, it should be the same level of hard. Because you're supposed to be getting fitter over time. Yeah. It's like chicken egg kind of situation. Yeah. Is that what you use with her? Yes. But we're also talking about exercise progressions too, right? So if she's doing a incline pushup or a torso elevated pushup, which I like to do it on a squat rack as much as possible, obviously not realistic for everyone, especially if you're at a busy gym. But it's very easy to adjust the height of the barbell, right? You're like, oh, you're on this number hole. Then you lower it over time. So, for example, if she's doing like three sets of eight at a given height, like shoulder height barbell, and it's obviously starting to get easy for her, I would either add reps or I'm like, okay, let's lower the height of the bar. That way, even though when you log it, you're like, okay, she's on hold, so-and-so, the total load technically does increase because she's lifting more of her relative body weight. It's technically still considered an exercise progression because you're making the exercise itself harder. So, I mean, you can do this with almost every movement pattern. You can find regressions and progressions. Totally. But, for example, I probably would not have her do a barbell back squat, per se, given her movement patterns and her level of body awareness. But maybe I'll have her do a lever squat. Or a goblet squat. I can have her do a leg press. Yes. I can have her do a goblet squat. Those things. I can have her do a unilateral, like a brace dumbbell split squat. And maybe over time, you progress that to dumbbell in each hand doing reverse lunges. Yep. You know, there's always variations you can do like that. It's the same thing I've done with my dad. Now, obviously, you had some anatomical, you know, limitations initially. Yeah, yeah, right. But we were doing safety squat bar box squats. And people were like, why did you start there? And I'm like, well, I'm a powerlifter. And, like, old habits die hard. Like, I want people to squat. But he could do it. And also him holding that was much easier than a straight barbell. Yeah. Yeah. But his range of motion was limited initially, as well as his, like, awareness of kinesthetic awareness, you know, from moving through space. Right, right, right. So you probably had him do, like, higher box squats. Yep. Got lower. Eventually didn't need the box anymore. Could squat, you know, to depth. And same thing on the deadlift. Initially, it was from an elevated surface. And then it was from the ground. And so there are multiple options. And, you know, sometimes it does add load, like in the push-up example that you have. Sometimes it adds a stability component, like going from an assisted split squat to a freestanding split squat of some version. And, yeah, obviously you can add reps. You can add sets. But the whole point here of the progressions is that once their fitness is improved to a point where their current, you know, prescription is no longer challenging enough for them, you have to change something. But you don't make that change ahead of time. That's not the – that's kind of the line on the stand I'm drawing. It's like as you get stronger, the weight will go up. You don't add the weight necessarily to get stronger, if that makes sense. And I think people have a tough time with that. They're like, oh, I just have to add five pounds every single time. And I'm like, big if true. That would be incredible. Imagine if – imagine you put five pounds on your deadlift every single week. Well, why am I not deadlift at 1,000 pounds? Right. Right. And then I think we do have a lot of people thinking that. And then they get upset if they can't – Oh, I failed. – getting strength every week. And I'm like, can you imagine how much you'd be lifting by the end of the year if you really were lifting that much more every single week, even if it was two and a half pounds every week. That would be incredible. Yeah. I have a shirt that I bought. It was an incorrect purchase. It was one of those things like a targeted ad. And I was like, oh, cool. It was just a random like LSKD shirt or whatever. And on the back it says 1% better every day. I'm like, well, so then at the end of the year, 365 – That's a big percentage. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know that that's reasonable. I get the message, but come on, guys. The idea of it is nice, but when you really do the math, you're like, that doesn't make sense. Yeah. That's the worst. Yeah. So she's training with you every single time, approximately twice a week. Is that what you guys are doing? Once or twice a week. It depends on her – it depends on like both her availabilities. Okay. And actually sometimes she does come to – but now I also have a warehouse gym, which is where I am now. Sometimes my parents will come here without me, and they'll be like, hey, we're here now. We're training. And then it's always the same thing where my dad's like, she didn't listen to me, but she still did some stuff. But I'm like, I don't care as long as you're doing it. Yeah. You're trying. Yeah. The participation is important. You're showing up. You're doing it. And obviously if they're traveling a lot more, it's harder for them to be consistent. But I'm like, I don't mind those breaks here and there as long as you eventually get back to it. Yeah. But yeah, she's doing great. What was – what would you say like the biggest challenge that you faced with training her? And while you marinate on that, just with my dad, the biggest challenge for him is almost holding him back a little bit. Oh, interesting. Because he's like, just add more weight. Oh. Because his thing is like, he's like, I want to look like you. I'm like, oh, I don't know that that's in the cards. Just like I've taken some various specific steps to get here. But hey, he's like, but if I lift more weight, I'm going to look like you. I'm like, eh. Oh. Anyway, that's a challenge. I think it was probably the opposite for my mom where she convinces herself that everything's too heavy for her, even when she's more than capable. You know, as I mentioned earlier, when she's done it as a warm-up set before, the week prior. And she's like, oh, this is really heavy. And I'm like, no, this is a warm-up set. It's a literal warm-up set. And then you – then, of course, you increase the loads for the next second. She wants to get – she's like, there's no way I can do this. And then she busts out eight pristine reps. And I'm like, okay, you did it. So it's kind of like every exercise feels a little bit like that. But, you know, I've been training with her, training her for long enough where I can't anticipate this. And you're not really dismissing their complaints per se. No. But you know that they are telling themselves a false narrative. Yeah. You had a redirect of like, look, you might feel this, but the reality – Yeah. And we're not going to do – I'm not going to listen to you in this specific scenario because we know for a fact that it's incorrect. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So that's probably the big thing for her. So, I mean, if anything, I think it really demonstrates that every person is different. And their obstacles and their mental barriers are different. And you have to approach them all differently. Also, she is the type to get very frustrated if you overcorrect or you nitpick. So I have never been super – I've never been a super stickler about her form. Yeah, you're not like barking at her between – No. So – no, no, no. So even if her hips sag a little bit in the pushup, I don't – I'm not going to – I'm going to leave it. You know? I'm like, you're still doing the reps. You're still getting the benefit of the exercise, so I'm going to leave it. So I think that has been another important thing for her is to be like, okay, keep it a fun environment where she doesn't get frustrated. Yeah. One of the interesting challenges I would have not predicted is that – so Leonard – I film him quite often just to like show him because if he's like, this is heavy or this is light, and I show him like, actually, the bar speed is kind of indicative that it actually is a challenge. But he will invariably post these things on Facebook as – Oh, that's really sweet. Yeah. Totally. But like one of his recent deadlift sets, he did 275 for a couple sets of four. Yeah, right? I'm like, Leonard, what a savage. Yeah, that's serious. But the comments underneath are not like, go, Leonard, go whatever. They're more like, you're going to hurt yourself. Of course, yeah. So, you know, and it's like – and even in the gym, I've had people like try to pull me aside and like, hey, are you sure that he should be doing these things? And I'm like, I'm pretty sure. Like, I'm pretty sure. Maybe if you want to look up barbell medicine. So obviously you're in a private setting so that you're not getting that in person. Oh, that would really annoy me. But it's – I mean, it's to be expected, I guess. Yeah, it's almost like this learned fragility kind of thing or learned fear. Yeah, yeah. This idea that if you're older, you're fragile and you can't – you're not capable or you shouldn't be lifting heavy things. And I think it's disempowering. It does us a disservice. Yeah. It's – if anything, that population is more vulnerable to the effects of detraining and insufficient activity. And so most – what I find is that most fitness advice geared towards that audience, they results in underloading and undertraining. And I'm like, it's better than nothing, to be clear. No hate comms, peace and love. It's better than nothing. But from like a maximizing the return on investment for time, let's put our best foot forward. Let's make sure it's an adequate resistance. You're doing an adequate number of reps. It's getting appropriately challenging. It shouldn't be maximal, but you're getting there. And rinse, lather, repeat. But these are people like, ah, no, you can never touch a barbell. I'm like, well, God forbid you got to pick something up off the floor in your day-to-day life or like sit down on the toilet and get up by yourself. I mean, what's your – never squat. Like how do you interface with the environment, you know? Yeah. And I think it also comes from those people who grew up in a generation where lifting weights wasn't that common to begin with. And especially – I know, obviously, you're training your dad. I'm training my mom. But like women – my mom growing up, no one lifted. Women didn't lift at all. Yeah, why didn't they? And so I think for them to – even for my mom, when I have her dad lift like even like 115, 125 pounds, she's always like, there's no way I can do this. And I'll film her. I'll send her the video. And, you know, she was objecting the whole time she was doing it. But then she'll go and send it to all her friends. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know what I did. So that's pretty cute. She's like, oh, look at how much weight I lifted. So it's pretty cute. But also it shows that there is a lot of learned false narrative. Yeah. That social learning component is huge. With like how much you should or shouldn't lift, how much you should or shouldn't do, or what we're capable of. And yet, obviously, they experience the benefits of it. Yeah. And then we know, too, you know, there's research on participants in their 60s and 70s. You can still gain muscle and strength when you're older. So there really is never a point when it is too late to start lifting. Yeah. I'm mostly concerned. Which is really cool. Yeah. When it comes to exercise prescription in this population, if this was a special population, which I don't – the only reason I view it as special is like, look, most of these people are not active, which makes it special by default. But my biggest concern is underloading versus overloading. Yes. You know, that seems to be more common. Has there been anything like surprising that she's been able to do either in training or as a result of her training that you otherwise like would not have guessed? Like I imagine a scenario where you're like, I don't know if mom can like overhead press, for example. Oh, shoot. She's amazing. She's so good. Or a pull-up. I don't know. Anything like that that's happened that you've been surprised by? I think her deadlift progress has been really good. I will say that she still struggles with like proper hip hinge, especially when it comes to like to the conventional deadlift versus high bar, trap bar deadlift she's a lot more comfortable with. But it's been really cool to see her grind out some pretty heavy reps that even when she's like, there's no way I can do this unless she does like six, you know? Yeah, she's like, oh, just kidding. That's been really great to see. And then obviously outside the gym, she is very independent. She does a lot of things on her own, which I love to see. And I'm hoping that that continues for a long time with her. Yeah. Yeah. Pops, we've been doing a bunch of lap pull-downs and variations thereof and rows and such. And I had this wild hair just to propose the idea to him because he was a Marine. He was in the military. And I was like, hey, do you remember, like, could you do a bunch of pull-ups like back in the day? He's like, oh, yeah, I was excellent, Adam. I'm like, you think you could do a pull-up or a chin-up now? And he's like, huh, I probably haven't tried one in over 20 years. I'm like, well, why don't you? Oh, my gosh. So I showed him, right? And just do this. And he got up there, and he cranked out three chin-ups like right in a row. We had not. Wow. And I was like, dad, holy crap, man, what the heck? That's very cool. That one, and then there's a golf course that we play called Medeiros, and there's a forced – my dad will not move up a tee box. He just refuses, and we go back and forth. But anyway, there's a forced carry. I think it's 165 yards, whatever. And he's never been able to make the distance off the tee. Yeah. Okay. And then, I don't know, a couple months into training, he finally does it. And he looks at me, and I go, either you got much better at golf all of a sudden or this added strength is paying off. So now he's like, how do I swing the club faster? I'm like, all right, I don't know if we need to speed train or anything, Leonard, but we'll just keep getting stronger and see what happens. Yeah. Yeah. And I think using those kinds of motivators to get them to keep showing up and stay excited about lifting, I would absolutely use that to your advantage. Because I do say, this is going to help you do golf swing. Totally. This is going to give you a more powerful hip rotation, this and that. And she's like, oh, that's great. I want to do more of this. And so a lot of people, their main motivation for lifting is not, I want to be really good at lifting. It's either like general health improvement or I want to get better at this thing outside the gym. And I think it's totally valid to have those reasons. And I would use that to your advantage as much as possible. Yeah, it's a great leverage point for motivational interviewing to do stuff. Not everybody is cut out to be a power lifter. And then also if you're like a science-based lifter, that term has been used derogatorily as of late. But like you don't have to be like – So is educated apparently. That's true, yeah. You're educated. Actually, this is not the best exercise for like club head speed. I'm like, dude, shut up. Come on. Yeah. Anyway, so I'll wrap this portion up. This is maybe the most important question I've ever asked on a podcast, so no pressure. Okay. What advice do you have for somebody who wants to get their parent or loved one started in the gym? Obviously, you and your mom's relationship are close otherwise, and she knows you're a fitness professional and you have resources. Oh, just come over to the garage or come to the warehouse gym. But a person who maybe doesn't have that background personally and those resources personally, any sort of advice that you would try to give them here? Yes. I would try to – I like to keep an open invite for lifting. For example, there was a time, I want to say last year or the year before, when my mom's older sister was visiting for several weeks, and she would come over with my mom when my mom would come over to train at my garage gym. And my aunt, who doesn't really exercise, she would stand in the garage doorway and watch us as we would work out, we would live together. And I'd always say, do you want to join? No? Okay. That's fine. And then by the end of week two, she was like, okay, I'll try something. Yeah, cool. And I had her do like a 10-minute workout. And I wish she would have stayed for longer because, you know, I would have gotten her to do more and more. But it was very like, you don't want to force them. You don't want to scare them. You want to – I think like, you know, let them become curious and watch you over time. I think a lot of being a role model is really, really important to show that you're doing the thing. And so she'd watch us the whole time. And she finally was like, okay, I'll try this like low box step up, body weight step up for now. And then I'll do this – these rows and these dumbbell bench press and things like that. And so I think leaving that door open is really important rather than making you feel like you're forcing them. You shouldn't be forcing them into like, you have to do this or else blah, blah, blah. And the other thing I would do is find out what their biggest barriers are and remove those barriers as much as possible. For example, if they don't want to leave the house, if they're afraid of being watched by other people, can you bring some equipment into their home and modify workouts that they can do in their living room? Yep. And take them through a workout like let's do something for 15 minutes, one five. Yeah. I don't care if it's ideal or whatever. All I'm trying to do is get you building the momentum of exercising and then over time we can always add from there. So that's kind of the approach that I would take. And again, make it fun. What music do you want to listen to? Yep. Do you want to have a TV show on in the background? I don't care. Yep. How can I make this fun for you? I think that's really, really important. It's great advice because, yeah, and I'm sure you get this question all the time too. It's like, oh, how do I get this person in my life that I care about to exercise? And invariably where people tend to start, at least my experience has been, people want to extol the benefits of exercise. They want to do this long oratory of like, well, the data shows this or like, you know, and it's like, look, most people by and large know that exercise would benefit them. That's not going to like trigger this. Wow. Now I'm so motivated. Thank you so much for your hour long dinner time, you know, table talk. Instead, it's like, hey, why don't you come work out with me? Or why don't you let me, you know, show you some stuff in the gym? Like basically you're making it a little social. You're removing that barrier. You're removing the barrier of like, hey, I've never been to this. I don't know how to do the exercises. You're checking all of those common barriers off. And so there may be additional ones for the individual that in that case you would handle specifically. But yeah, I find like, look, don't, you don't got to preach these people. It's the same way you don't have to tell a person who's smoking. They know. Stop it. Stop it. Smoking is going to be good for them. Yeah, right, right, right. It's how do you facilitate that? Yeah. Actually, okay. So that reminds me, I don't know that I've ever talked about this publicly before. And I think it's okay for me to talk about. Exclusive. So one of my chapters of my thesis, and we collect the data on this too, we're trying to get it published, was a survey on perceived benefits and barriers to lifting in women, right? Perceived, right? And so we had women who self-identified as like regularly resistance trained versus non-resistance trained. So people who lift regularly versus not. And we found actually that both groups had similar levels of perceived benefits to lifting. So even if you don't lift, you understand the health benefits. Totally. So to your point, you're totally right. There's no, we don't have to be like, this is what it's good for. Yeah, we got it. That's great. We know that. But it was obviously the difference came down to the non-lifting group. Their perceived barriers were much, much higher. And again, I think it's important to emphasize perceived. Totally. Because when you think you have less time, even if you do have time, you're going to feel more overwhelmed and you're going to be less willing to do the thing. And the biggest barrier was time effort. And social barrier was a big one, too. So how can we address those exact barriers? Okay, cool. Hey, can you find two jugs of water or sacks of rice around your home? Totally. Then you can lift with me in your living room. You're such a 20-minute follow along. Do this with me. They're like, okay, I can do that. Then I can stay in my outfit. I don't have to change. I don't have to be embarrassed or self-conscious of other people watching me. And I don't have to worry about a commute to and from the gym. Done. I've addressed all those things. So lots of ways to facilitate that. Yeah. The ultimate goal is to get people bit by this physical activity bug, this exercise bug. Yeah, they're like, oh, I feel good. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And I think it's almost human nature. And I'm not a psychiatrist. This is not my area of expertise. But I think there is something that once you get that first taste of a win or success, that then people are like, how do I do it better? How do I get more out of this? How do I, you know, and it's kind of a positive feedback loop, but then people are probably more open to, oh, maybe I would go to a gym. Or maybe I would, you know, do something a little bit more, quote, optimal for the educated people. Yeah. Yeah. And well, yes, actually, that's a good point. Because I think a lot of people, they're so consumed with it has to be done perfectly or it has to be done optimally, or I'm not going to do it at all. And I'm like, I don't care about what's optimal as long as you're doing something. And then we can always improve upon that over time. Yes. Yeah, agreed. Anyone who's able to should exercise. We want you to do as much of it as possible, but anything is better than nothing for sure. Yeah. Which is why I think a lot of the debates we see online, like splitting hairs over, like what exercise and what angle of this and that exercise is. I'm like, I really don't think that. Couldn't care less. Couldn't care less. Like not even a little bit. No. Won't find me in the comment section. Yeah. No. Yeah. So. No, this is great. This is excellent. I am sensitive to your time. And also just every time I get to talk to you has been amazing. So before we go, can you tell people where to find Dr. Sohee Carpenter? Yes. So my, my username is SoheeFit across every social media platform. I would say I'm most active on Instagram, but there's also a website. I'm on, I guess, Thrive is technically considered a newer social media platform. I'm like somewhat active on there too, but you know, I'm on all the major platforms. SoheeFit. Yeah. I'm pretty easy to find. We'll link all of our stuff in the show notes below. And as always, it's been a pleasure. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Again, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. Special thanks to Dr. Carpenter for joining us today. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll see you next week.