 welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and this is the 2025 June research review. We're going to talk about do-heavy walkouts on the squat help make you stronger, and a new study claims that exercise reduces cancer mortality by nearly 40 percent. Is this legit? And new research into what defines zone to cardio. All that and more on this episode of the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I am joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, doing okay, juggling a lot at the moment. Finished up rounds in the hospital earlier this morning, gearing up for yet another move, moving back to San Antonio here soon. So, a lot of things on the plate, but we're doing okay. My platitude for you this morning is time waits for no one. That's deep. Yeah, no one knows what it means, but you can say it, and there you go. All right, well, to keep you on track, because Lorraine would definitely be upset if I kept you on this podcast for too long. Let's just get right into it. A few announcements before we talk about the first paper. First off, just to remind folks, look, if you hate the ads at the beginning of the podcast, in the middle of the podcast, at the end of the podcast, there's an option for you. We hate them too, but we got to fund the operation. You can become a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, and you get ad-free listening. You get discounts on products. You get early access to products. You get extended template samples. You get articles that aren't published anywhere else, transcripts. You get a bunch of support, and your first month is free. You can try that out. You can go to barbellmedicine.supercast.com or click on the link in the description below. It's basically like the cost of a cup of coffee every month. So, you could just buy Dr. Baraki or myself a cup of coffee every month, and we'd be happy about that. Yes. Also, we just put up our live in-person seminar. Our first one we've done in a while. I don't know, when was the last time we did a seminar? Was it LA in 23 maybe? Yeah, we put a pause on it for a while while juggling a lot of other projects, but I guess it's ready to be resurrected. We're getting the band back together. Yes. So, we'll be in San Antonio, Dr. Baraki, myself, Leah Lutz, Tom Capatelli, Dr. Capatelli, as we like to refer to them as. We'll be in San Antonio, Texas, September 20th to 21st for, again, a live in-person barbell medicine seminar. It's on health and performance. So, if you want to learn the barbell medicine methodology, if you want to hang out, you want to lift with us. Come hang out. The description and the link to sign up is in the show notes below. So, we're excited to see some folks. Some new material. It's going to be new, mainly because we got bored with the whole material. So, it's going to be some new stuff. So, pumped on that. Last thing I wanted to bring to your attention is our protein supplement, WayRx. Now, we don't do much advertising for our supplements. We're not a real supplement company. We think what we produce is really high quality, evidence-based, et cetera. But look, we're not trying to shill supplement. We do have them available for those who are interested, but it's not our main sort of thing here. But I do want to plug our protein because WayRx1 is one of the best proteins on the market right now. It's also one of the most affordable products on the market. So, coming in at only 90 calories per serving for 20 grams of protein, we're pretty much the only company in the space that offers a whey protein Isolate supplement that's just protein and no added calories. If you go look at our competitors, they're always in the 120s, 140s, 150s, even up to 180 calories. That's like double what we have. So, just protein, nothing else. Every batch of our protein and all of our supplements are third-party tested for purity. So, feel pretty confident that what you're getting is just protein and the same can't be said for everyone else. Even the big brands that you're like, oh, look, this is in a big box store. I'm like, yeah, that doesn't really matter. And again, we're one of the most affordable whey protein Isolates on the market. We're way less expensive than Legion, Isopure, Optimum, whoever. You can price check us and I feel pretty confident that for whey protein Isolate, we're doing really well. Now, whey protein, the raw material, the price has gone up. We have not increased our prices in years, I think since we started. We're likely to increase them in the next few months. But to the end of this month, for sure, it's the same price. So, if you want to help us out, you want to save some money, head over to our website, www.barblemedicin.com, get some way if you are a protein supplement user, and let us know what you think. We've gotten really good reviews. This may be the first ad we've ever done for a way. So, yeah, maybe don't sign up for my business development course, but you can check out our way. All right, let's get into the first study. This study is titled, Supermaximal Walkouts Protect Against Performance Decrements Experienced in Repeated Sets of Back Squats. So, just before we get into this, Austin, do you have a program, heavy walkouts for people? No, I think that I can see the utility of it in certain contexts. I suppose maybe like, in situations where someone has some anxiety around it, some performance stress, if they are committed to walking out of weight, meaning they're not competing in a meat where they're going to use a monolith and just stand it up out of the monolith, various potential use cases. I don't find myself programming them routinely. I don't personally use them as an aside. I find it very, I don't know, interesting, amusing that this is actually being studied. It's like you can automatically deduce that the researchers in this are big-time powerlifting nerds. Love it. Because no one else is going to be bothering to research this. Yeah, this is by Greast and the research group out of Florida State University. This was published in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research June of this year. So, fresh off the presses. So, just if you don't know what a walkout is, like when we were talking about that, we're literally talking about walking out a squat. So, you pick the bar up off the pins, the J-hooks, whatever, and you walk it out and super maximal means heavier than your max. This probably, I mean, granted, I'm 40 now, but that doesn't mean I've been around since the beginning of time, and the beginning of powerlifting. So, I can't say if it used to be more popular. It certainly seemed that way, but I don't know if that was just in the circles that we were running in or whatever. But yeah, the idea was, well, look, if you want to squat heavier weights, maybe you would do a heavy walkout to feel the weight or whatever. And so, yeah, to your point, these guys probably are interested in powerlifting, but also interested that it's been studied. So, let's give a little background here before we talk about the specifics of the study. So, first off, Strength is muscular force production that's measured in a specific context. And so, in relation to that, there is this concept of like velocity loss during a set. So, this is a marker of like fatigue occurring during the set. So, if you have a really fatiguing set, then you're going to get more velocity loss than a less fatiguing set. So, a higher RPE set, for example, you'll see more velocity loss, generally speaking, than a lower RPE sort of set. Now, recent research into strength training has shown that training closer to failure, as evidenced by greater decreases in barbell velocity, as the set progresses, does not produce greater strength gains than a more modest or smaller loss in bar velocity. And in fact, the opposite has been kind of shown. So, for our strength focused training programs, the way that we coach or whatever, we tend to favor less velocity loss and therefore lower RPE training, so that low fatigue type of setup. And I just want to interject because for those who may be either unfamiliar with some of these terms or like a little bit less familiar with these concepts to put it into kind of more practically understandable terms, when we talk about velocity loss, that's describing the bar and like how quickly you can stand up the weight from a squat getting slower and slower and slower as a set goes on as you get more and more and more tired. And so, I think traditionally the view of like what constitutes effective strength training, heavy air quotes around that, is seeing somebody who is grinding out an extremely difficult hard, hard set where the last rep just inches up millimeter by millimeter. What we are saying is that more recent evidence in this as well as a fair amount of experience has reflected that as far as strength outcomes go, your ability to maximally increase your one rep max kind of strength performance, the bulk of your training actually does not need to be quite that close to failure, that hard, that much of a bar slowdown, nor arguably should it be. There certainly can be some exposure to that level of effort so that you can maybe if you need to grind out that absolute one rep max, be able to do that or to know how to not immediately bail when it gets that hard. But as far as how to best train towards that end, it seems that when we compare people who train while they maintain a bit faster bar speeds at the end of their set, meaning their sets terminate a bit sooner versus going a bit further closer to failure where the bar slows down more, they grind harder, the strength outcomes tend to be a bit better when people keep the bar speed up higher. And so when you say like a little bit lower RPE training or low fatigue template, that doesn't mean you're lifting lighter weights, that doesn't mean you're just doing easy training, it is that each individual set on its own is less fatiguing. You are still exposing yourself to at least moderate to heavy loads, but you're not taking it all the way to failure. Yeah, yeah, imagine like a five rep maximum, which is like 85 86% of a one rep max somewhere somewhere in there. Imagine just doing it for a set of three, you'd have less velocity loss and we would predict that to work better than doing a single set of five to failure and how it costs you less from fatigue. And it'd be even better if maybe you did two sets of three or three sets of three, you know, because you could do that since you didn't go, you didn't, you know, smoke yourself. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Okay, so one strategy for potentially reducing velocity loss during a set is post activation performance enhancement or pape, post activation potential, that sort of thing. So if you didn't want to lower RPE, for example, and you're like, but how can I maintain bar velocities? Is there another way, please help me? This is a strategy that's been investigated in resistance training. So it's mostly a function of neural mechanisms, so some stuff with the brain, nerves, and other short term changes to the level of the muscle itself. So for example, you could do a vertical jump prior to doing a heavy squat or a bench press throw before a heavy bench press, or you could do the opposite. You could do squats before a vertical jump. And there's some evidence that this may work to sort of preserve or even increase the velocity of whatever the second thing is. Now, for example, previous data shows that doing heavy, eccentric only sets a downward phase for bench presses may benefit upper body power production. So this particular study had guys who benched about 315 pounds. They did two reps of eccentric only, again, that's a downward phase, with 110 to 130% of their one rep max bench press loads, just as an aside, I want zero part of that. Yeah, that does not sound pleasant to me. So you've benched, you know, 450, something like that is your best, I think mine and me is 440, whatever. So I'm just imagining unracking 500 pounds and then lowering it to my chest without it completely exploding. Now, I understand Jennifer Thompson has done this, I've seen a video of her lowering 500 pounds to pins and she benches like, I think 330 or something around there is her max. So hats off to her. Yeah, I just want to point out one thing, you said what was the 130% of their max? Yes. You know what that is for? No, I didn't want to do because that just scares me. Yeah, it's for me, it'd be about 585. No chance. Yeah, no, I couldn't even unwrap that. That's what I'm saying, like I would help, you and I would be in my garage, just unwrapping this thing and then you would just explode. You would turn the dust, you'd be a dust on the bench press, at least your upper body. It would just be a guillotine, yeah, that'd be the end of us. And then I'd have to vacuum you up with a dry vac. Anyway, so they did this 110 to 130% of their one rep max bench press loads, they just did two reps bringing the bar down only. Now, so I imagine what happened is they brought the bar down to pins, somebody, they helped them get back up and they did a second rep. Five minutes later after this, they performed a bench press throw with 30% of their one rep max to measure power. I assume this was on a Smith machine, actually, now that I think about it. And there was a 10% increase in power and 6% increase in velocity compared to not doing these heavy overloads. So this thought is like, well, shoot, maybe if we do this sort of heavy overload prior to some sort of test, in this case, the squat, maybe it improves velocity, for example. So this study wanted to look at the effect of walking out a weight higher than the individuals one rep max, their squat one rep max, and their subsequent squat performance. They took 13 healthy dudes who had a one rep max back squat of about two times body weight. The average squat in this study was 425 pounds. So reasonably well trained. They visited the lab four different times. The first was for typical research stuff. So consent, screening, getting height and weight data, etc. The second, they actually tested their one rep max squat. And the third and fourth were experiments, which included either a heavy walk out that was heavier than their one rep max or the placebo walk out, which was like 30% of the one rep max. They had trash bags over the weights. So theoretically, you wouldn't know. Yeah. And I think that is an interesting study in and of itself. Like, when you feel like you start to unwrap the weight or whatever, does like what goes on in your supplementary motor area of your brain to like correct for force production? Or do you just think, well, it could be heavy. So I'm going to go 100%. What do you think? What happened there? Yeah, I mean, I think that it's super fascinating. I think both of us when training towards one rep max strength, we actually pay a lot of attention to the immediate feel of the weight when we unwrap it. And I vividly can recognize periods where I unwrapped it. I'm like, oh, this weight feels like 150 pounds lighter than I expected it to feel. So this is about to fly today. And then other times where it's far, it feels far heavier than you expected to. And so, you know, depending on the context impacts your decision making in that front. But I do remember, you know, years ago, I think it was Bryce Lewis was doing some training. And I remember, I don't know if it had to do with some, maybe some like performance anxiety on the platform or what was what led to it, but he was training where he would have other people load up his bar and put black trash bags over the ends of the weights. And he just went and lifted what his coach put on the bar for him without him having any knowledge of it so that he wouldn't have any kind of like, I guess, negative mindset going into the set, which was interesting to watch at the time. Yeah, I mean, I'm just thinking about and granted, I'm primed a little bit by looking at the weights, I can like tell what it is. Yeah. But what if, for example, you had calibrated kilo plates, but they were the wrong colors? And so like all the reds were blues, instead of being 25, just 20, I don't know, like it would do something, it would prime you in a different way. That'd be a cool experiment. Yeah, maybe, maybe these researchers, since they're powerlifting nerds like us, maybe they'll do that next. So anyway, yeah, they had a heavy, you know, walkout one was 110% and one of the times they visited the lab, and the other one was the placebo walkout was like 30% of the one rep max. So they just walked it out, they held it for 10 seconds, and then they rewracked it. Then they rested for five minutes, and they performed three sets of one repetition at 92.5% of the one rep max, and then data was collected on bar velocity, RPE, and muscle electrical activity via EMG. So results. For both the light and heavy walkouts, power and velocity tended to decrease in the sets performed after the walkouts. No surprise there, you're just lifting heavy weights over and over again, some fatigue is going to occur. RPE also tended to increase in both groups across the sets. However, the decrease in average power and bar velocity were slightly less in the group who did the heavy walkout, and the increase in RPE was also slightly less. Now, this mostly pertained to the very first set after the heavy walkout. And these changes while statistically significant were relatively small. I'm not going to bother reading you the numbers because they would be meaningless. You'd be like, dude, that's just numbers. I don't know what you think of that. I'm telling you though, like, they're not impressive. So then there were also no differences in electrical activity in the muscles as measured by EMG. So to summarize, this study looked at doing a heavy walkout prior to some heavy single repetition squats sets, and it may preserve bar speed and reduce RPE slightly in the very next set. However, the effect does not appear to be very big. And we're talking about like less than a half point in RPE difference. And there were no differences in muscle electrical activity between the heavy and light walkout groups. And the preservation of velocity was also what I would consider to be like an artifact, potentially. It's just not big enough for you to be like, wow. And to me, this is not particularly strong evidence of a benefit from heavy walkouts on or short term performance for one, because statistical significance does not equal clinically significant. In this case, the clinic is the gym. And so the numbers are just too small for me to believe that they're either real or meaningful, certainly. It's also difficult to imagine that these small differences, again, limited to the first back offset would actually lead to better results long term, meaning like someone gains more strength or gains more muscle mass or whatever. It just seems like kind of an interesting finding in a small group that's ultimately like a shoulder shrug. Like, I don't even know that this is real. What do you make of this? Deeply unimpressed as well. I wonder if you compared it with like, have a different group that doesn't do the walkouts beforehand, but instead you just like hype them up before they're set. That would probably have or play them their favorite song, give them a trap slap. And I think that's part of the takeaway is that a lot of this is kind of subjective individual preference based types of things that work for certain people from a performance standpoint in terms of like pre-exercise rituals and various other kind of things that I, you know, if somebody tells me, gosh, when I do a heavy walkout before my set, I feel like Superman going into it. I'm like, cool, like who am I to argue with it? I'm not going to go out of my way to use this ahead of time for people. Unless I think my persistent use case for this is like, somebody who sucks at walking out a heavy weight, like, then it's practice practicing that skill rather than aiming to use it to improve performance on a subsequent squat set. I'd rather just like, I don't know, yell at them a little bit more during their set to like try harder or like tell them this, you know, try to throw the bar off their back when they stand up out of the bottom. And I bet that that would actually have a bigger impact on bar speed than just like holding a heavier weight beforehand. Yeah, yeah, I agree. It's personal preference for barbell sport athletes. Like if you're a powerlifter, for example, this is just, and you prefer doing this, I think it's fine. I'd be more interested to know, like, even if you didn't hype people up, even if you didn't trap slap, even if you didn't play their preferred song, what about just resting more? Sure. You know, like, I assume there's some level of fatigue from the heavy walkout. Yeah. And even some for maybe the placebo walkouts, what about just like hanging out? Yeah, or like visualizing you moving a weight quickly during your rest period. You know, a lot of like, I'm a bigger fan of that, arguably, than some of these other things. Yeah, yeah, I prefer for powerlifters if they're going to do the walkout is more practice, they learn how to pick the weight up, walk it out or whatever and stabilize the weight, you know, if that's something that they struggle with. Like if they, you prefer to somebody to take like three steps, two to three steps out of the rack, but if they take like a dozen, you're like, okay, we should we should practice this maybe. For Olympic weightlifting, I like the front squat, front squat rack holds, but that's more of an isometric like strengthening exercise for them to be able to hold a heavy weight in the rack position. I think there's probably a better training effect there. For overload work, though, I think actual heavy eccentric work is beneficial. And I program that regularly. Now, most people don't have access to like weight releasers, like the stuff that actually comes off the bar when you hit the ground. I've had those before. They're cool. But gosh, what a pain in the ass. Very cumbersome, totally. Yeah. Also, like, maybe I'll try to find this and I'll link it in the show notes. Mike T has this thing, he's in his garage, of course, and he's he walks out, I think the bar weight was like, it was 770 something or close to 800 or whatever, like on the bar. And then weight releasers, he had like 150 or 135 on each side. And if you've never seen these things, they like hang off the bar, and they do oscillate, right? Like I said, a chains, but they're not chains. It's just it's a long metal pole with weights on the bottom of it. And so this thing is swinging. Yeah. And but to his credit, he goes down to the bottom and the weight releasers pop off, and then he stands back up with it. Look, you're stronger eccentrically than you are concentrically by about 20%. So it makes sense. There's some decent training effect there's the pain in the butt to use chains can work, although it's slightly different because the chains obviously stay on the bar. So I don't know if that's really eccentric overload work. Some partial range of motion work for upper body stuff like floor press, board press can work again. It's not the same type of eccentric overload work, but can be useful. I just don't think that heavy walkouts outside of like skill development are super, super useful. Yeah, for powerlifting. Yeah. All right, we're back here on the 2025 research review with Dr. Austin Baraki. We're going to talk about the challenge trial. I got a couple requests from medical colleagues to talk about this. We talked about it previously on our first episode of the rundown and now we're going to get into it. Let's just say that this this study is challenging to not only interpret, but also like rationalize like how did the authors come to this these conclusions? So this study is titled Structured Exercise After Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Colon Cancer. Do you want to do like a layperson interpretation of what that study title actually means? Yeah, sure. So basically, when you have a any form of cancer, there are various types of treatment modalities that people can get. And so there can be people might be familiar with chemotherapy, which is usually just drugs of some kind that are ideally targeted towards that particular biology of the cancer that the person has, whether it's a solid tumor in any particular organ, or it's what we'll call a liquid tumor, or a hematologic or a blood based cancer like leukemias. All these things are different diseases. So this is important when people talk about just like quote unquote a cure for cancer. Each cancer is an individual, you know, subset and arguably each individual person's particular tumor that they have has its own unique biology and the ideal scenario, which we're getting closer and closer to each year is better defining the individual biology of each person's cancer and trying to target it with kind of the most modern, you know, agents that we have. So you can use chemotherapy in various different ways. You can use chemotherapy prior to surgery, for example, to try to shrink a tumor to make it easier to take out. You can give people chemo ideally to just actually cure resolve the cancer itself. Or you can use it after some of these treatments as well. This can be paired with other things like surgery to try to cut out a tumor if it's a minimal to that. Or it can or you can use a targeted radiation therapy. And these can again be used in various combinations and in various sequences to try to achieve disease remission to the extent you can. And so part of this idea of combining therapies, you can have things that are called like adjuvants that can be kind of paired with another form of treatment ideally to enhance the overall treatment effect. And so this is a trial that is using chemotherapy. And then you're trying to combine it with the application of exercise after that treatment to see how does this impact their outcomes after going through their chemotherapy and surgical treatment kind of upfront. Yeah, perfect. All right. So the study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine, June. Most of the study took place in Canada and Australia. And so some background information. So colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer globally, second most leading cause of death. The typical treatment, as Dr. Baraki mentioned, is surgery and chemo for localized cancer. It does change if the cancer is spread, for example. But it does recur quite often 20 to 40%. You know, again, then there are unique differences in various types of colorectal cancers in certain populations. That all being said, exercise can reduce the risk of cancer. And that's just broadly speaking for all types of cancers. So it can reduce the risk of developing cancer, it can reduce the disease burden from certain types of cancer, and it can reduce or improve the disease free survival. So like not getting cancer again after it's been treated. So exercising in cancer, pretty good evidence that it can be beneficial. So for example, in a systematic review and meta analysis of 16 studies involving several hundred thousand participants, strength training reduced the risk of any cancer diagnosis by 12% and death from cancer by 15% independent of aerobic exercise activities. Now for colorectal cancer specifically, a meta analysis of 21 studies found that those who exercise the most had about a 25% lower risk of developing colon cancer compared to the least active individuals. Overall, more exercise is generally better for risk reduction and improving quality of life. And the impact on the cancer specific risk depends on the type of cancer, which is highly variable, highly variable. But it's generally exercise is generally beneficial for reducing the risk of developing cancer, reducing the risk of its recurrence and reducing death from cancer in addition to like quality of life. I think what people say exercise is, you know, prevents cancer, both of our eyes get a little big and then they roll to the back of our head because we're like, I mean, all types of cancer, that's probably not true. But like most types of cancer that, you know, develop later on in life that can potentially be impacted by lifestyle. Sure, exercise is beneficial, but like some things that are mostly genetic, probably not a big effect on the cancer risk itself, but certainly could improve quality of life. That's kind of where I'm starting from my base, my baseline here. Yeah, this is just reflecting again, how cancer is not one thing. And so when somebody says that, I'm like, gosh, there are a lot of cancers that I would not expect to have any significant, you know, response from a, from a prevention standpoint to exercise. That's not to say that those patients shouldn't because if you develop cancer, again, the better shape you are going into treatment, the better shape you maintain while you're being treated, the better shape you have after treatment, the better your overall outcomes are going to be in general. But to say that it's going to prevent certain types of, I mean, there are some where it's like, if you have this gene, you're overwhelmingly likely to get this cancer no matter what you do from a lifestyle standpoint. And there are others that are super, super lifestyle responsive. And some of those are the ones, especially like a lot of the obesity associated cancers, or if someone has, you know, I can think of indirect ways if somebody has like, you know, pretty significant fatty liver disease, it's like, that responds pretty nicely to like high intensity exercise and to, you know, pretty modest weight loss. And so that's a way by which you could say, well, it's preventing liver cancer, quote unquote, well, it's one particular type of liver cancer that can develop in a subset of people who have fatty liver disease that persist long enough to generate that risk. But that's a very different claim and a lot less sexy than it just like prevents cancer broadly speaking. Do you ever feel like we like are the crushers of joy? You know, like people say some like, like exercise is good for cancer. And we're like, well, actually, there's we just, I do think, you know, if we're trying to be good science communicators, then the information needs to be correct, it needs to be accessible. And we need to not embellish. So I do think that as much as misinformation kind of harms, so does like misinformation that's embellishing the effect of something that's also harmful, I think. Yeah, this takes me back to a lot of, you know, things in the past five to 10 years that have happened in the public health space and then conversations around it. And I agree that accuracy matters here. And, yeah, to your point, it might seem trivial or annoying that we say things like this. But we've seen the kind of more advanced conclusions that get drawn when this stuff is not delivered in a very clear, accurate way. And the most obvious example in my mind that I tend to think about is during the pandemic time, when there was this idea, and this heralds from, you know, people who don't necessarily buy in entirely to concepts of germ theory, and they're more into the like, quote unquote, terrain theory that like the problem is not that the pathogen or the virus or the bacteria exists, but rather that the person's body is sufficiently unhealthy, that it left them vulnerable to getting this disease. And so then it's just if you are healthy, then you won't get this disease. And then that gets into, you know, effectively a ton of patient blaming and for getting sick. And so it's not to say that, you know, population wide health couldn't improve for sure. But it led to a pretty, I don't know, aggressive lack of empathy for people who got ill, just because maybe it's like, oh, well, they died of COVID. Well, were they, did they, you know, have a excess body fat? Did they have blood pressure? It was that it was their fault for not exercising enough to be healthy enough to not die from COVID. And so we don't love those conclusions, because even if you are quite healthy, you know, you can also get quite ill and potentially die from things, regardless of that. So it is, yeah, we big fans of exercise here, but I think that that's part of why we aim to deliver kind of accurate nuanced messaging around it, rather than making overly broad sweeping claims like, well, if you just exercise more than nothing bad will ever happen to you, from a medical health standpoint or something like that. Yeah, ever. Yeah, you're protected, you know, 100% effective. Yeah. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the study. So it's just under 900 subjects. The average age was 61. It's about half women, half men. Now, all the subjects had undergone surgical resection of stage three or high risk stage two colon cancer. Plus they completed chemo within the last six months. And importantly, they were insufficiently active. They're not meeting the physical activity guidelines to be enrolled in the study, but they were also able to exercise. So those are a couple important criteria for inclusion in the study. Now they got randomized to either a  quote, health education group or a structured exercise group. Now, in the health education group, these folks basically got handouts on health education, so, like, exercise and nutrition, and standard sort of disease-specific follow-up. They didn't see, like, a behaviorist, for example, they didn't see, quote, physical activity consultant, which I assume is just, like, it's almost like legalese for, like, a trainer. So, that was the health education group. The other group was the structured exercise group. Now, they got three years of ongoing support from, again, physical activity consultant, personal trainer. I don't know. Yeah. Plus, they got the health education materials, plus they got an exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors. This exercise was conditioning only, so no resistance training. And I think about this, like, exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors that was just aerobic training. Like, who wrote that? Yeah. And, like, what are the specific considerations? Like, show me. Yeah. Yeah. Like, maybe walk, maybe ride a bike, maybe do whatever you want. Yeah. My understanding also, I think the supplement that laid out some of the stuff relating to the exercise protocol here was very lengthy and detailed, which raised some concerns or some commentary around, like, the practical feasibility or external validity of this for generalizing to the rest of the population if it was the, like, pretty elaborate and detailed kind of protocol that was in the supplement of this paper. Yeah. Yeah. As far as outcomes, they, for fitness-related outcomes, they measured adherence. They also measured submaximal VO2 max test to see, like, well, did they get fit or when they did the exercise, the group who was doing the exercise compared to the group who just got the regular health education, and they did a six-minute walk test, which is exactly what it sounds like. You get a timer for six minutes. How far can you walk? From health outcomes, they measured disease-free survival, so how long the people went without getting this type of cancer again. Overall, survival, which is exactly what it sounds like, so death from any cause, and adverse events among another handful of other outcomes that don't really change the kind of take on this paper. So we'll limit it to that. As far as results go, so one thing to speak to your point earlier about, like, the feasibility of this, it took 15 years to recruit enough patients, and colorectal cancer is, like, pretty common, and most individuals with colorectal cancer can exercise, and I would assume that since most people don't exercise, that most of these patients also were insufficiently active, so I don't know exactly why it took so long, but I suspect it was, like, hey, would you be interested in this study? Like, you're gonna, you may have to exercise, and people were, like, challenging. I mean, I obviously don't know the details of, like, why the recruitment was so difficult, but for it to take 15 years for a pretty common condition like this, that is concerning. Yeah, I agree. I see people with this and similar types of conditions all the time, and most of them, I'm like, yeah, you'd be a candidate for exercise in this type of a study, so it is an interesting question. Yeah. Yeah. Now, at baseline, both groups averaged about three hours per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity. The average six-minute walk test result was about 530 meters in six minutes, and for those of you wondering, the normal kind of six-minute walk test for an adult is between 400 to 700 meters, so they were insufficiently physically active insofar as they weren't meeting the guidelines, but they were able to basically give a normal functional test, in this case, the six-minute walk test. So that was a baseline. Now, after the intervention, the first thing I want to talk about is adherence. This was generally bad. Only about half of the exercise group attended the recommended exercise sessions that weren't mandatory throughout the study. Two-thirds of the exercise group attended the mandatory behavioral support sessions, so I'm like, we're not doing so hot here. Ultimately, it's like, okay, so they weren't really, and it progressively got worse throughout the study as well. So already we're like, man, this is challenging. And I thought one of the interesting things was they made this big to do about evidence-based behavior change, sort of, you know, theory, and a bunch of references to it, and I'm like, okay, well, how evidence-based is this stuff if it didn't really work? Yeah, I mean, I think this, to some extent, is almost a natural history of any behavior change intervention we see in terms of adherence to dietary interventions, adherence to exercise interventions that is naturally going to, there's going to be some attrition with time. So that's not terribly surprising. I think that the higher of an adherence you're able to achieve and maintain throughout a study, the more confident you are going to be that the differences in groups longitudinally are like related to differences in their actual exercise and the effects of that exercise compared with other things, because then you start to wonder what sorts of things led to that attrition, led to those, led to that drop-off, etc. Yeah, you would also expect that if there were differences in like cancer recurrence in mortality and quality of life or whatever, you would also expect there to be a big difference in physical fitness, and then you'd be like, well, it was probably due to the fitness then, but in this case, that didn't really happen. So for example, the group who was randomized to the exercise group, the structured exercise group, they only did about an hour or two, an hour and a half more exercise per week than the health education group. So they were both of both groups were exercising, and it just wasn't that much more in the exercise only group, which leads to the sort of predicted outcomes. The VO2 max wasn't really different, at least not clinically significant, because it was less than the minimal clinically important difference in VO2 max change. So like, I can't tell you that their VO2 max has got better because it wasn't a big enough difference for me to be confident about that. The six-minute walk test, yeah, if you were in the exercise group, you walked about 13 to 30 meters longer, which is again less than the minimal clinically important difference. Some like this is just an artifact pops possibly of retesting these individuals. Now, what you probably heard about in the headline, if you're tuned into this stuff, was that after a follow-up of about eight years, there was a 28% reduced risk of disease recurrence, so cancer recurrence or death from cancer in the exercise group compared to the health education group. Whoa, 28%. That's effectively better than all chemotherapy agents we have for this particular condition. It also reduced the number of recurrent colon cancer cases. So there were 65 individuals in the exercise group who got colon cancer again versus 81 patients in the health education group. Exercise also reduced the risk of new primary cancers that weren't colon cancer. So for example, 23 patients in the exercise group. Yeah, I had some other type of cancer that developed in the follow-up versus 42 patients in the health education group. And so if that was the headline, if you read something on CNBC or whatever, you'd be like, yep, exercise, panacea, preventing cancer, preventing death from cancer, more exercise. And actually, I'm not, I don't hate that because maybe it encourages more people to exercise even though it's wrong. This is implausible that people had that much of a reduced risk of cancer recurrence in this timeframe. We'll get to that in a second. The only other thing I wanted to talk about with results before we kind of do this interpretation thing was that of adverse events. So 79 patients in the exercise group and 53 patients in the health education group reported musculoskeletal adverse events. Presumably, injuries, they didn't really talk about this much in the supplemental material. Eight were considered to be related to the exercise intervention in the exercise group, which I guess if there was a silver lining of this study, you're like, look, man, about 900 people were randomized here and half of them did the structured exercise group and only eight in the eight years of follow-up had some sort of like musculoskeletal complaint that was due to exercise. Like, cool, cool. I guess that's fine. Yeah, I'm not terribly concerned about that. Feels like a favorable trade-off to whatever extent the benefits are true. It'd be a worthwhile trade-off. Yeah. So my interpretation, first off, is this 28% reduced risk of cancer recurrence or death from disease? Is that real? Seems implausible. I mean, it is probably net good. And I think I'm, I feel confident that, yeah, exercise generally is net good for cancer recurrence, cancer prevention, cancer equality of life with cancer, you know, all that sort of stuff. But it's not reducing the risk of disease in patients with cancer already by 28%. That seems highly unlikely. And there's been some other commentary on this study with respect to like, how quickly were the results sort of recognized versus the time course of the disease in general. So I don't know, does this seem plausible to you or are you in agreement that this seems highly unlikely? This, I would say this changes little to nothing about my general advice relating to exercise as it pertains to patients with cancer. Like, I'm still recommending it as enthusiastically as ever. But I'm not couching that in the claims of you're going to be way, you know, this specific percentage less likely to experience cancer, you know, recurrence, new cancer, die from cancer, et cetera. I'm, I think seeing some replication of something like this would increase our confidence if it was able to replicate. I think that, you know, you point out the discrepancy in like, well, one group exercise, the other didn't as, you know, to the same extent, but the lack of kind of proportionate differences in their fitness outcomes makes it challenging to conclude that the, whatever benefits are being reported are being mediated through this exercise-based pathway, right? And so it's like, you know, in other contexts, if we saw something that had marked, you know, cardiovascular, you know, impact and we're making claims around it impacted by way of like, you know, blood lipids or something, but then the group blood lipids weren't significantly different. It's like, well, maybe that's not the mediating variable that we are actually, you know, delivering this impact through if that impact is in fact real. So you have to have a sense of like, what is the proposed kind of causal pathway here if they didn't get that much fitter for exercise to deliver this big of an impact? Because in other areas, when we see, you know, in general, people who are like big responders to exercise training, they tend to, you know, have robust responses in a lot of different areas. It's less common for somebody to have a big, robust response to exercise in just one area and then be like a non-responder in some other variable. Yeah. All right, well, allow me to speculate and say, tell me what you think about this. So if we agree that the fitness didn't actually improve between groups, there was not a big discrepancy on like the VO2 max, for example, or the six minute walk test between groups, you're like, well, they didn't really get much fitter. So maybe this potential benefit is not mediated through increased fitness, but it still could be influenced due to increased amounts of exercise, perhaps like energy expenditure, right? So the mechanism that Ponser talks about, for example, that if you're using a bunch of energy for exercise, you have less energy available to like fuel nefarious processes like cancer or inflammation, for example. So to me, that seems plausible, but like ultimately, we don't know because energy expenditure wasn't really measured here. We don't see a big difference in weight loss between the individuals. So to the extent that there was more energy expenditure, like did they just counteract that by eating more because they didn't lose a bunch of weight and they're, they have a medical process that's going on right now that actually does tend to cause weight loss. So like, and you maybe you'd want to avoid that, I don't know. It seems plausible that that could be a potential mechanism, but overall, I just think that this amount of disease, risk reduction, mortality reduction, etc. seems to be a little high for what it probably, probably is. If they said, look, there's a 10% risk reduction in developing new cancer if you exercise, even if there wasn't a big difference in like fitness or whatever, I'd be like, well, yeah, most people just didn't exercise. And so that's bringing the things down. But 10% I would buy 28%. I'm like, seems if true, it's the most effective cancer treatment we've ever found for this particular condition, which seems again, unlikely. It's I agree. There's plausibility to other pathways. I think that that's what we would need to determine before we can feel confident in this. And, and, you know, to what I said earlier, like, should this be replicated? Should this type of finding replicate? Then you would say, oh, this is increasingly, you know, plausible as an outcome. But then how are we getting there? What is the what is the causal pathway? Because that would be valuable research for all sorts of reasons. Yeah. Not just because exercise can do this, but also because maybe there are other ways that you can, you know, augment that causal pathway to get a similar survival benefit, you know, beyond just exercise alone, maybe there are other ways to target the same thing. So identifying it is worthwhile if it's true. Yeah. So if I was doing a quality improvement project, how I would kind of like, it wouldn't exactly replicate this study, but it would give, I think, some maybe more practical sort of insights into what you do in the clinic, like with patients, particularly if you're working on oncology. So one, I don't know that this recruitment process and then the behavior change delivery is feasible. Recruiting 15, taking 15 years, that's a non-starter, this intensive resource heavy sort of behavior change stuff that didn't really work anyway. It seems like, man, that probably cost a lot of money, a lot of time, et cetera, and didn't really pan out. So let's maybe train oncology professionals on how to not only recommend exercise, but also like deliver some sort of program to individuals. And let's compare outcomes in those that do participate and those who don't. And so then that would just give us a better insight, like, hey, is this feasible? It doesn't work, you know, in clinic. And I think that would be something I'd be more interested in seeing with more patients and maybe a more diverse set of cancers as well, just to get a better sense of, like, what is the potential impact? And maybe you could come up with like a potential benefit calculator, this interactive tool where it's like, look, if you start exercising, it is likely that you're going to see this benefit. And that might be motivation for people to start or stop, like, look, man, you got this particular type of cancer. Exercise is going to be great for quality of life, but I can't tell you it's going to actually improve your survival. So people should know if you're going to things with eyes wide open, I think. I would also have liked to see resistance training. It's like, if you wrote an exercise recommendation book for colorectal cancer survival, I don't know, you can just talk about aerobic training, like, you know, especially with the risk of sarcopenia from chemotherapy, and in particular illness, like, how are you're not talking about resistance training? Why was that included seems maybe it's just a tracking thing, like it's really difficult to track resistance training participation compared to like aerobic training. I don't know, but that was annoying to me. Yeah, depends on the resources you have at your disposal to guide this exercise. If it is intensive in person type training, that's much more straightforward. You know, I was participating, you know, with the colleague in a research study around exercise in cancer survivorship, basically in patients who've survived their cancer, that study, there was a pilot study. And that was actually getting done just before pandemic. And then once that hit, it ended up shutting down subsequent research because we weren't able to have a much larger cohort of patients coming into the gyms at the time to do that. So to whatever unfortunate consequences that had, it did shut down that project at the time, but it was set up to involve both strength and some aerobic training as well. And that's something that, you know, in most, you know, areas of exercise oncology, of course, it needs to be pretty individualized to the patient, their symptoms, their limitations, their abilities, things like that. But ideally, it does include a component of both. And, you know, I think for the most frail, as in other contexts, the strength training is arguably a more important piece than the aerobic, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So for individuals who are either currently have a cancer diagnosis or are looking to reduce the risk of cancer, particularly colorectal cancer, I think both of us would still recommend exercise. Whether we're talking about prevention, whether we're talking about reducing disease burden, improve survival, improve quality of life, big fans of exercise. I don't know what the exactly the percentage risk reduction there is out there. Again, that's going to be highly variable based on the individual and the type of cancer, etc. Again, we would recommend resistance training and aerobic training. And we also acknowledge that implementation is challenging just because behavior change is challenging. Yeah. Just like behavior changing in any other areas challenging, it's no less challenging here. Arguably in many ways, it can be more challenging. Because a lot of times, you know, I've cited these data before that as soon as somebody gets a cancer diagnosis, about 75% of patients tend to decrease their level of physical activity. Like that day, basically, because suddenly you have this illness, you're sick, your self-concept changes around everything. And so it's only about 1% of people who somehow increase their level of physical activity after such a diagnosis. So we can do better there. Yeah. Plus add fiber to your diet, maybe consume fish, consider drinking coffee if you're not like other things for colorectal cancer risk reduction. All right. Final study. This is my favorite one of this particular batch. This is titled Zone to Intensity, a critical comparison of individual variability in different submaximal exercise intensity boundaries. Heck of a title, heck of a paper. This was published by Mike Snir et al. and a research group out of Germany. It was published in the translational sports medicine journal February 2025 issue. This spoke to my soul. It spoke to my soul because there's been a lot of hype around zone two cardio, for example. And I think that most people do not appreciate the limitations we have at actually identifying, yep, this is definitively zone two. And maybe it's importance. Like, and so, because people just say, oh, zone two, it's this heart rate, for example, I'm like, oh, for everybody? Just right. And there's no consideration of like individual characteristics. Are you sure? How confident are you in that? They're like, ah, I'm pretty confident. I'm like, okay, maybe that should, maybe you should adjust that. All right. So let's talk about some background information here. In conditioning, intensity refers to the metabolic demand of the activity. Now, whether expressed in absolute or relative terms, intensity determines the nature of the physiological stress and individual experiences during exercise, which influences the type of fitness and health adaptations obtained from exercise. For these reasons, exercise prescription should consider intensity based on the expected physiological stress and metabolic demand of the activity for the individual. Now, the current exercise guidelines recommend that all adults complete some combination of at least 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity conditioning each week, where moderate intensity conditioning exercise correlates to 3.0 to 5.9 metabolic equivalents and vigorous intensity activities are greater than six metabolic equivalents. For completeness, the latest adult compendium of physical activity classifies sedentary activities as 1.0 to 1.5 metabolic equivalents, which just for those listening at home, that means there's a gap. What happens between 1.6 and 2.9 metabolic equivalents? What is that? Just a no man's land? No one knows. Right. Is that just light intensity, I guess so, based on the current compendium? So, in a research setting where oxygen consumption can be directly measured, yeah, METs are probably a suitable instrument for characterizing intensity of an activity. They can also be used in conjunction with exercise duration to calculate total conditioning exercise load in metabolic minutes, MET minutes, with the current guidelines targeting a minimum of 500 to 1,000 MET minutes per week for public health. Outside of these settings, however, I don't think either of us would be on board with using MET-based prescriptions. They're often unpredictable between individuals due to differences in fitness levels, age, medical concerns, training experience, economy movement genetics, and more. So, for example, cycling at 10 miles an hour does not result in the same physiological stress in a young elite cyclist compared to an untrained older individual. And that's very intuitive, although there is a study that actually measured that. You can read about that in the show notes below. I linked it there. Lastly, metabolic equivalents are not easy to understand or monitor by patients or physicians. I think if you ask a physician who's, you know, not familiar with exercise prescription, what a metabolic equivalent is, what it stands for, they'd be like, I don't know. Something that happens on a stress test is probably the answer that you would get from them. 100%. So, there are a number of other parameters that correlate with exercise intensity, like heart rate, blood lactate levels, oxygen consumption rate, and respiration rate, breathing rate, to name a few. And so, we can think about the intensity of conditioning exercise to be this continuum, ranging from rest to maximal with light, moderate, and vigorous intensity exercise in between. There are a number of thresholds on this continuum that may be useful for exercise prescription. So, the first threshold that I want to discuss is the transition between non-exercise physical activity and exercise. Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by the musculoskeletal system that results in energy expenditure above the basal metabolic rate, whereas exercise in contrast is a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, goal directed towards improving physical fitness. Most activities of daily life would count as physical activity, not exercise. It has been suggested that exercise activities start at about 50% of someone's VO2 max or 60% of their maximum heart rate. For the five zone model of conditioning, right, where zone two has kind of gotten all this hype, this would be the start of zone one. So, below this exercise intensity would just be like regular physical activity activities daily life, but it wouldn't count as exercise. Now, the next threshold is the aerobic threshold. And when determined by blood lactate levels, this is sometimes called lactate threshold number one, which occurs at exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise to about two millimoles per liter. Lactate levels are otherwise stable because the body is producing and processing it or clearing it at a steady state. Now, when measured by respiratory rates, so how fast someone's breathing, this is called the first ventilatory threshold, since breathing rate has increased compared to resting values. Typical heart rates at this point range between like 65 to 80% of maximal heart rate, although this can vary significantly between individuals. And zone two in the five zone model is right before this threshold. That's important. Remember that. So, right before the aerobic threshold, that's the top of zone two. Once you pass the aerobic threshold, it's probably more zone three in that five zone model. The final threshold that I want to talk about on this continuum going from rest to maximal intensity conditioning exercise is the anaerobic threshold, which occurs at an exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise even higher as the body is unable to process it quickly enough for removal to keep it at a steady state. Again, when measured by blood lactate levels, this point is also often called lactate threshold number two, and lactate levels are often four millimoles per liter or higher. This point is also called the second ventilatory threshold when measured by the respiratory exchange ratio, which measures the amount of carbon dioxide produced compared to oxygen consumed. Typical heart rates here at this threshold are about 85 to 95% of maximal heart rate, which again varies significantly between individuals. Exercise performed below this anaerobic threshold, but above aerobic threshold, that represents vigorous intensity exercise, whereas exercise above this anaerobic threshold will be considered maximal intensity. So, for your five zone model people, zones three and zone four are below the anaerobic threshold, but above the aerobic threshold, and zone five is above the anaerobic threshold. Just to summarize, exercise starts at around 60% of maximal heart rate, below that's just like regular non-exercise physical activity. This is the start of zone one in the five zone model. Modern intensity exercise is below the aerobic threshold, but above the threshold when exercise begins, this is zones one and two in the five zone model. Vigorous intensity exercise is above the aerobic threshold, but below the anaerobic threshold, again this is zones three and four in the five zone model, and then maximal intensity exercise is above the anaerobic threshold. This is zone five. Does that sound, you're on board with me so far? Tracking. Tracking. All right. So, how does all of this apply to zone training, specifically zone two? Well, there's a bunch of different models here for exercise intensity. There's a three zone, right, light, moderate, vigorous, or heavy. There's a five zone model. We just kind of talked about that in some detail. There are even seven and eight zone models. Now, here's the important thing. There are no agreed upon definitions or cut points for any of these things, which makes it challenging to not only discuss, right, because what I call zone two, somebody else might call zone three, and there's just no like agreed upon consensus here. Other than maybe those aerobic and anaerobic thresholds, those seem to be pretty well agreed upon, but as far as how the zones kind of shake out relative to those thresholds, yeah, that's more controversial at this time. But all the hype around zone two training, as well as this current paper, uses the five zone model, and we'll focus on that. Now, using the five zone model, zone two is considered the aerobic endurance zone. It's typically done continuously, so interval training typically doesn't occur here. It's usually in that RPE three to six range of using a 10 point RPE scale, and it's again below the aerobic threshold. With respect to heart rate, zone two is likely somewhere in the 70 to 80 percent max heart range, maximum heart rate range, but there are large error bars on either side of that, because individuals vary greatly, which is what this paper focuses on. To summarize, this study aimed at analyzing the extent of variability in the most commonly applied reference values for heart rate, blood lactate, and breathing rate for zone two conditioning. They basically took 50 experienced cyclists, 30 women, 20 men, and they had them visit the lab twice. Now, all this this testing was done on bikes, and they basically measured a number of physiological variables that have been used to define zone two intensity in various different research settings. So, for example, they've measured, hey, look, what was the power output at 72 percent of maximum heart rate? What was it at 82 percent of the maximum heart rate? Thinking that 72 to 82 percent, that's zone two, for sure. They measured what was the power output at blood lactate levels of 1.5 millimoles per liter or two millimoles per liter or 2.5 millimoles per liter. Again, trying to figure out, like, what's the power output here? Is it consistent between these different variables? They measured the power output at 65 percent of VO2 peak. Now, I say VO2 peak and people are like, is that VO2 max? It's slightly different because it is the maximum VO2 that was obtained in a particular test, but it's not maybe the maximum VO2 value that someone could ever achieve in any test. So, it's slightly different but related. They also measured what was the power output at the first ventilatory threshold. What about the power output at the maximum fat oxidation rate? Because, in theory, in a perfect world, all of these variables would be pretty close to one another. They'd all have a similar sort of power output because they're all used to define the same thing. They would also be relatively similar between individuals for prescriptive purposes, meaning like a blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter would be at a similar VO2 peak, heart rate, and relative intensity between individuals. Because, if you're going to prescribe zone 2 training, it should be generalizable. Do you want to predict the results of this, Dr. Baraki? I think it'll be the hallmark of human biology, which involves lots of variation. Huge variation between individuals for all of these physiological variables. So, for example, blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter, which again is mostly accepted to be that sort of aerobic threshold, right? So, just above the top of zone 2. That had an average of an 83% max heart rate. That's what it correlated to, but it ranged from about 75% to 93% of people's heart rate max. So, if someone had a target heart rate, that may not correlate accurately with a blood lactate level of 2. Now, which is better? A blood lactate level of 2? Is that more accurately definitive of zone 2 or is a heart rate more accurate for defining zone 2? At a 72% max heart rate, well, that ranged from 35% peak power to 80% peak power. So, wildly different intensities. If someone had a target wattage to be in zone 2, for example, the heart rate could be all over the place. So, which is better? A target power output, right? Which is like weight on the bar or is it heart rate, which is like a more... Bar velocity. Yeah, right, exactly. And this continues for basically all variables. The percent VO2 peak ranged from 55% to 72%, depending on which other variable was being measured. The power output ranged from 125 to 224 watts for all these different zone 2 criteria within the same group. And again, these are all trained cyclists. So, it's not like you're taking untrained individuals. So, my interpretation of this is that there's huge variance in how people respond to a certain zone 2 prescription. And so, how you define zone 2 influences how zone 2 training is executed, which likely impacts the training adaptations that people are going to get. And I don't know which one is better for the desired training adaptations. Is it better to use a heart rate? Is it better to use a blood lactate? Is it better to use a wattage target? I don't know. But when you look at like endurance athletes...  it's probably speaking especially highly competitive ones. Their training intensity distribution is about 80-20. Now, granted, there's some variance here, depending on the sport, the person, and whatever, the phase of the season. But generally speaking, 80% of the work, the bulk of their work, is done in that zone one, zone two zone, those zones, lower intensity type stuff, whereas 20% is higher intensity. There is some evidence that doing more zone two work compared to zone one work might be better for performance. So, theoretically, it could make a hedge that I'd really want to find out what zone two is, so I could do most of my low intensity conditioning there rather than zone one. But I don't know how to prescribe it. Yeah. It's like by one variable, you could be quote-unquote in zone two, and then if you measured another variable, it might be wildly outside of it. And so which one do you prioritize or pick? You could make an argument of just pick one and stick with it. You could make an argument of measure all of them and see how well they correlate. And then to the extent that you have tight correlations, then maybe you can run with some combination of these things. I don't know what the pros or cons of this would be outside of just like if you have some consistent tool that you were using and you are progressing as evidenced by that metric over time, meaning that like it's like in strength training, if we prescribe a lift at a seven RPE and the weight you can lift at a seven RPE goes up, then you have demonstrated some progress. Whereas if you switch, you know, your outcome measures, then you don't know as much whether you have progressed. So some measure of consistency with which tool you were using might be the more important variable than which one you pick given that they may or may not correlate in an individual person. Yeah. I mean, I actually think that the analogy to resistance training is perfect here. So like if you're trying to prescribe zone two conditioning, it's the same as trying to prescribe a particular exertion during resistance training. So a couple of different ways to do it. You could use tests, some sort of test to come up with like a quote functional threshold for conditioning. It'd be like equivalent to like a one rep max test, right? With lifting. So this functional threshold, one of the tests that we prefer is this field test. Get on a bike, treadmill, whatever, you go 20 minutes hard. And the idea is to what is the maximum pace you can sustain for 20 minutes? What's your average heart rate throughout that kind of tells you your functional threshold? That's basically telling you like this is your anaerobic threshold. And so you can come up with heart rate percentages based on that functional threshold test and you can make your own chart for zone one, zone two, zone three, zone four, zone five. That's kind of how we do it with our general strength conditioning templates or other conditioning focused templates. So that's a test. It compared to barbell training, you test somebody's one rep max and you'd be like, look, we're going to program you to do 70% or five sets of four, for example. We know that none of those sets are going to be maximal, right? Just because you're so far away from failure, but they're all heavy enough to drive strength improvement. And we feel pretty good that you're unlikely to be too light. Just as we're pretty confident you're unlikely to be too heavy and causing too much fatigue, that's one way to do it. You could also guess and use a bunch of some number of different variables without doing any sort of testing. This is like, again, if you've never tested somebody's one rep max and strength training, so how would you go about prescribing below that they should lift? And similar to our use of RPE, we care more about precision than accuracy. Meaning that you're using the same method to sort of gauge your effort and exertion compared to it being bang on spot on, because there's a relatively wide range of sort of effective intensities, even within zone two. You don't need to be at the very top of zone two to make it maximally effective. And you don't need to be at the very bottom of zone two to make it minimally fatiguing. Somewhere in the middle is fine. It needs to be similarly hard as the target. Yeah, exactly. And so there are a bunch of different ways that you can do this. So for example, you could use RPE somewhere in that RPE four to six range. Now, if someone's like, well, I don't know what that means. And I'm like, OK, well, maybe that's not the best thing for you to use in isolation. But if I say RPE four to six, which requires your attention to maintain that pace, but it's kind of boring, it's not very hard. And oh, by the way, you should probably be somewhere in like 65 to 80% of your maximum heart rate. And oh, by the way, if you have any sort of like maximum power test that you've recently done, it should be about 40% to 50% of your peak power. Oh, and we can add like a ventilatory threshold, a breathing rate sort of test. So these are talk tests, for example. So basically, with a talk test, you have an individual who is exercising to recite a paragraph that takes about 10 to 15 seconds to complete. In the US, we commonly use the Pledge of Allegiance. You just try to say that while you're exercising. And then as soon as the passage is completed, you basically ask yourself, can I still speak comfortably? If the answer is yes, the result is positive. You're probably not intense enough to be right near that aerobic threshold. But if the answer is no, or if you're unsure, then it's like, okay, I'm definitively within zone two. I'm close to that that ventilatory threshold number one, which is good enough to be close to the top of zone two. And so you could use all of these. You could use one of them. You could use a couple of them, whatever you want. But it's more important, again, that you use the same method each time, rather than being super, super accurate, because you don't need to pinpoint the top of zone two or the bottom of zone two. Just be in the middle. Yep. Yep, similar concept to strength training. There's a range. Your body does not robustly respond to a load that is a kilo heavier or a kilo lighter, or even two kilos, or maybe even five kilos, or whatever the case is. Just there's a wide range. Being somewhere in the range, given how much variability and uncertainty and inaccuracy or imprecision there is around a lot of these measures, then do the best you can. And again, if it's staying similarly hard and your performance within that range of similarly hard is improving over time, then you are improving. Yeah. Yeah, one of the methods I like the best is the counting talk test. So you have somebody take a maximal breath in, and then as they're, after that, they count aloud using their typical talking pace, one, one thousand, two, one thousand, three, one thousand, et cetera, until they have to take another breath, the final number that they say before the first breath is recorded. Then you do the same test while they're doing exercise. And if you get to a value that's about half of what your at rest, the counting talk test is, great. Your smack dab in the middle of zone two, you're good to go. If it's more than that, I have concerns that you're in zone three. You've passed the aerobic threshold. And if it's about the same as what it was at rest, I have concerns that you're either at the beginning of zone one or maybe not even exercising at all. So that's one easier way to do it. But again, some people are going to say this and like, just give me a heart rate zone. And I'm like, well, it's going to be wide, too wide to probably use. Right? Because if you just try to get to 80% of your max heart rate, I'm like, I don't know if you're zone three, maybe trickling into some like zone four stuff, or you could be definitively within zone two. It just depends. Yeah, I don't know. It's just, when people talk about zone two training, I always want to ask them, like, what do you mean? Yeah. And like, how are you defining it? Because again, there's not really an agreed upon set of criteria that is generalizable to everyone or even most people outside of using ranges that are too wide to be useful. It's like saying, you should lift weights. And it should be done, but somewhere over 65% of your heart rate max. And you're like, that range is too wide to actually execute. Right? You're like, could I just date 65% of perpetuity? Should I ever go, is 75% better than 65%? What about 80%? I don't know, man. Yeah. And a lot of that is like, to what end? Like, what is the intended outcome of this training? Right? So if it's for general health purposes, then you could. But the other implication there is how much of it do you need to do to get the most benefit out of it? Right? So there's actually probably not anything wrong with doing an overwhelming majority, if not all of your, you know, aerobic conditioning at a very low intensity. Let's call it zone one. But like, if you want to actually enjoy as much health benefit as you can out of that, you need to be doing probably many, many, many hours of that per week, like an enormous volume of very low intensity stuff. If you do not have the time to do that, and you want to be getting, you know, all the health benefits you can out of your conditioning, then you might actually need to bump it up a little bit into a different intensity range for the amount of time that you're willing to put into it. I think that you and I would agree, like, hey, if we were back in our, you know, medical training period, and we were severely restricted on time, but we wanted to keep some conditioning in. As much as they're not my favorite thing to be doing, I'd be doing some pretty high intensity type conditioning work with the minimal time that I had available to me. Now my life is in a somewhat different position, and the amount of time that I have available to train is also different. And so I do a fair amount more lower intensity stuff because the trade costs are more favorable. I'm willing to spend the time. I actually don't mind it. And it reduces the fatigue cost so I can spend that fatigue on other things, like, you know, training or doing other sports and activities and things like that. So I think that's like the practical implication of why anyone should care about this is if you think you are following a particular protocol, if you think you're in a particular zone, you might not be getting as much as you think out of your training. If you were, say, you're far lower than that, and in order to get that benefit, you might need to double how much training volume you're doing. You might be kind of fooling yourself on that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just to do one more analogy to resistance training, I think for most folks who are not currently resistance training, my biggest concern is that they start doing resistance training. And then after that, I'm like, I want to make sure it's hard enough, right? And then within that kind of consideration, I also want to make sure I'm more concerned that it would be too hard rather than not hard enough. And so there's just such a wide range that I don't know that you have to get super, super accurate on this stuff until performance becomes your ultimate goal. But within that, it's going to be so individualized. Like you, for example, prefer lower intensity strength training than I do. I just respond a little bit better to higher intensity stuff. There's going to be that in conditioning too. And I think people who take their conditioning outcomes for performance very, very seriously likely do need advanced instrumentation, whether it's you're doing a lactate test while you're in the field, whether you've got a power output monitor, you're using heart rate stuff. I think that would be more useful for health. I'm more concerned that people doing this, again, it's not too hard, not too easy. And we've given you guys some tools to kind of implement that. Yeah, I like it. Good tips. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the 2025 June research review. Again, we talked about do heavy walkouts work in the squat. And not really. We talked about does exercise reduce cancer recurrence, for colorectal cancer by 40%. It's probably an embellishment. And what defines zone 2 cardio, still shoulder shrug emoji, there's too many different things and it varies. Before you guys go anywhere, please visit a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast. We can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.