 In 1704, an Italian anatomist, and surgeon named Antonio Maria Valsalva published a paper called, The Treatise on the Human Ear. He wasn't looking for a weight of squat 500 pounds, he wasn't interested in core stability, he was looking at gross, infected middle ears. He told his patients to plug their noses, close their mouths, then blow as hard as they could. The goal? Literally squeeze the infection out through a perforated eardrum. And so, for the next 150 years, the most famous maneuver in lifting history was the most famous maneuver in lifting history of the body. was just a dirty ear trick. But then, the 1850s happened. But then, the 1850s happened. Two German physiologists, the Weber brothers, decided to see what happened if you kept blowing. They did it to themselves until they induced bradycardia, a low heart rate, and they fainted. Suddenly, the ear trick became the Weber experiment. It was no longer a way to clear an infection, it was a way to stop your heart. By the 1960s, the medical literature was filled with reports of sudden death and ventricular arrest associated with the strain. And then, in 1985, a study by McDougall changed everything. He used catheters inside arteries of people who were maxing out on the leg press, and he recorded blood pressures up to across various, across various millimeters of mercury. To a cardiologist, the second most handsome doctor didn't happen, and the origin of the boogeyman. It's why your doctor, your trainer, and every safety first influencer tells you that you shouldn't hold your breath when you lift, assuming that the human body is a fragile tube waiting to pop. But what if they're wrong? Today, we're taking apart decades of the Valsalva phobia, and not just in lifters on the platform, but also in pregnant women and people with history of heart disease. And to help me cut through the BS, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, a man who never lets the pressure get to him, mostly because he knows exactly how to brace for it. He's also the subject of the most famous Valsalva meme to date. Dr. Austin Baraki, what's going on, man? Man, what an honor. It's been some time, I think, since I've seen that meme making the rounds, but it certainly still is out there and still from time to time. People send me versions, and I believe I received it in a handful of different languages and across various contexts of business and crypto and I don't know how much other things it's been ported into. Yeah, if there's a Mr. Worldwide, are you Dr. Worldwide when it comes to Valsalva? I hope so. Maybe I'll end up in a card deck of what do you meme one day. Honestly, that would be awesome. That would be amazing. Yes. Yeah, the real glow up. All right. Well, we're talking about the Valsalva maneuver, and so I guess this is as good a time as any as to define what is the Valsalva maneuver. So this sounds kind of like a high-end Italian suit or some form of balsamic vinaigrette, but if you're listening to this and you aren't currently driving or operating heavy machinery, actually, even if you are, you've probably already done one today without thinking about it. Perhaps this morning after a cup of coffee, if you catch my drift. But to do this, I want you to take a breath in, not a maximal lungs are about to burst type of breath, just a normal breath. Now, close your throat, keep your mouth shut, and try to exhale. Hard. You feel that immediate tightening of your gut and your abdomen? That's pressure building in your chest and maybe a little thumping in your ears? Congratulations, you've just successfully performed a Valsalva maneuver. You closed your glottis, you contracted your expiratory muscles, and you've turned your torso into a pressurized canister. Now, if you're a doctor, you were probably taught that what you just did is a good way to get rid of an irregular heartbeat, and if you're a lifter, you call it bracing. But to the man who actually gave this thing a name, Antonio Maria Valsalva, it was just a way to deal with some really gross ears. Austin, I don't know if you actually are familiar with the history of the Valsalva maneuver. I don't. My main experience is either in the lifting context or, yeah, to terminate certain forms of rapid heart rhythms. Yeah, well, so it was named after an Italian anatomist and surgeon from the 1700s, Antonio Maria Valsalva, actually wrote a paper called The Treatise on Human Ear. And it wasn't for squats. It was for middle ear insufflation, plugging the nose to blow out stuff inside your ears, in this case pus, from a perforated eardrum. And in a twist of irony, he described the maneuver for ears and never mentioned its effects on the heart or cardiovascular system, yet he eventually died of a stroke. Medicine do be like that sometimes. So at that point, this was just like a trick to get rid of against some pus in the middle ear. And that was in the 1700s. But the history is pretty interesting as far as how maybe some Valsalva phobia developed. So you fast forward about 150 years to 1850, and these two German physiologists, Edward and Ernst Weber, first linked this maneuver to the heart. They performed it until they induced bradycardia, which is a slowed heart rate, and then they fainted. They passed out. Technically, instead of it calling the Valsalva maneuver, you could have called it the Weber maneuver, perhaps. So that's 1850s. Go forward another 100 years, now we're in the 1960s and 70s. A few case reports started popping up about sudden death and ventricular arrest with the Valsalva maneuver. These are, again, case reports, not like large studies. But then things changed in the 80s. 1985, there's this famous McDougall study. This research group put intraarterial catheters, so basically pressure sensors, inside the arteries of people lifting weights. They were doing leg press at near maximal weights. And the average blood pressure that was directly monitored was 320 over 250. Now, just to give you an anchor, normal blood pressure, resting blood pressure is usually less than 120 over 80. So they were 320 over 250, with one individual achieving a blood pressure of 480 over 350. I don't know if this was the origin story, the villain arc for this Valsalva phobia in modern medicine, but it certainly could be. I mean, if you're a doctor in the mid-80s, you see a study like this coming up that blood pressure effectively looks like a typo or hypertensive emergency in any other setting. It makes total sense to me why some in the medical community kind of panicked. They thought, uh-oh, look at that 480 over 350. But, Austin, when we look at the anatomy of a Valsalva maneuver, it's not just one big spike. There's sort of a sequence of events here. Can you walk us through the four phases of the Valsalva maneuver? Because how long you hold that breath seems to make a difference. Yeah, it's super interesting, especially for physiology nerds like myself. And it is illustrative of a handful of different really important concepts between pressure and volume, concepts of homeostasis, of like how we have these neurological and cardiovascular reflex arcs that try to maintain certain parameters in like a reasonable range, whatever reasonable ends up being. But really like to support life, essentially. So the first phase, when you close that glottis or close off your throat and you're trying to exhale against it, that's when the muscles that facilitate exhalation are contracting, squeezing down around your rib cage, and essentially raising the pressure inside your thorax or your intrathoracic pressure, which goes up. This has two different implications. The first of that increase in intrathoracic pressure is essentially forcing blood out of the vessels that are in your thorax, while also preventing blood from the rest of your body from being able to effectively return to your thorax and eventually your heart. And so that's the initial phase when there is an immediate transient increase in blood pressure as that blood is forced out. And then because the blood pressure has rapidly gone up, some of that homeostasis comes into play and your heart rate reflexively goes down. And because cardiac output relates to the balance, so to speak, between your cardiac, between your, how quickly your heart is beating and then how much blood is being pumped out per beat. The next phase, as you kind of sustain your breath hold, has some more interesting sorts of consequences. As I mentioned, when the pressure in your thorax is really high, that prevents blood from returning to your heart from the rest of your body. This is why, for example, if you watch somebody from the moment they hold their breath at the start of a valsalva and you watch the veins in their neck, they will gradually become more and more engorged. That is like a traffic jam as blood is building up in those veins, trying to make its way back down to your heart. But there's a blockage, and that blockage is essentially that really high pressure. And so suddenly, because there's not enough blood coming back to the heart, well, the heart doesn't have what it needs to pump out new blood to the rest of your body. And so with that more sustained valsalva, that sustained breath hold preventing the heart from refilling and pumping out fresh blood, your blood pressure gradually starts to decrease. As the heart, as the blood pressure gradually decreases, your heart rate now goes in the other direction to compensate. It has to pick back up to try to maintain your blood pressure because you don't have the volume of blood. So you have to pump faster to try to get a similar enough amount of blood out to keep things flowing and to keep blood going to your brain and to keep you conscious. The next phase, if you were to release the breath hold or kind of allow air to come into your lungs, then suddenly all of that increase in intrathoracic pressure has dissipated. Now you have low intrathoracic pressure because that's how we actually take air in is by lowering the pressure in our chest. So we physically suck air into our lungs. There's a few kind of instantaneous changes that happen in that situation. Suddenly, we're not squeezing blood out of our chest anymore. And also, the blood vessels in our lungs are able to expand. So there's this kind of momentary pooling of blood in the lungs and kind of more on the right side of the heart with not quite as much yet filling the left side of the heart that's ready to pump it out to the body. And so when you're in that in-between state, not pumping a ton of blood out to the body just yet because it hasn't had time to equilibrate, you might have a little bit of that dizziness, that seeing stars. The blood pressure is not making its way up to your brain, and you might have a brownout or even borderline approach losing consciousness potentially. So this is actually when we see a fair amount of those types of passing out episodes is later. So if you've seen a lot of these lifting videos have certainly made their way around the internet where somebody actually often will complete the lift, and it's then after they set the weight down, for example, or re-rack the weight, and then it's like a couple seconds later after they have released their breath hold and things are trying to re-equilibrate that you start to see. It's like they have that glazed over look in their eyes, and maybe they start to have to brace themselves or they might actually collapse. And then the last period is when recovery happens. And this can be a period where there's actually some overshooting of the response physiology here. So the blood now that was previously kind of backed up in the venous system is rushing back to fill the heart, both sides. But our heart had been compensating for that low blood volume by beating away at a faster heart rate. And so now we have to kind of re-address, re-equilibrate, return to homeostasis because now we have all this blood coming back that's ready to get pumped out and our heart rate is still high. And so that's when blood pressure actually goes back up again because we have a lot of volume and a fast heart rate that's pumping. So sometimes people and myself, I know I've experienced this in this phase where you start to like hear your heartbeat in your ears, that like whooshing noise and things like that until it gradually kind of settles back down. All of that is because of these hemodynamic changes that are happening during recovery until your neurological reflex arcs and cardiovascular reflex arcs kind of resettle back into their normal state. So really interesting physiology that has to try to keep you conscious and equilibrated and maintain blood pressure because blood pressure is life. And a lot of it comes down to understanding what is the impact of pressure in your thorax on forcing blood out of your heart, preventing blood from coming back to your heart. And then what's the reverse sequence of that once you actually are allowing those pressure changes to reverse? Yeah, that's a great explanation. And I think one takeaway from that, you know, despite all of the interesting quirks and features of the Valsalva maneuver is that all of this stuff is reflexive. You're not consciously raising your heart rate, you know, lowering certain pressures here or there, anything like that. It's all reflexive, which actually kind of leads into the next section perfectly. We do on a regular basis perform Valsalva maneuvers reflexively all the time. And in addition, you can do them intentionally. But I think it's important to discuss when we do these things reflexively because that bears some importance when we discuss the idea of like not doing a Valsalva maneuver when you lift. So some real world examples of this reflexive or involuntary Valsalva. Every time you cough or you sneeze, these generate transient pressure spikes often higher than a submaximal squat. You're doing a Valsalva maneuver. If you've ever tried to catch like something falling off the counter, particularly if it's heavy, anytime you've gone to the bathroom, number two in particular, you're doing a Valsalva maneuver reflexively. You don't, again, usually have to think about it for most folks. Basically, when the body needs to produce and transmit muscular force efficiently, it wants to make your midsection rigid. And to do so, it increases the pressure inside your abdomen and your chest, which we call intra-abdominal and intra-thoracic pressure respectively. So there's a long mechanism here that I talked about on our podcast about belts. But Austin already described this when he was discussing the physiology, which I call the anatomy of the Valsalva maneuver, again, owing to our preferences. But I want to put some numbers on the pressure actually inside your abdomen. So he focused on the intra-thoracic pressure like in your chest. But underneath the diaphragm, you have your abdomen and you've got organs inside there. And that pressure bubble gets kind of transmitted to the abdomen. And then you have muscles all around there, which you can also contract to increase that pressure and also the rigidity of the segment. Now, if you're just baseline standing upright, not doing a Valsalva maneuver, the pressure inside your abdomen is about 20 millimeters of mercury. Now, if you're standing and you're doing a Valsalva, it's about 65 millimeters of mercury. If you were to jump, for example, your intra-abdominal pressure goes up to about 170 millimeters of mercury. So about three times just standing and performing a Valsalva. And in resistance training, research shows that when you hit approximately 80% of a maximal voluntary contraction, not necessarily a one rep max, but you could use that sort of proxy, your body will reflexively do a Valsalva maneuver, again, to not only produce force and transmit force more rigidly, but perhaps as a sort of protective mechanism against moving under load. And again, this happens in day-to-day tasks, not just in the gym. This has been directly studied in a variety of very interesting ways where they place catheters in all sorts of places that you wouldn't want them otherwise. I'll let you guys figure that out. But when subjects were told to lift maximal loads, not necessarily in the gym, but, you know, whether it's a box, a crate, something like that. And even when they weren't given any breathing instructions, they instinctively performed a Valsalva maneuver. And also in studies where they actually coach people to breathe in during one part of the lift and breathe out during another part of the lift, you know, breathe in on the way down, out on the way up. People still do this reflectively anyway. And again, this bears some importance when we discuss, like, advice to the contrary to not perform a Valsalva maneuver. So given the reflexive nature of the Valsalva maneuver when humans exert themselves, Austin, where do you think the advice to breathe in on the way down and out on the way up even come from? I think a combination of a lack of understanding of some of this kind of subconscious reflexive element of this. But there is some extent to which there is a degree of control. You know, I think that becomes less and less controllable with higher and higher intensity demands. Right. And so it almost ends up being like a way to leash yourself or to, like, pull the reins back on, like, how hard you can actually exert yourself out of just fear of, you know, people see what your face looks like when you're bracing really hard. And potentially some concern over blood pressure increases, even though, again, as we've talked about before, like, all exercise will increase your blood pressure while you're doing it. But to whatever extent there's a matter of degree and somebody might perceive or believe that less of a blood pressure excursion may be safer than a greater blood pressure excursion. Again, not saying that's necessarily the case, but if that's somebody's belief system, then they might say, well, if I have you do this, it'll limit how hard you can go, limit your intensity, limit the intensity of the Valsalva, maybe limit this blood pressure excursion. Maybe it's like a chain of reasoning based on maybe a premise where they think that that'll lead to, you know, a safer experience down the line. Yeah, there was some interesting studies where they were looking at people, again, just what they would do habitually when they were asked to do some sort of lifting task. And even when they were coached to, you know, breathe in on the way down, breathe out on the way up, there'd be like a pause in the exhalation, almost like they're doing like a miniature, a mini Valsalva on the way up. Again, it's just reflexive and you can't really undo the reflex. But yet to your point, if you were trying to put like a, you know, a barrier against a, you can't lift above a certain point where you're doing a Valsalva for whatever reason. Yeah. I suppose that's reasonable, but you better not take that weight anywhere near failure. Totally. It's, I mean, it's like in, in certain rehab contexts, for example, where I might say you're going to do a set of 12 with a five, three, zero tempo or something. It's like, try to go heavy on this. Like, I don't see that happening. Right. It's another way to do that. If, if we, I could just as easily in a rehab context, say, I want you to squat a set of 10 where you can like breathe continuously throughout the entire rep or something. That would just be another way that I could like put reins on somebody and pull back on them so they can't go too hard too soon. Yeah. So that's the story with reflexive Valsalvas. But what about an intentional or consciously performed Valsalva maneuver? The intentional Valsalva maneuver does tend to create higher intra-abdominal pressures than normal breathing or reflexive bracing at submaximal loads. So if you're squatting 70% or lifting 70%, for example, doing this consciously is going to produce a higher intra-abdominal pressure than what you would do reflexively. But once the weight gets heavy enough, it, the differences are not, uh, are not substantial. So we think around 90% of a one rep max, um, the difference between intentional and reflexive Valsalva maneuvers effect on the intra-abdominal pressure kind of shrinks. Basically by the time you're maxing out, the reflex is so robust that it's going to happen regardless of what you're telling your glottis to do in the back of your throat. So, um, in sport, the Valsalva maneuver is often used to anticipate the load rather than react to it. So it has to do with the sort of timing, the pressure with the initiation of the lift or the effort, something like that, mainly to improve efficiency and coordination. Um, so if you train yourself to do it, it tends to be a result in a more efficient movement pattern, more efficient performance. Um, and adding a belt on top of that also seems to increase intra-abdominal pressure. We said that baseline just standing upright, the intra-abdominal pressure is about 20 millimeters of mercury. If you just do a Valsalva while you're standing upright, it's about 65 millimeters of mercury. If you were to jump, it's about 170 millimeters of mercury doing 90% of your one rep max deadlift. When this has been tested directly, uh, with no belt, the intra-abdominal pressure is about 156 millimeters of mercury in this particular study. And then with a belt, it was 175. And so it's not that much different than jumping or sneezing or coughing, you know, for example. Uh, but the duration is obviously going to be a little bit longer. And again, these are intentional Valsalva maneuvers, not reflexive. So Austin, you know, if doctors are worried about doing a Valsalva while lifting, how do they justify a patient sneezing or jumping in an unrestricted manner, which generally generates a similar, if not greater increase in intra-abdominal pressure? Yeah. I mean, I think it's a combination of like, how much do they know about this, but also the fact that one is volitional or by choice, the other is not. And then, yeah, to your point, duration, usually the lifting one is going to be longer in duration, especially cumulative exposure. If you're doing more than one effort or multiple rep sets or something like that compared with a sneeze or two or maybe three, um, or, or a jump, um, that might be brief, very transient and self-resolving. If they're thinking about this in terms of like a cumulative exposure or a dose response type thing. A lot of this is kind of physiologic hypothetical reasoning compared with anything that has like direct outcome evidence to support it for sure though. Yeah. Well, let's get into it. And I think to truly understand why your doctor, your trainer, and maybe even your mom tell you not to hold your breath when you lift, we have to look at the evidence through their eyes. To me, the primary concern is usually blood pressure. And if I'm the prosecution, the primary piece of evidence is that 1985 McDougal study. Again, they used intra-arterial catheters to measure the blood pressure of people doing near maximal leg presses. And one individual went up to 480 over 350, which again, if I ever saw that on a blood pressure cuff, I would like, firstly, wouldn't believe it. You're a hundred percent. I'd be like, I think I broke the thing. Need confirmation for sure. But yeah, it would certainly get your attention. Yeah, for sure. Um, so that's like the primary concern. And then there's a secondary concern, um, where the thought is like, there's some inconsistent pressure because some argue that the high pressure that we create in our chest and in our abdomen, that intra thoracic and intra abdominal pressure. Some people argue that's like a pressurized suit that supports the blood vessels and their increased blood pressure during a valsal maneuver from the outside. But people will say that's inconsistent support. They believe that while the pressure inside your arteries is going up, the external pressure, the squeeze from your lungs, your gut, or the fluid in your brain might not rise perfectly in lockstep with it or fast enough to match it. And this creates a high transmural pressure gradient, essentially a massive pressure gap between the inside and the outside of the vessel, which could cause the vessel to rupture. And on top of that, exercise guidelines are generally geared towards the general population. And it's estimated that like one in 50 people have an undiagnosed barianeurysm just hanging out. And for these individuals, the concern is that a max effort valsalva maneuver sends a high velocity pressure wave directly to a potentially weak point in the brain's vasculature, right to the circle of Willis. And then there's an additional concern that involves the release of the valsalva maneuver just as much as the actual hold. Moving from this extreme pressure of the lift with the valsalva maneuver to a sudden vacuum where you exhale creates this vascular shear stress. And if someone had a subclinical plaque, perhaps that turbulence could theoretically dislodge a plaque that could lead to an ischemic stroke, for example. And then lastly, there's the risk of fainting by severely impeding blood return to the heart. Cardiac output can drop so low that the brain shuts down as a survival mechanism. Passing out while supporting a heavy barbell introduces a high risk of secondary traumatic injury, for example. There's other concerns around the heart. Oh, it's just bad for your heart. It's got to be bad for you. But Austin, when you weigh these potential outcomes against the relatively minor gain in trunk stiffness with the intentional valsalva, it could be viewed as this unjustified risk. Am I missing anything? If you were talking to another doctor, how would you go about determining whether or not the valsalva maneuver is worthwhile or not? Yeah, I don't find myself having this conversation as often with other doctors and more often with patients. And in that context, it comes down to like, well, what is the goal? What's important to you? What are we trying to accomplish? Because if the question was, like, go back to the meme photo of myself pulling a fourth, I think that was like a set of 620 deadlifts for a set of four. And that was like the final rep that was like pretty difficult. Is that necessary for health outcomes? Certainly not, right? And that's not something that, you know, you're ever going to see in like general population physical activity guidelines of you need to reach that level of exertion to improve health outcomes because that's just not going to be something that's necessary. On the other hand, if, you know, these risks were manifesting at the rate that might be expected based on this line of reasoning, just based on the prevalence of some of those things that you described, the baseline prevalence, population prevalence of undiagnosed aneurysms, of atherosclerotic plaque, things like that. We should actually see a much higher amount of injuries, incidences of these things, of cardiovascular events, of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhages in the brain as a result of people doing Valsalva's not just in the gym, but from just routine exposure in day-to-day life. Now, certainly these things can happen from time to time, but there has to be more to this if the prevalence of the kind of dreaded outcome that we're fearful of, that we're advising people to avoid this as a result of that fear, if it were really as likely as the kind of that recommendation would presuppose, we should be seeing a lot more of it. And we don't. And I'm not saying that I have all the answers or all the perfect explanation for why maybe it doesn't, you know, linearly pan out in the way that might be predicted from like baseline physiologic principles of like, what does blood pressure do to wall stress and things like that? But just there clearly is something there. And then some of it just might be like stochastic, probabilistic, you know, sort of things. But that's why I'm less apprehensive about these things in terms of their trade-offs, especially if the Valsalva is kind of in keeping with the person's goals. So meaning that somebody like really values performance and I don't assess them to be at some catastrophically high cardiovascular risk otherwise that they have like, you know, a five plus centimeter, you know, thoracic aneurysm that's like, you know, needing to potentially get impending, you know, repair or something like that. Yeah, we're going to have a little bit of a different conversation in that context, mainly because I'm not the person that they should be talking to. You know, they should be getting, you know, expert advice from the person who would be offering that procedure to them. So that's kind of some of my thoughts on this topic. It's a complicated one, not one that I would claim to have all the answers to. But gosh, if it were as simple as a lot of that kind of logic would presuppose, we should be seeing way more of these things happening in the real world. Yeah. And again, I always come back to this idea of like, OK, well, if we do suppose that there's some nonzero risk, right, and it is definitively not in keeping with the person's goals to expose them to that risk. Mainly, they're like, I'm just doing this for health. Performance is, you know, secondary goal. Like, I like it, but, you know, I just I'm really just doing this for health. And so then you'd say, all right, well, look, we're not willing to accept any risk from this. It's kind of like the mixed grip use in the deadlift. You're like, OK, just use straps. Mm hmm. Because this is reflexive, then you're also signing this person up to use lighter weights, not go closer to failure. And perhaps now you're compromising the actual benefits of the exercise intervention itself because it's going to be underdosed. It would be very challenging to make up for that if possible at all. I just don't think there's a way to train productively for most folks that completely removes the balsalva maneuver because, again, it's reflexive. It's just not going to be hard enough. Yep. Agree. Completely removing it is not really a realistic thing to recommend for like life in somebody. Incompatible with life. Yeah. As you've said before, if there's a situation where truly performing any degree of bracing balsalva even instantaneously is a threat to your life, like you ought to be probably in a cardiovascular ICU. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. People are like, what are the pre-exercise screening criteria I really need to meet so I know that I can exercise safely? I'm like, all right, look, if you can ambulate, move about your environment without much assistance. If you can go to the bathroom without much assistance, right? And you're able to consciously make your own decisions. I think you can exercise. There's probably a way for you to exercise. Yeah. If any of those things are compromised, you probably need to be in a, you know, in some sort of observatory unit in a medical facility because you're impending surgery for some sort of emergent condition. I agree. All right. Well, let's look at the opposite side. That was looking at this issue through the lens of somebody who's very concerned about risks. So what does the science say? It's easy to look at the blood pressure numbers like 480 over 350 and assume a blowout is imminent. But focusing solely on the internal blood pressure ignores the most important variable in vascular safety, transmural pressure. A blood vessel doesn't fail just because the pressure inside of it is high. It tends to fail when the pressure inside significantly exceeds the pressure on the outside of the vessel. So if you have 400 millimeters of mercury pushing out, but 390 millimeters of mercury pushing back in, the actual stress on the arterial wall is pretty much negligible at that point. And in the gym, we do in fact create a high pressure environment that surrounds and supports, maybe even cradles, the vascular system. Austin, this concept of a pressure gradient, the transmural pressure across the blood vessel wall or any space in the body, really, that's very important. Can you break that down for our listeners? Yeah, I think you actually did a perfectly fine job of describing it already. Pressure gradients are how things move. You know, that's the same way as I described of how we breathe, for example. We generate a pressure gradient between the outside environment and our lungs, and so air rushes in, and then when we're ready to breathe out, we increase pressure in our chest and air goes back out. The same way our heart generates, you know, blood flow. Increases the pressure, squeezes down, blood flows out, lowers the pressure by relaxing, blood fills it back up again. So pressure gradients is a very important part of life, and so transmural is just a fancy way of saying across the wall. And so the pressure difference across the wall of a blood vessel is the physiologic parameter that we're talking about here that is of interest when having this type of conversation. It doesn't need to be too much more complicated than that, at least for our purposes here today. Yeah. All right, so let's look at some evidence on this transmural pressure gradient. So one study had dudes do leg presses again. It seems to be a very common exercise amongst the exercise scientists. It was pretty heavy, too. 80% and 100% of their one rep max while using an ultrasound to watch their heart during the valsalv maneuver while they were exercising. And while blood pressure skyrocketed, the stress on the heart walls remained stable or decreased if they measured it by ultrasound. Why did this happen? Well, the high pressure inside of the chest actually pushes back against the walls of the heart. So it's the walls of the heart, wall that is contracting, are trying to go outwardly, but you've got this high pressure system on the other side that prevents that from becoming too great. There's also direct measurements that show the intrathoracic pressure surrounding the aorta. That's the major blood vessel coming off of your heart. That increases one-to-one with its internal pressure, preventing the vessel from over-expanding. In the brain, we talk about external pressure protecting the brain. Well, we're really talking about cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF. You can think of your brain as an object kind of floating in a bath of clear fluid. And this fluid surrounds the brain and every single blood vessel inside your head. On the other side, you have your skull. This is a rigid, bony box. It doesn't expand, at least we hope not. And the volume inside of your skull is therefore fixed. If you try to cram more stuff or more anything into that box, the pressure of the fluid has to go up. So when you perform a Valsalva, the high pressure in your chest acts like a dam. It makes it harder for the blood to drain out of your head through your jugular veins. And this causes a momentary resistance to flow of the blood that's inside your skull. Because that fluid has nowhere to go, the pressure inside the skull, the intracranial pressure, goes up. Which gets passed on to the cerebrospinal fluid. Again, that's the fluid surrounding your brain and its blood vessels. And this is the pushback. You have blood pressure pushing out from the inside of the artery. But you have an equal spike in the fluid pressure pushing back from the outside. And the result, when it's measured, is that your cerebral perfusion pressure remains remarkably stable. With the Valsalva maneuver, which has been directly investigated. Also using some fancy technology called transcranial Doppler. This looks at blood flow. So researchers observed that cerebral blood flow is well maintained during the initial phases of a Valsalva maneuver. A significant drop in flow only occurs if the strain is held long enough to reach this late phase two. Effectively, you're holding a Valsalva maneuver for like 15 seconds, 20 seconds, something like that. Where cardiac output finally begins to fall. And this is really where we see some of that syncope risk start to come up. There is some nuance here when you release the air, particularly if it's done quickly. Intracranial pressure and intrathoracic pressure drop to zero or very low, almost instantly. And so there can be an overshoot, which Austin talked about earlier. Your systemic blood pressure stays high because the heart is suddenly pumping a huge volume of blood into the still constricted blood vessels. So you have this high internal pressure and low external support. Theoretically, that would be the highest risk of something bad happening because that transmural pressure could be higher. But again, where are the bodies? Austin, most people have seen the meme of you deadlifting with your eyes popping out. Can you explain this based on the mechanisms that we've talked about so far? Yeah, I mean, that's kind of the image that I had in my mind when you were describing increases in intracranial pressure. And obviously, it's very fortunate that we have this kind of balancing mechanism to maintain relatively stable cerebral perfusion pressure as a very important variable. That is basically a fancy physiologic term that describes the ability of blood flow to get into your brain and keep you awake and conscious. And this is why during those very high intensity efforts is not when we tend to see quite as much of the syncopal episodes and things like that. But also the eyes and everything, they are all kind of in very close neighborly proximity to these other structures. And pressure can get transmitted in all sorts of different ways. And so, yeah, I think that I might have a little bit of an above average tendency to have some of that proptosis as a way we can describe it. My eyes bulging out a little bit more when under that degree of pressure. And fortunately, they go back in afterwards. When I release things. I seem to recall an episode of you. I believe you were deadlifting, but you might have been squatting. I don't know if this is revisionist history. And you had contacts in. You actually like jettisoned a contact from your eyeball. Yeah, that's happened a handful of times actually over the years. And I remember one of my earlier powerlifting meets that I did. I think it was after the first time I moved to San Antonio for residency training now over a decade ago at this point that I actually did the whole meet wearing regular like eyeglasses instead of contacts. Because I was worried that in the middle of the meet I was going to pop a contact out. And that was in a powerlifting gym. Not going to be a contact that I chose to pick up off the ground and put back into my eyes. So I just wore eyeglasses for the whole meet. Would have been a great case study. You know, what weird infection do you get in your eyeball from? Polymicrobial is what I would say. A hundred percent. Yeah. So that's the sort of pressurized suit defense that we're going to keep referencing. But there's also some thought that doing the Valsalva is bad for your heart. Can't be good for you. You know, due to the increase in blood pressure that occurs with all exercise, but markedly with resistance training, and then it's even higher with the Valsalva maneuver. Perhaps this causes left ventricular hypertrophy or LVH. And that theoretically could be avoided if you didn't do the Valsalva maneuver when you lifted weights. So left ventricular hypertrophy is the thickening and stiffening of the heart's main pumping chamber, your left ventricle, which would reduce its efficiency and can lead to heart failure, arrhythmias, heart attack, or stroke. Now, the heart does change relatively quickly in response to training. That's been well characterized for years. However, historically, there's been some weird data around this. We covered this in our Extreme Exercise Hypothesis podcast. I think it was episode 215. I'll link that in the show notes. But there's this thought that the changes at the level of the heart were markedly different between endurance training and resistance training. Endurance training caused all four chambers of the heart to grow kind of equally. And resistance training only caused, you know, a handful of the chambers to get thicker, not necessarily grow in size. This eccentric versus concentric hypertrophy difference. Yeah, that was just based on faulty analyses and not as sophisticated imaging techniques. And so what we see now in high quality studies, they don't really support the idea that lifting alone causes this pathological thick-walled small chamber left ventricle or left ventricular hypertrophy that you see most commonly in folks with chronic undertreated or untreated hypertension. That's like the biggest risk factor here. And potentially heart failure from that. It's not from the Valsalva. It's not from resistance training. And it just seems to be an effect of taking anabolic steroids at high doses. So, Austin, we have extreme blood pressure numbers when lifting and using the Valsalva maneuver, but we don't have a trail of dead lifters. We also have good data that lifting heavy, which requires the use of a Valsalva maneuver, even if it's reflexive, we have good data that that reduces resting blood pressure, which suggests against some sort of mechanism of developing left ventricular hypertrophy. And we also know that the body's vascular system is highly adaptable, like other biological systems. So if you were having a peer-to-peer conversation with another physician who thought the Valsalva maneuver was dangerous during exercise and was telling their patients as much, how would you approach that conversation? As I do with many conversations, try to figure out where their belief is coming from and assess their kind of epistemology around it. What's their level of confidence in that claim? And kind of what is it coming from? What are they most afraid of? Right. And then just kind of gently poke at that if there is a willingness to engage on the topic. I find it super plausible and reasonable to think that, you know, high intensity chronic resistance exercise versus cardiorespiratory aerobic endurance exercise will lead to divergent cardiovascular adaptations. And that is related to them having somewhat unique and divergent cardiovascular demands. Right. So that is very plausible to me. But as we've talked about before, one of our favorite phrases is it matters how you got there in the sense that somebody with chronic resting hypertension, pathologic hypertension by whatever, you know, underlying mechanism, the heart is having a very different experience in working against that chronic high resting blood pressure compared with somebody who might not have hypertension, who has a healthy resting blood pressure, or maybe who is even training as a part of a way to improve their resting blood pressure. Who lowers it yet is only having a handful of brief periodic increases fluctuations in their blood pressure during the course of routine resistance training. And then for the remaining 23 hours of the day and 365 days of the year, they are not experiencing that same level of thing. Those are different ways and different demands and different adaptations that should result. And so, yeah, I see a lot of heart failure that is related to pathological, you know, cardiac remodeling and things like that. I have seen precisely zero cases of somebody who squatted, bench pressed and deadlifted themselves into heart failure, you know, as an end state. So similar to the question of where the where the bodies. So I remain very open and actually in support of the idea that there are different adaptations that you can get from these things as a justification. In fact, in our mind to like people ought to do both. This is why we recommend both strength and conditioning. If health is the primary goal, right? It doesn't need to be all of one or all of the other. But if I was talking to a clinician who's deliberately telling people that the Valsalva maneuver is dangerous and they they should never do it, it's just like, what are you afraid of and what's it based on and how confident are you? Are you open to like reconsidering this and things like that? Because I think that your patients might do better if we can get them to do more things, some of which may actually involve doing this type of maneuver. Yeah. And you can slide into Austin's DMs if you are a health care professional and he will go through this with you. Probably not. But yeah, good luck. All right. Let's pivot here. After the break, we're going to come back and talk about special populations, specifically our individuals at an increased risk of stroke or a ruptured aneurysm. And what about individuals during pregnancy? Can they do the Valsalva maneuver? All that and more after the break. Quick break from our podcast because I want to mention today's sponsor, Caraway. Now, I've been going through the process of moving into a new house and I've been finding a lot of things that I'm ready to replace. And that includes stuff that I cook with in the kitchen. Enter Caraway. Caraway has gained a lot of traction for their non-toxic ceramic coating. From a materials perspective, these are designed to be third-party tested and manufactured without the use of forever chemicals like PFAS. Now, while the long-term clinical data on the cumulative exposure to some of these compounds is still an area of active research, many people, myself included, prefer to simply minimize exposure whenever possible. Beyond the chemistry, the actual utility is what stands out. I can confirm that the ceramic surface actually works. It makes the transition from cooking to cleaning significantly more efficient. And despite using it daily for the last few months, it shows no signs of wear. And oh yeah, it looks great too. They've recently expanded their line as well. They've released a new mechanical kitchen timer that's easy to use even if your hands are messy during food prep. They also launched the Bakeware Plus collection that uses the same specialty ceramic coating for easier food release and quick cleanup after you're done cooking. Over 100,000 people have rated Caraway Kitchens five stars. So if you're looking to upgrade your setup with equipment that matches a health-conscious lifestyle, Caraway's cookware set is a smart entry point. It can save you up to $190 versus buying the pieces individually. To get yours, visit CarawayHome.com slash BBM to take an additional 10% off your next purchase. This deal is exclusive to our listeners, so do use code BBM at checkout or go to CarawayHome.com slash BBM for non-toxic kitchenware made modern. Between moving into a new house, managing the business, and keeping up with my own training, my schedule is pretty much a disaster right now. For me, I realized that cooking healthy meals just wasn't going to happen when I found myself finishing a long day and realizing I still had an hour of prep and cleanup ahead of me. Look, you want to eat better, and when you have zero time and energy, Factor solves the problem. Two minutes, real food, and you're done. It's not that you're failing at healthy eating, you're just failing at having extra hours in the day. Factor makes it super easy. All of their meals are made by chefs and designed by dieticians, and then they're delivered right to your door. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats with no added sugars. I've been leaning on the Muscle Pro Collection as it fits my needs as someone doing a lot of training. They also have high-protein options, vegetarian options, and a ton of other different dietary patterns, too. Anyway, Slice It, all of their meals are fresh, never frozen, and the food is ready in minutes. It's super easy to stay on track. Factor. Head over to Factormeals.com slash BBM50OFF and use code BBM50OFF to get 50% off your first Factor box plus free breakfast for an entire year. The offer is only valid for new Factor customers with code and qualifying auto-renewing subscription purchase. Make healthier eating easier with Factor. That's Factormeals.com slash BBM50OFF. This podcast is brought to you by Biggs. At Barbell Medicine, we spend a lot of time talking about what it takes to build a body that can handle high-level performance, but the recovery and health side is just as critical. Over the last six years, an incredible team of healthcare professionals did something that most people thought was impossible. They helped rebuild the body of legendary Olympian Lindsey Vonn after a series of devastating injuries. And now, she's actually headed back to the 2026 Winter Games in Milan, and she's ready to break records once again. This February, Lindsey's team and the entire USA medical team will be wearing FIGS, and you can rock their official uniform, too. The new Team USA collection from FIGS is engineered with Fiber X. It's their most durable fabric yet. It really is setting a new gold standard for high-level performance scrub wear because it's lightweight, it's breathable, and it's ultra-resilient for those long shifts. And of course, the style comes in red, white, and blue. Now, if you want the gear that the medical team behind the world's best athletes are wearing, check out the limited edition Team USA collection. You get 15% off your first order at wearfigs.com with code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com, code FIGSRX. We talk a lot about efficiency and high-yield results in training, and your wardrobe should follow the same logic. A well-built wardrobe is about pieces that work together and hold up over time, and that's what Quince does best. Premium materials, thoughtful design, and everyday staples that feel easy to wear and easy to rely on, even as the weather changes. Quince has everyday essentials I love with quality that lasts, from organic cotton sweaters and polos for every occasion to lighter jackets for the changing seasons. The secret is that they work directly with top factories and cut out the middlemen, so you're not paying for a massive brand markup. You're just getting quality clothing, and everything is built to hold up to daily wear and still look good season after season. Plus, they only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. We've recently had some cooler weather in Southern California, so I've been rotating through a few of their cashmere sweaters and their jackets, if I'm going somewhere else besides the gym. They look great, and they've been holding up way better than others I've bought that cost way more, so for me, it's a no-brainer. Refresh your wardrobe with Quince. Go to quince.com slash BBM for free shipping on your order and 365-day returns. Now available in Canada, too. That's quince.com slash BBM. Free shipping and 365-day returns. quince.com slash BBM. All right, we're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We're talking about the Valsalva maneuver. Now, there's this concern that there's an increased risk of stroke and aneurysm when you do the Valsalva maneuver and you're lifting. These are major concerns in healthcare professionals and the public alike. We can think of a blood vessel like a high-pressure garden hose. In that context, an aneurysm is essentially like a blister or a thin spot in the wall of that hose. And over time, or due to genetics, that specific section of the wall becomes stretched out and weak. In the brain, these are often called berry aneurysms because they look like a small fruit hanging off the vessel. The fear is that with the Valsalva, if you suddenly crank the pressure up inside that hose to 400 millimeters of mercury, that thin, weak blister will finally give way and burst. This is the pop that everyone is afraid of. This is called a hemorrhagic stroke, where blood escapes the vessel and enters the brain tissue or the space surrounding it. It's a plumbing failure, where the pipe bursts under pressure. There's another type of stroke called an ischemic stroke, which is from a blockage. This is much more common in daily life. About 87% of strokes are ischemic. And this is where a clog or a piece of debris, like a plaque, breaks loose and blocks the flow of the blood to the brain. The concern here is that the turbulence of the breath hold and release might shake a piece of plaque loose. The link between Valsalva maneuver and stroke is largely based on theoretical speculation, mostly mechanistic type reasoning. When we look at actual outcomes, the incidence of cerebrovascular accidents in lifters is exceedingly low. Most evidence here comes from isolated case reports. And these almost exclusively involve people with undiagnosed vascular malformations like berry aneurysms. And again, we have that transmural protection. The fear of having a pop assumes that the high internal pressure against low external pressure. But in reality, the cerebrospinal fluid pressure rises nearly instantly to offset that internal spike in pressure. So, Austin, based on the available data regarding strokes occurring during exercise and maybe more generally, it seems like a focus on acute changes in blood pressure misses the forest for the trees. Instead, people should focus on chronic risk factors, right? I mean, if we look at the most compelling risk factor data for the incidence of stroke, chronic hypertension is number one, two, three, four, five on that list of risk factors as the thing that we need to spend the most time addressing. It's interesting, you know, for all the kind of biohacker optimization space and how much interest there is for them, for example, in like wearing continuous glucose monitors and minimizing glucose spikes, how wearing a continuous ambulatory blood pressure monitoring or something like that has not taken off in that space and keeping their blood pressure as low as possible for as long as possible. I think that people, you know, obviously there's the visual evidence when you're doing a hard Valsalva against a heavy load, like seeing the face, the contortions, the discomfort. I think people would be very surprised if they were to learn the degree of fluctuations that can be physiologic, normal or sometimes abnormal that they experience but never know about just in their day-to-day life. You know, blood pressure spike that happens while you are, maybe you're in traffic and you have a near miss or a near accident or somebody passes you and pisses you off while you're on the road or other forms of life stress, work stress, all sorts of other things. As you mentioned, when you're on the toilet, I just think that people would be surprised and to know that their blood pressure fluctuates minute to minute throughout the day a lot more than they probably think. And yet focusing on this as a unique risk factor, mainly based on fear and like facial evidence of strain, it is an interesting phenomenon. I understand how we got here. I understand how this happens, but recognizing like the bigger picture here of like chronic resting hypertension is the thing that we ought to spend probably the most time worrying about. The situations where these acute fluctuations become more concerning are the situations that we alluded to earlier where it's like you probably ought to be in an ICU and like impending surgery or something like that, right? And that's just so uncommon compared with the proportion of people out there who stand to benefit from doing these types of activities that, yep, it's going to require a bit of blood pressure increase if you want to support some exercise. And to whatever extent there may or may not be some risk associated with that, again, we're not seeing the trails of bodies. And instead, we see very ample evidence of benefit from people being able to participate in these things over long periods of time. Yeah. In fact, it'd be a huge red flag if you were to initiate exercise and your blood pressure couldn't go up. You know, like same thing as if your heart rate can't go up. We, you know, this sort of relationship is a huge red flag in practice. So, yeah, again, I get why, how we got here and I get the theoretical concerns, but then immediately we should look at, all right, well, what is the outcome data? And it's like, oh, well, I guess I just have to reject that hypothesis. Perhaps it was incomplete logic. Yeah, I think that's the story on strokes and aneurysms. What about the pelvic floor? Get this thought out there that, look, if you do a valsal maneuver, particularly if you're a woman, well, that's going to cause stress urinary incontinence. You know, it's going to wreck your pelvic floor. Obviously, there's some stuff on social media. You can see this happening, right? Women who have leakage during a lift, usually a heavy lift for the most part. And usually that's co-occurring with those sort of distorted faces, as you were talking about. So there's just this assumption, all right, they're doing a valsalva, they're lifting heavy, stress urinary incontinence, it's all, it's causal, right? The rooster crow, sun comes up, rooster causes sun to grow, to come up. It's missing a few important things that happen. One is a reflexive co-activation. Pelvic floor muscles contract prior to and during the rise of intra-abdominal pressure. It's the sort of feed forward mechanism designed to counteract the downward force of the valsalva maneuver on the pelvic organs. There's also a weightlifter's paradox. Powerlifters, this has been studied, often have lower rates of incontinence than high impact athletes like gymnasts and runners, suggesting that the impact of landing or that sort of impulse is a bigger driver of dysfunction than the pressure of a three second brace. Um, also there's, you know, chronic straining when you're on the toilet, particularly for long durations, that's much more strongly linked with like something like a prolapse than, uh, intentional straining during a heavy squat. We don't really see pelvic organ prolapse there because the valsalva maneuver is wrecking your pelvic floor musculature. And also by the way, the pelvic floor is adaptable just like other muscle tissue, other tissues in the body. And it does adapt high intra-abdominal pressure is a stimulus for adaptation, not just, uh, a risk of breaking the floor. Um, again, we're not really like cars. We do adapt, uh, to what we're exposed to or not exposed to. There's no real evidence here of valsalva maneuver during exercise worsening pelvic floor dysfunction, but it may be provocative. And I think that's what people are mostly noticing. Um, individuals who are susceptible to whether it's stress and urinary incontinence or some sort of pelvic floor dysfunction that may crop up when they're lifting heavy. And again, since the valsalva maneuver is reflexive anyway, like this may all kind of go together in their sort of lived experience, but saying that it's causal and then further, you should avoid it. Again, I think that's really just incompatible with exercise. What do you think about that? Yeah, I think that's a fair take. This is fortunately, you know, something that, um, I think that is not something that I am encountering routinely in day-to-day medical practice. I think we probably encounter a bit more in like coaching practice, but there are folks who can, you know, help in these situations, whether through, uh, coaching kind of cues and, and, and programming methods with some, some deliberate guidance on that front, as well as things like pelvic floor physical therapy. Yep. Yep. We also have a podcast, um, that I will link in the show notes on stress urinary incontinence. You can hear that if you are so inclined. All right. This was my, the most fun part of the podcast for me when I was doing the research, because this is near and dear to my heart, not because I am an individual experiencing pregnancy, but just because I feel charged to take this up. Okay. Well, I think that, you know, pregnancy is one of those periods of time that women have the most interaction with healthcare professionals. Right. And so to me, there's like a lot of, um, you know, opportunity to do good there and exercise is underdosed, under delivered, underutilized in pregnancy. And I'm just like, why, you know, and I think it just comes back to fears surrounding many different aspects of exercise with respect to not only baby, but also mom. And that extends to the Valsalva maneuver. Look, there's going to be harm to baby by compromising blood flow. If you use the Valsalva maneuver, when you exercise during pregnancy, um, and if you combine that with the knowledge that this is really an unavoidable reflex at heavier loads, then if you were to attempt to avoid it, that might actually, uh, you know, decrease the utility or the efficacy of the training stimulus, which there are known benefits to exercise to mom and baby during exercise and known risks of insufficient activity. And so for people to avoid that, that would be problematic because we know exercise works better for health if it actually works to make you fitter. So when we look at actual evidence on things like uterine blood flow, for example, the maternal presser response, that's a fancy way of saying the rise in blood pressure during exercise actually helps maintain the pressure gradient needed to keep blood moving through the placenta. Um, there's actually a study monitoring, uh, individuals who are pregnant lifting up to 90% of their 10 rep max, um, using a Valsalva maneuver. There was no evidence of fetal distress, fetal heart rates stayed stable and umbilical blood flow metrics remain normal. Another study involving 48 pregnant athletes performing heavy barbell training like sumo deadlifts, uh, for example, at about 76% of their one rep max, there was only one transient case of fetal bradycardia, which is a reduction in heart rate, but it resolved quickly and did not meet clinical criteria of concern. Uh, the study concluded that heavy resistance training is generally well tolerated. Although this study did not explicitly record breathing techniques, the researchers noted that given the heavy loads, many participants likely use the Valsalva maneuver instinctively. And then there's survey data that indicates that women who maintained their high intensity training levels, including the use of the Valsalva maneuver until delivery. Well, they had reduced odds of pregnancy and delivery related complications compared to those who reduced their training intensity. This is all captured in ACOG by ACOG, the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology, who they moved away from like heart rate limits on exercise towards a RPE rate of perceived exertion. And they support strength training, although they don't explicitly say, and you can hold your breath when you do it. That would be the, that's their final form, right? I just think that the historical recommendation for pregnant individuals to avoid the Valsalva maneuver and straining, it's largely based on, again, vibes, theoretical concerns regarding uterine blood flow, pelvic floor integrity, fetal heart rate, stuff like that. The clinical data just doesn't seem to support that. Instead, current evidence seems to suggest that for healthy, uncomplicated pregnancies, brief bouts of increased intra-abdominal pressure during resistance training, during resistance training with the Valsalva maneuver is well tolerated and hasn't been shown to be the primary driver of dysfunction compared to the cumulative load of pregnancy and the mode of delivery, especially with respect to like the pelvic floor. Does that all make sense to you? Do you feel like I'm overselling this? I think you did a fine job putting that together. And I, and I think the wrong message to take away would be to say, ah, well, nothing about training fundamentally needs to change when somebody is proceeding through pregnancy. Of course, the nature of the training, the programming, perhaps the exercise selection, um, just based on how people feel, maybe the, you know, intensity, proximity to failure may need to change, but that's much more based on an individual level, not just based on the binary of pregnant versus non-pregnant. Um, the, you know, the, the training will necessarily need to evolve, but that's more with the person rather than just that binary of the pregnant state. Yeah. I think this goes back to just exercise prescription and kind of our view on this in general. It's, it's not that the person is pregnant that connotes, you know, necessitates a change prophylactically. It's like, okay, now they are preferring different exercises. These certain exercises are uncomfortable. They don't want to do whatever it's again, based on the individual, which is independent of pregnancy by and large, because this can happen outside of pregnancy, obviously. So if we were coming up with like a pregnancy template, like how would it look different than our, you know, beginner prescription, for example, or beginner template, it would just have more options. Probably, you know, that, that, that's what I'm thinking about. Just more options for people to pick and choose from, um, rather than like, you can't squat, you can't hold your breath, you can't lift. Yeah. And it's like, that doesn't seem to be an evidence-based position to hold. Yeah. Um, the last thing I wanted to talk about is, you know, for performance, it's a Barbell Medicine podcast. We've got to talk about lifting. So Austin, in your view, when you think about the Valsal maneuver, particularly doing an intentional Valsal maneuver, do you think there's like a performance benefit compared to just the reflexive, uh, component or reflexive part of a Valsal maneuver? I think so. I, you know, there's, I think ample just personal experience, our, our own experience as athletes, as lifters, as well as, as, as coaches that sometimes even just observing a lifter when they're moving through these exercises, particularly at higher intensities, there are times when we actually will coach or cue the way that they are bracing in a more deliberate fashion. If it was purely the reflex, then it would never be something that needs attention or coaching or cueing. You could just like trust that the reflex is going to do its thing and that it would always lead to kind of like a quote unquote optimal brace and maximum performance. But that doesn't actually seem to be the case. Yes, it is reflexive. It is automatic to some degree, but that doesn't mean that there isn't room for doing it in certain different ways that might lead to better or worse performance outcomes. And so that's something that we've own probably experimented with our own bracing strategy, coaching other people. Sometimes we watch people and it's like, oh, when they brace, it seems like they look like they're like holding all this pressure in their face instead of in their thorax or their trunk or their abdomen. And it's like, and it's also subtly different compared with how you might do a Valsalva to like have a bowel movement. Like that's not actually what you want to be doing when you're trying to lift a heavy load, the nature of the brace and kind of like, I know this is going to be anatomic heresy, but it's kind of like where in your body you feel it is a little bit different when you're doing it for a heavy lift compared with a bowel movement, compared with delivering a baby, compared with a sneeze, compared with a cough. You know, these things are subtly different and sometimes require some degree of like volitional or conscious kind of cueing, coaching modification. Yeah. Yeah. I don't view this like, oh, we got to fix your brace or we got to, you know, optimize your Valsalva maneuver to be like the key to unlocking somebody's performance. But I do think there's an efficiency bump that's possible there, especially if someone is doing it like really wrong, you know, or really in an inefficient manner. It's just an opportunity for improved performance. Yep. Agree. All right. Perhaps a more medically interesting part of this podcast for you, Dr. Baraki. The contraindications to the Valsalva maneuver. Can you imagine if I just put 60 seconds on the clock, what are all the absolute contraindications to Valsalva maneuvers? Let's see how many of them I got, and then you can see if there's any more. Most medical contraindications for the Valsalva maneuver are rooted in mechanistic theory, the fear of the spike in pressure, rather than actual clinical outcome data. And so absolute contraindications are rare. They almost exclusively involve short-term unstable conditions where a sudden pressure spike or the overshoot at the end of a Valsalva maneuver poses an immediate threat to some sort of compromised anatomical structure, for example. So these would be things like an aortic aneurysm or dissection that is like large or newly discovered, typically greater than like five centimeters, for example. I think, again, at that point, if you've been recently diagnosed with that, again, unlikely you're just casually going to the gym and wondering, should I do a Valsalva or not? I think about if there are times where an acute intracranial pressure spike is contraindicated. So recent head injury, recent neurosurgery, symptomatic brain masses. In these cases, the pushback from the cerebrospinal fluid might actually lead to like herniation theoretically of the brain. That'd be unusual. I'd look for case reports, did not find any, fortunately. So that is a fear I no longer have to think about for me. If somebody had recent like ocular surgery or retinal detachment, it's another sort of theoretical risk, especially in the early preoperative phase, like after cataract surgery, could disrupt delicate sutures or compromise the healing after an acute cardiovascular event. So like right after a heart attack or during unstable angina chest pain before that has been stabilized or and or revascularized in the case of a heart attack. I think, though, in most of these cases, you can correct me if I'm wrong, exercise would be restricted anyway. So it's not like people like, hey, look, you can do any exercise you want, but just don't do a Valsalva maneuver. Yeah, you got this huge aortic aneurysm just hanging out like carry on. Yeah, I think that that's generally the case. I think the gray areas here involve not so much the acute things, but when there is a clear risk factor that has been identified for one of these things. So what if somebody has an established diagnosis of an aortic aneurysm that maybe doesn't meet immediate surgical criteria? What do you do in that situation? And I got to tell you, I don't have an answer. You know, I don't think that many of us do. And so many people will err certainly on what they perceive to be a more cautious side. I've had patients, for example, who had a known aortic aneurysm, didn't need immediate or urgent surgery. And yet they were like, well, I really like training for powerlifting and setting one rep max PRs. Would it be better if I trained for, you know, sets of 10 instead? And I'm like, maybe. You know, it might make you feel better. I don't know how much of a quantitative difference in risk there might be. There's also the question of like, well, what's our proximity to failure here? Does that play a role? Maybe. I also don't have evidence on this stuff. So, you know, I wish I had all the answers and I wish I had strong evidence to base this on, but we just don't really have that. And so it seems plausible to me that maybe there is some spectrum or gradation in risk. And sometimes I try to put myself in that situation and imagine like if I were diagnosed with this aneurysm, how might I go about training if I really, really wanted to? And it can still be a hard question to answer because I'm still imposing some of my own, you know, conscious, unconscious biases and preferences on it that may not be applicable to another person. So there are certainly gray areas where people may have to, you know, deal with advice that they don't like and decide what they want to do with it in their own kind of individual risk calculation to the extent that can even be calculated. Yeah, that's the whole thing. It's like, seems like a lot of unknown risk, but these acute settings are probably, to your point, maybe not the major sort of talking point. Rather, it's like if someone has got stable coronary artery disease, so some long lasting stuff, is it okay for them to do a Valsava maneuver? Like we know we have data, ultrasound related data showing that, oh, look, the pressure gradient across the wall of the heart actually is either stabilized or goes down when people do the Valsava and they're lifting heavy weights. And also the new American Heart Association guidelines on resistance training don't mention anything about avoiding the Valsava maneuver. And so it's like, should we encourage the Valsava maneuver? Should we just take it on a case by case basis? And then if so, what are our recommendations? They're just vibes based? I don't know. Yeah. Stable coronary artery disease does not really get me terribly worked up here. Now, if somebody has anginal symptoms with it, like chest pain with exertion that reliably gets better with rest, there's going to necessarily be some exercise modifications that get put into place there. But we also see evidence that there is still adaptive capacity. So for example, when patients who have limb claudication, meaning they get like pain in their legs when they walk because of problem blockages in blood flow, when you put them on like high intensity walking programs and things like that, they actually tend to improve their walking distance and their capacity and pain goes down. And that's probably a result of like kind of subacute to chronic kind of revascularization, neovascularization that happens, collateral blood flow, various other things that can happen in the adaptive process. So yeah, this, you know, stable, stable atherosclerosis is something that is also massively prevalent and often undiagnosed in many people. Like tons of people out there have it and are just like going about their life and even exercising, lifting weights, doing all sorts of things. Um, and there's a big spectrum in what's, you know, coronary disease, uh, means and atherosclerosis, big spectrum of, of what that is. But, you know, stable disease gets me much less concerned, uh, in that context, especially if the person has no symptoms. Yeah. There's also this thought, uh, you got to avoid the Valsal maneuver if, uh, you're at risk or you have an inguinal or abdominal hernia. You can't strain, you know that, uh, except for hernias are usually the result of like chronic pressure, um, and genetics, not like a three second brace underneath. The squat, uh, for example, or deadlift, although it certainly can be provocative, but again, it wasn't really the cause. It was just like the, the, you know, the straw that broke the camel's back, uh, for example. Um, I think in these cases though, I wouldn't necessarily ban lifting. That'd be very challenging for me to say you can't lift, right? You can otherwise live your life, but you can't lift. That'd be challenging. I don't know that I would also ban the Valsal maneuver again, at least the reflexive components of it. I can probably figure out a program where somebody be unlikely to do much in the way of reflexive Valsalva-ing, but I don't know that I could create an effective exercise program where it's completely eliminated. It's just like the nature of exercise requires you to transmit force in a somewhat efficient manner. And if it gets hard enough to work, you're going to probably do some Valsalva-ing, um, whether that's intentional or not. Yeah. Agree. Are there any other cases where you think that exercise, it's not restricted, you can do whatever you want, but you have to, you can't do a Valsalva. Yeah, it's a tough one. You know, the way that I tend to organize things is by organ system. If I really wanted to go through, we've talked a lot about like brain central nervous system stuff. One area we didn't talk a ton about is like the, the ear and vestibular system. And so there are sometimes, um, things relating to the vestibular system in the inner ear, like semicircular canal disease, dehiscence, certain other conditions where it's like, there can certainly be like some pressure impacts there, um, that may impact recommendations around Valsalvas if, particularly if it tends to be provocative of symptoms, but that's not subtle. Like somebody would know if doing a Valsalva, like sends them into a fit of vertigo, for example. That's what I'm saying. Like not terribly subtle. We talked a lot about if they have active vertigo. Yeah. We talked a lot about the cardiovascular system, the heart, the aorta, the valves, the coronaries, uh, with respect to the lungs, um, you know, I can envision scenarios, maybe if somebody is at uniquely high risk of pneumothorax, or if they're recovering from a pneumothorax where pressure changes can be a potentially problematic that might impact recommendations. And then beyond that, uh, you touched on the, the hernia question, but really outside of that, there's not a ton more like below the diaphragm that would get me super concerned. We've talked a little bit about organ prolapse, whether, uh, you know, pelvic organ prolapse in women, or if somebody is prone for whatever reason to like rectal prolapse and things like that, that's something that generally people are going to want to get fixed, um, you know, before they move on with the rest of their life, uh, doing these things. So those are just some of the other things that we hadn't touched on that, that kind of came across my mind that I might be, you know, discussing with a patient if there may be some relationship, but again, not subtle things that they probably would identify before I did. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. All right. Well, look, we spent the episode debunking gym folklore and talking about the protective pressurized suit. Now, how do we actually apply this for the person under the bar or the clinician in the office? Once again, we go back to one of our age old sayings, the body isn't fragile. There's multiple redundant adaptable mechanisms in place to not only tolerate the Valsava, but also make it more efficient. And for healthy populations, I think we both agree that the Valsava maneuver is a safe and in some cases necessary tool to exercise. So for the trainee, we would say treat bracing as a skill. So don't wait for the reflexive Valsava maneuver to kick in, but learn to consciously brace before the rep starts, usually during the unrack period, to create a stable platform for force production and force transfer. Beginners should learn the intentional Valsava maneuver early. This ensures they have the skill ready as the weights increase rather than being surprised later on. I would say the duration should be controlled. So you're not doing a Valsava maneuver for, you know, five seconds, seven seconds, 10 seconds at a time prevents the significant drop in cardiac output that occurs with prolonged Valsava maneuvers. Also would avoid hyperventilating before a lift. Generally unhelpful. Yeah. Yeah. If you want to psych yourself up, just make sure that you're breathing. Okay. And then if you regularly experience lightheadedness after a rep, that's something that happens to you. You feel like I'm talking about you right now. You can hiss on the way out to let your air out. That can be useful, particularly after a rep. For the clinician, I think we would both agree that reassurance about for worried patients, you know, suggesting you perform reflexive mini Valsavas daily when you cough, when you sneeze, when you stand up from a low chair, the system is designed for this. So for a patient that's worried about the Valsava maneuver, overly concerned, some reassurance is usually useful here. Would also focus on chronic changes in something like blood pressure, not acute changes. If somebody were to come into your office and say, look, Austin, I want to exercise. I hear all your stuff. I should exercise. But look, this blood pressure thing freaks me out. You're telling me that my blood pressure can get into the 300s. If I do a leg press or in the 200s, I'm doing a one arm biceps curl. I think you would just focus on the chronic changes to their blood pressure rather than what's happening during exercise. It matters more what happens during the other 23 hours of the day than the one hour per day that you lift weights. And again, that sort of safety valve strategy. If people are at high risk for some sort of unwanted event from a Valsava or perhaps a syncopal event passing out afterwards, or for people that are apprehensive, this active exhalation or hiss during the concentric phase can be useful. So actively cueing a grunt can also work for folks if they can't quite get the hiss or the active exhalation. But again, the Valsava is going to happen regardless. The point is, are you going to dump the air immediately right afterwards? Do you need to have a slower release or something of that nature? And then you want to get the most out of it by doing an intentional one. And lastly, for individuals experiencing pregnancy, look, without contraindication, you should be exercising at sufficient intensity, sufficient dose of exercise to see improvements in fitness, strength, cardiovascular fitness, et cetera. And the Valsava maneuver is going to be part of that. It's reflexive. Um, you may experience, uh, some discomfort with the Valsava as fetal size increases. So again, transitioning to this hiss, uh, during the, either the concentric phase or during the end, near the end of the rep can, um, uh, improve that, uh, for folks who are training and experiencing discomfort due to the size of the fetus as it increases during pregnancy. But the reality is there's no statistical evidence that Valsava in during resistance training is more dangerous for vascular health, uh, than when it's performed reflexively in daily life. The pressurized suit logic holds up. The internal spike is matched by the external cradle of support. So for the healthy individual, the Valsava is a performance enhancing reflex that protects the spine, the vascular system, and the brain simultaneously. For the clinician, the goal should be to empower the individual over avoiding the Valsava. Teach patients to manage the pressure rather than fear it. Austin, any closing notes on the Valsava maneuver? Reasonable take. And if people are, uh, concerned about a particular medical condition that they have, uh, for example, among that long list of potential contraindications that we talked about earlier, that's where just super individualized, um, advice might need to come into play. Even if we recognize that some of that advice is not based on super compelling, super strong evidence. It might be based on your personal risk tolerance or lack thereof. And that's okay too. You get to make these choices. Yep. Yeah. Well said. All right. Well, that is a wrap on the Valsava maneuver with barbell medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me on the podcast. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. Again, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Bye.