 and alfalfa. The business of living forever has become $100 billion a year industry. We're currently seeing a flood of longevity startups selling the promise of a turnback clock, marketing DNA methylation tests, and high-tech cancer screens as the ultimate insurance policy for your future. But for many, these expensive metrics are a poor proxy for the actual physiology that dictates how you age. A molecular clock is silent on the loss of motor units and the creeping anabolic resistance that eventually makes the difference between an independent life and a nursing home. Similarly, the new wave of multi-cancer early detection tests promises a one-and-done solution to oncology. Yet, when you look at the actual clinical utility, these screens frequently miss the very early stage pathologies that we are most equipped to treat, while the pulse alarms leave healthy patients trapped in a diagnostic loop. Optimization isn't found in a descriptive score or an expensive gadget. It requires a prescriptive, treat-to-target strategy that hits hard clinical benchmarks for cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular power, all while navigating the complex reality of GLP-1s, hormone replacement therapy, and behavioral interventions that really do optimize health. In this episode, we're moving past the marketing to establish a concrete evidence-based framework for longevity as it sits today. And to help us dissect the latest in longevity, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing all right. And I believe you've pointed this out before, but I appreciate your pronunciation of dissect instead of dissect. I just, you know, I still have PTSD from when I was getting my masters in anatomy. I just, it was a bad day. I mean, any day, really, a bad day at that point. All right. Well, look, we got a lot to get into today. So let's start out with the biological age, probably one of your favorite tests, if I had to guess. It was one of your favorite medical metrics. So we've all seen the 60-year-old who is healthy, super active and outlifts people half their age, I aspire to be that person. But we've also seen the 40-year-old who seems to be falling apart. Chronological age is getting a lot of hate as a blunt instrument that fails to account for how fast your internal machinery is actually wearing out. And Skaap has created a massive market for new metric, biological age, and there's a test for it. Austin, now, when you're looking at a patient, do you take note of how they actually appear compared to their age on their chart? And if so, how do you interpret that? Yeah, I think it's something that a lot of people intuitively notice just in society, right? Or looking at celebrities, for example, like during the amusingly during the recent Super Bowl halftime show, I think people were surprised to see what Ricky Martin looked like when he came out on stage. So it's kind of like this common intuitive thing that people observe of how do people look compared with what I might expect for someone in that demographic. In the medical setting, it can often be even more striking. And it is immediately, you know, I do what's called the eyeball test when I walk into a hospital room or an ER room. And sometimes, you know, I will already have some background demographic information on the person. And I know might know that they are 40 or 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 or, you know, upwards of whoever the oldest patient I ever had was well into their hundreds. And that immediate person that you are faced with, whether they're it is concordant with my expectations or discordant with my expectations. And then the more discordant with my expectations, it almost now subconsciously informs how do I feel about this person's like, we're level of risk, how likely are they to have a good outcome, a bad outcome. When I see somebody who's in their 30s and four or 40s or 50s who looks decades older, whether from smoking or sometimes, unfortunately, alcohol use or or even other, you know, medical comorbidities, certain types of, you know, cancers and auto immune conditions that have ravaged their body in various degrees. That makes me feel not as optimistic for them in many situations. And then certainly at the other end of the spectrum, if I'm seeing a 60 or 70 or 80 year old who looks half their age, then I feel much more optimistic that I'm likely to be able to get them through whatever they're going through, or they may not need not need even need to be admitted to the hospital at all. So pretty informative. And I think there's data on this, in terms of like physicians intuitions around this, as well as like, if you just ask a doctor, like, would you be shocked if this person died in the next year? And if they say, no, I wouldn't be shocked, it's like that person's risk is like markedly higher. So even though we can't predict timelines with great, you know, accuracy, that gut sense that we accumulate over time actually is like, we're reasonable heuristic here. Yeah, yeah, it's kind of like a vibe check. But yeah, just takes into account a lot of factors that you could probably articulate like you just did. And then other things that are just more subconscious and you're kind of confabulating a reason you're like, I don't know, man, I just look at this person, I think this, yeah, which brings us to kind of this test of your biological clock, right? We all know that the chronological age is basically just a kind of birthdays. And so this biological clock is supposed to be different in that it accounts for what's going on inside or under the hood. Now really, what they're doing is measuring what's known as DNA methylation. You can think of your DNA as a massive library of instructions. And as you age, your body adds these small kind of chemical tags that we call methyl groups, they put them on specific locations around the DNA. Now these tags don't actually change your genetic code, but they act as like a post-it note telling the cell whether to read a certain page or to skip it. These are necessary for normal development and improper methylation is linked to diseases such as cancer and forms of neurodegenerative disease. These tags change throughout life in response to environmental factors, diet, lifestyle, etc. and can make them a key marker of quote, biological aging. Now researchers can look for specific DNA methylation footprints that are highly correlated with the variables that they're looking for. So things like age, straight up just chronological age, but also things like high blood pressure, VO2 max, all sorts of stuff. And then they basically build an algorithm around it using some machine learning. There are multiple generations of these biological tests. So the first one, the first generation basically thought straight up chronology. It's an algorithm built from the DNA of known ages. So like, I think it's 20 to 100. So you can think of this as like an odometer. There's like a Horvath biological age. I think there's a Hanum biological age that would be these first generation ones. Again, it's all DNA methylation, but it's mostly based on just how old are these genes basically. The second generation, this is an algorithm that's built on mortality data related to DNA markers of various plasma proteins like creatinine, for example. You can think of this as like a check engine light, risk of death. So grim age, which great name, by the way, for the second generation biological clocks. But again, still DNA methylation, just different sites, different footprints and the data that they fed into the machine learning is based on mortality data, not just age. And then there's a third generation, still DNA methylation, but now for specific physiological variables like VO2 max, blood pressure, etc. And this is instead of it being just your chronological age or your risk of death, it's more of like the pace of aging, like a speedometer, if you will. And the most famous one is out of this New Zealand cohort from a city called Dundun. So there's decent data here, both on the second generation and the third generation ones. So the second generation clocks like the grim age have demonstrated a legit ability to predict time to death and chronic disease onset more accurately than a birth certificate. The third generation, once the Dundun pace, for example, showed that people aging faster had greater declines in physical and cognitive function years before the disease appeared, making it a potential sort of early warning system. The second gen is probably still the best for predicting risk of disease and death. However, there's more data here and specifically data that's been adjusted for factors like smoking, BMI and existing chronic diseases. And so for every five year increase in this grim age score, the risk of all cause death increased by 44%, the risk of cardiovascular death increased by 33%, and the risk of non-cardiovascular death, so things like cancer, respiratory disease increased by 54%. But for many, this single composite score, this biological age could act as like a psychological lever for behavior change in a way that looking at a dozen separate lab values cannot. But from a clinical perspective, does a grim age score actually tell you anything that a standard blood pressure cuff or a lab for Apolypoprotein B doesn't already show you? Well, I mean, I would have to admit that grim age, these scores are not something that have been widely adopted into regular clinical practice. This isn't something that my EMR automatically displays for me in practice. So this isn't actually a metric that is in regular clinical use. However, I would see a scenario where these things could tell you things that a standard blood pressure wouldn't in fact tell you. And part of that is that they are incorporating a whole bunch of different data points and using that as you said, this kind of like background data almost like an actuary has put all this stuff together based on the machine learning aspect, compared with either an isolated data point like a blood pressure measurement, which as we've talked about is deeply flawed because it is a single snapshot of your blood pressure right now, or an ApoB measurement, for example, is a single snapshot measurement right now. And it is only really pertinent to one kind of a health-related outcome that we care about, not entirely, but we'll make that oversimplification. And so as from the clinician side, your job, at least prior to the use of these types of tools would be, you have to be that integrator. You have to have the background knowledge. You have to be able to do some sort of like either vibes-based or if you actually did mathematically, appropriately weighting each of these individual variables. That's a lot of hard work and it requires a lot of experience to be able to do if you're just going to go based on your gut sense. Right? A lot of very experienced clinicians, like I described, where I can go into a hospital room and I can kind of give you my spidey sense of like, how sick is this person? How likely are they to die? That's not something that you come out of medical school knowing how to do. Nor would I expect any regular clinician graduating from their whatever schooling that they have gone through. You could even give them an array of these data points and you could say, give me a probability of this disease or death in this person. I bet they would be abysmal at it. And so to the extent that we might have tools that are being developed like this based on data of, sorry, population-level data that is reflective of the population that you're looking at in front of you, like in the clinic room or in the hospital room, I could totally see a scenario where these tools are more useful than just the individual data points in isolation. The individual data points are going to be most useful for making individual patient-level clinical decisions day to day, whereas these kind of integrated cumulative scores can give you that overall vibes-based assessment of the patient. Yeah. Yeah, I think what you're getting at is that this is like, enriches your previous data set. Like, if you know somebody's blood pressure, their cholesterol panel, all these sorts of things, their recent clinical history or whatever, and then you have this in addition to it, it's giving you enriched data, right? Compared to just having this and being like, so what do, Doc? And you're like, don't know. I can't treat that integrated number. I can treat the sub-data points, but how aggressively should I treat them? Maybe that data, the integration informs my pre-test probability of how likely are you to die and how aggressive should I be in your situation. Yeah. No, you stole my thunder because I think when it comes to a use case here, you start thinking about like, yeah, how would somebody use this? And it would be like in an indeterminate range or for example, somebody who looks really, really healthy on paper with what you've tested so far and then they randomly got this or decided to get this and then it was discordant and you're like, hmm, interesting. So perhaps you would go, work that out further, but we'll get to that in a second. I think the biggest thing to clarify here, though, is that there's this massive difference between a descriptive metric like this and a prescriptive one. So these clocks can tell you like that you're aging, but they don't really tell you why or how to fix it. There's no threshold. If your score is X on this clock, do Y and monitor Z, for example. And you compare that to the prevent cardiovascular disease risk calculator and you know the variables that go in there and you know, okay, if we modify these, here's the predicted outcome and here's how to modify these specifically. So the other part here is that when you kind of dive a little deeper into the models being used to train these biological clocks in the validation studies, they show that traditional clinical markers, something like a systolic blood pressure, that's the top number, accounts for up to two-thirds of the variance in these age models, which is not unexpected, but it's just also like, yeah, the basics still matter here. And I think my biggest takeaway is that if you find that your biological age is elevated, it's more of like a lagging indicator. Like it's not like a maybe prospective sort of thing really. So like the blood pressure has been elevated for a while or you've had poor cardiovascular fitness or your Apolypropyrotine B has been high. Yeah, that's already been happening in the background and this kind of is a confirmatory test rather than like, you're at risk for developing these things so much. And also they still haven't incorporated any sort of functional stuff like EO2 max is included in the Dundun pace one, but there's not like anything for sarcopenia just yet, which would be maybe more interesting because again, our current like screening tests for sarcopenia mostly identify people who have it already and you're like, we wish we could have caught this earlier when it was maybe easier to intervene. So yeah, I think the major issues we have, you know, clear guidelines for like existing clinical markers, mostly speaking, you know, things like LDL, things like Apolypropyrotine B blood pressure, blood sugar, whatever, don't really have that here. So that's like issue number one. Issue number two is like the retest reliability. You could do the same biological age sort of test in the same week and get massively different results, which is also problematic. So yeah, maybe more of like a risk enhancer for somebody who already has all of their traditional risk factors known and accounted for. They're still curious and they got some money. These are like $200 to $500 tests, generally speaking. And so if you check all those boxes and you're like, yeah, I'm more curious, this could be useful. And I think ultimately what that would result in is potentially a motivation like a lever for behavior change and then from a medical standpoint, like further work up, you know, if you see somebody who's got, again, most of the traditional risk factors have already been tested for identified or whatever and you're like, only your risk for heart disease as it turns out, maybe we do go down the road of advanced imaging or something like that or additional testing or even like empirically start some things that would theoretically lower your risk. I don't know. Is that how you think about this? Yeah, I think it's an interesting area. I would have to play around with it to see like when faced with these data, do I feel or notice or observe myself doing anything differently? And so that's kind of where I would like to go. I'm open to it, but you're right. I think that this falls more still in the realm of like, quote, unquote, the optimizers, the health maxers as you described them, compared with those who are kind of going through a more traditional route. And so the impact would kind of remain to be seen because there's even debates, for example, of like, if you look at non HDL cholesterol as your traditional marker, how much more does APO be really at on top of a non HDL? And it's like, it's a modest amount. It's non zero, but it is admittedly a modest amount. And you can probably get most of the risk information that you want out of a non HDL cholesterol outside of some certain edge situations. And so this might be a similar situation where if you integrate or you're addressing all of your traditional risk factors, how much more do these biological age kind of metrics add maybe a modest amount and different people will put different values on that. And some people might be worth it to them, other people not so. Yeah, I just imagined somebody coming to you and saying, look, my grim age score is X. And you're like, great, what's your blood pressure? And I'm like, I don't know, man. Yeah, hope not. Yeah. All right. So ultimately, I think we can summarize that biological age is a high tech way of summarizing the effects of your environment and habits on your physiology. But it's probably much more productive to focus on the variables we know how to measure and manage for health, starting with your blood pressure, cholesterol, and maybe even your deadlift. But what happens when things start to go wrong, despite our best efforts? So we're going to enter the controversial world of early detection tests for cancer, and whether screens like gallery or hymns, they're recently offering are actually worth the investment for the average adult. So we've talked at length about the limitations of the current medical system, you know, it's reactive rather than proactive. And nowhere is this more apparent than in oncology, where we wait for a palpable lump or a change in bowel habits to go look for trouble. By then the horse is often out of the barn. But now there are advancements in these multi cancer early detection tests and their commercial interests to flip the script. The question is whether or not the technology has caught up to the marketing, or if we're just creating a new generation of the worried well through over diagnosis and over testing. Austin, have you ever gotten a patient who's done one of these tests and been referred to you? I have had patients who have done this type of testing. I don't I'm not can't say for sure whether they've used these specific ones, nor what I want to name them in particular. But yes, I've had certainly had patients who were into this kind of total full body like MRI scans and other forms of supposedly early cancer detection tests. It's been it's often a sign of a challenging conversation that is to come with. Yeah, harbinger sort of speed, you're like, Hey, I got this done. What do we do about it? And you're like, Yeah, okay. Yeah. So there's some look this these could be good. The traditional screening model is siloed. You know, we got a test for the breast, a test for the colon, a test for the prostate. If you got a lethal cancer somewhere else, like the pancreas liver ovaries, you're essentially flying blind until symptoms show up. So these early detection tests for multiple different cancers, specifically the gallery test that's now available through their HIMS partnership, use a single blood draw to look for cell free DNA methylation patterns back to the DNA methylation again, again, it's like a molecular fingerprint that the cancer cells leak into the bloodstream. The appeal is that it's a one and done approach instead of five different appointments and invasive procedures, potentially you get a single report covering dozens of different cancer types. And so if you're a high risk patient, the idea of finding it early is this powerful psychological and clinical tool for you. If you can catch a stage one pancreatic tumor, the five year survival rate changes from a death sentence to a manageable often curable surgical case. So it does sound like a total game changer, but medicine is littered with ideas that had flawless mechanistic logic but failed to improve actual human life, specifically lifespan. Austin, you spent a ton of time looking at debating, discussing screening tests, especially at the level of the population. Where is this like find it early logic led us to a dead end before? Yeah, lots of places. And I wouldn't say that I'm like an absolute rigid thinker around screening. I think that there are reasonable basic principles that should be kind of respected when it comes to selecting a reasonable screening test. And we've talked about these on prior podcasts a bunch. Ideally, it should be a prevalent health problem. It should be something that actually has a accurate and reliable and cost effective test for it. And it should be something that has an asymptomatic latent phase, meaning a period of time when there are no symptoms that would lead to diagnostic testing, during which period you could catch it. And there should be a treatment available that when offered earlier compared with later substantially improves the trajectory of that disease or the person's morbidity and mortality. If all of those criteria are met, you can make a reasonable case for screening for a lot of things. Now, there are many medical conditions out there that will fail one or more of these things. It might be an ultra ultra rare disease that it's not worth screening the whole population for. It might be a condition that actually doesn't have a long asymptomatic latent phase, but rather it will manifest abruptly all of a sudden. It doesn't make sense to screen people for stroke because that is an acute condition, for example, even though there might be other things that you could screen that would increase the risk of it in advance. There are conditions that for which there is no effective treatment, which raises questions about, well, what do we do if we screen and you screen positive for that type of condition. And each of the other criteria has examples. There are also different types of diseases. I remember, I think it was a text by Gilbert Welch called Overdiagnosed that I read years ago. And in it, I don't know if it was his metaphor, if he had borrowed it from someone else, but they described a few different types of diseases. Basically, if you imagine throwing the barn door open and there's like an eagle that like flies out of the barn super quickly, that's like a super rapid, fast, aggressive disease that's going to kill you no matter what. So if you catch it, unfortunately, it's already too late. And those are not useful to screen for. On the other hand, there's the snails that are moving so slow that whether you catch it early or later, it doesn't matter because it's such a slow, indolent disease that you are more likely to die of something else before this disease ever gets you. And then there's the medium speed ones. I don't know what animal you want to choose to demonstrate that type of disease process that proceeds at a pace where you actually have an opportunity to catch it early and substantially modify the trajectory. Those are the ones that are worth screening for. And so that's another way lens through which to view this. And then lastly, what I will mention is that even for a given disease that might meet all these criteria, the value of screening for it might diminish or change over time as treatment improves. So the better and better we get at treating a condition, the less and less value you will see from screening in terms of preventing, say, premature death or disease or complications. This isn't to dismiss because some people might say, oh, so you'd rather just people get the disease and have to treat it compared to preventing it. It's like, well, no, that's not what I would prefer. But if you were looking at screening tests through the lens of like, does this prevent people from dying, the better we get at treating things, the less beneficial you are going to see those screening tests appear, right? A good example of this, maybe a little out of ordinary, is like, how good we have gotten at treating what's called acute coronary syndromes or like heart attacks. We are much, much better at treating the acute heart attacks. And so now people are dying way less often of those. And they live with chronic heart disease for much, much longer. Other examples of conditions where screening has kind of led us astray is, you know, serologic or blood-based tests for ovarian cancer, certain tumor markers, others that have been controversial over the years. And I've even gone back and forth on this a little bit, depending on the state of technology is prostate cancer screening. Lung cancer screening is very tricky and many others. So this is a complex world for those who are either maybe new to our podcast and our audience. We have had several topics where we have covered screening in the past and would direct you to some of that prior content. And then if you are interested in more, then let us know. I'm happy to ramble about this all the time. It's an interesting field. Yeah. Yeah, you raised some interesting questions. So we need to look at, well, are these tests good enough? We need to look at the diagnostic yield. And let's start with the Pathfinder study. It's a landmark study in the space. It basically showed the limitations of these multi-cancer early detection tests. In a group of over 6,600 people, the test signaled cancer in 92 individuals, but only 35 of those were actually confirmed to have cancer. Now, that gives us a positive predictive value of only 38%. Now, the specificity of the test is marketed as an incredible 99.6%. And a high specificity test means that if you don't have cancer, the test is almost certainly going to return a negative result. But if you do have cancer, it should be positive. It's basically designed to minimize false alarms in healthy people. However, the clinical utility is limited by the sensitivity, which is the test's ability to actually find the cancer when it's present. At stage one, the sensitivity is only 16.8%. That means that for every 100 people with early stage cancer, the test misses 83 of them. Now, by the time you reach stage four, the sensitivity jumps to over 90%, which creates a fundamental paradox in screening. The test is most accurate when the cancer is already advanced and treatment options are limited, but it's least effective at stage one, where medical intervention could theoretically have the highest impact. And then we also have to address the false positive burden. Now, this is something you've talked about with screening tests just generally speaking, but in this particular study, 60% of the positive signals were also like false alarms. And for those patients, that means some sort of like diagnostic odyssey of PET scans, CT scans, and perhaps invasive biopsies for cancers they don't actually have. And then on top of that, there's some racial disparities here because the models are generally trained on white people. And while sensitivity appears similar in other populations, the sample sizes in those cohorts were pretty small. So we need to make sure that these tools don't exacerbate the existing access gap in screening due to the large price tag. These things run from like $700 to $1,000. So we have a test that appears statistically like pretty good, but pretty noisy on some other cases. And when you layer in the fact that the sensitivity for the very early stage one cancers that we actually want to find out, the detection rate is pretty low, the value proposition starts to look bit shaky. Now, Austin, you've been pretty vocal about the harms of over-screening, kind of alluded to that earlier. When you see these numbers, especially like that relatively high false positive rate, what is your primary concern for the patient sitting across from you might be wanting a test like this? Yeah, I think it's a matter of managing expectations. And again, this kind of dichotomy that we have of people who are like maximizers who, you know, some people say like, look, I'm an adult, I can handle a false positive and I'm willing to deal with all the complications. And I'm like, okay, I mean, I still think we ought to have a conversation about this because there's, you know, some pretty catastrophic potential there, their edge, they're rare, for sure. But it reminds me of a case study or a paper that was published in JAMA many years ago called the $50,000 physical for anyone who's in healthcare who's interested. Really interesting story about how kind of a simple in clinic kind of even guideline based screening sort of thing led to some pretty catastrophic kind of downstream complications, despite everyone having the best of intentions towards their patient. And so, you know, there are certainly those negative outcomes. And then there's of course, the very also similarly compelling stories of people who say, well, I got this test and it found this cancer and it saved my life. It's like, well, there's some logical leaps there. I won't like push back, you know, challenge that too hard to your face, at least, but in my mind, I still wonder, well, we caught a cancer, was it the bird that flew out of the barn that was, you know, or was it this snail that was never going to kill you in a matter of what, or was it the animal that we now have a opportunity to treat and actually meaningfully impact, you're like, we kind of don't know, we don't have that kind of counterfactual to speak of here. So the idea that we have a test being promoted for screening with very, with, you know, relatively poor sensitivity, that is a problem for me because I would prefer a good screening test to have really good sensitivity to tell me that if it's negative, I'm done. I don't need to proceed further. And if it is going to catch something, I would prefer it to actually have pretty good utility for that in the earlier stages when I have the opportunity to intervene. It is not going to be as useful to diagnose a late stage thing when I already have other methods to diagnose the late stage things like a biopsy for cancer that will tell me what this cancer is. And when it's at its late stage, and then that can inform my prognostic discussion. So it's almost like the use case for this remains in question for me compared with what we're actually looking for in practice. Yeah, no, that's well said. And I think this is going to become even more important because about two weeks ago, Grail, which is a company, submitted its final module for FDA pre-market approval for their multi-cancer diagnostic called Gallery. And they teamed up with HIMS for this. Now, there is an ongoing NHS Gallery trial with over 140,000 participants in it. It's the only study that's been designed to show if these tests actually reduce late stage cancer incidents and mortality at the population level, but the results aren't there yet. So until we see that data, we're basically looking at a surrogate marker, maybe cancer detection, not necessarily a survival benefit, even if it does that well. We've got to be wary of the trap where we find the cancer earlier, but don't actually extend the patient's life. They just get a longer time of being a cancer patient, which obviously, again, managing expectations for somebody says they can handle it. That can be a challenging discussion. Totally, yeah. For sure. It would be nice if we held these things to very legitimate screening test standards and said, hey, show me that this actually improves real outcomes. Yeah. Yeah. So as far as the use case here, I'm thinking about, again, we go back to the first thing we talked about, the biological clock. You got all the traditional risk factors that are known and accounted for, still curious or worried, perhaps of either a personal family history of particular cancer or something like that, and you have adequate resources financially and psychologically to potentially manage this. I guess I could see a use case for this, especially someone's maybe over the age of 50, for example, and again, has that family history. The price point is pretty significant, but I would want to emphasize it's not really a swap. You don't like take existing cancer screens that we have and just, you don't need to do that. You got this blood test, for example. It's more of an add-on. There are many other types of cancer screening tests that are relatively good evidence for that you commonly hear about. So cervical cancer screening, colorectal cancer screening would still want to do those in addition, so it's not really a swap. And Austin has some maybe interesting bones to pick with the USPSTF guidelines, especially around breast cancer screening. We'll save that for a separate podcast, but does that seem like a reasonable use case for this, if you were thinking about it? Yeah, I would, as with many other things, I'm not terribly rigid in these decisions for patients who are very motivated.  and have the resources to pursue them as long as I feel like they've been sufficiently informed and are aware of what they're getting themselves into. I try not to be overly paternalistic about these things, but rather to walk with the person through whatever their health journey holds and try to be a useful advisor to them rather than somebody who's dictating to them what they can and can't do. Yeah, well said. So yeah, early detection can be a double-edged sword. It offers the promise of a cure, but also the risk of maybe unnecessary intervention and workup. As we refine these techniques, the goal remains the same. Adding years to your life and life to your years, not just more time at the doctor's office, even though we're generally happy to see you. Speaking of adding years, we're going to shift from the lab to the gym. We come back from the break. We're discussing how to lift for your life the science of exercise and longevity. Between moving into a new house, managing the business, and keeping up with my own training, my schedule is pretty much a disaster right now. For me, I realized that cooking healthy meals just wasn't going to happen when I found myself finishing a long day and realizing I still had an hour of prep and cleanup ahead of me. Look, you want to eat better, and when you have zero time and energy, Factor solves the problem. Two minutes, real food, and you're done. It's not that you're failing at healthy eating, you're just failing at having extra hours in the day. Factor makes it super easy. All of their meals are made by chefs and designed by dietitians, and then they're delivered right to your door. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats with no added sugars. I've been leaning on the Muscle Pro collection as it fits my needs as someone doing a lot of training. I also have high protein options, vegetarian options, and a ton of other different dietary patterns too. Anyway, slice it, all of their meals are fresh, never frozen, and the food is ready in minutes. It's super easy to stay on track. Factor. Head over to factormeals.com slash bbm50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for an entire year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with code and qualifying auto renewing subscription purchase. Make healthier eating easier with Factor. This podcast is brought to you by Biggs. At Barbell Medicine, we spend a lot of time talking about what it takes to build a body that can handle high level performance, but the recovery in health side is just as critical. Over the last six years, an incredible team of health care professionals did something that most people thought was impossible. They helped rebuild the body of legendary Olympian Lindsey Vaughn after a series of devastating injuries. And now she's actually headed back to the 2026 Winter Games in Milan and she's ready to break records once again. This February, Lindsey's team and the entire USA medical team will be wearing figs and you can rock their official uniform too. The new Team USA collection from figs is engineered with FiberX. It's their most durable fabric yet. It really is setting a new gold standard for a high level performance scrubwear because it's lightweight, it's breathable, and it's ultra resilient for those long shifts. And of course, the style comes in red, white, and blue. Now if you want the gear that the medical team behind the world's best athletes are wearing, check out the limited edition Team USA collection. You get 15% off your first order at wearfigs.com with code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com code FIGSRX. We talk a lot about efficiency and high yield results in training and your wardrobe should follow the same logic. A well-built wardrobe is about pieces that work together and hold up over time and that's what Quince does best. Premium materials, thoughtful design, and everyday staples that feel easy to wear and easy to rely on, even as the weather changes. Quince has everyday essentials I love with quality that lasts. From organic cotton sweaters and polos for every occasion to lighter jackets for the changing seasons. The secret is that they work directly with top factories and cut out the middlemen so you're not paying for a massive brand markup. You're just getting quality clothing and everything is built to hold up to daily wear and still look good season after season. Plus, they only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. We've recently had some cooler weather in Southern California so I've been rotating through a few of their cashmere sweaters and their jackets if I'm going somewhere else besides the gym. They look great and they've been holding up way better than others I've bought that cost way more so for me it's a no-brainer. Refresher wardrobe with Quince. Go to quince.com slash bbm for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. Now available in Canada too, that's quince.com slash bbm. Free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince.com slash bbm. Alright, many people discuss exercise as if it's a single generic pill. Just be more active, they say. But the reality is that exercise is a complex prescription with highly specific ingredients. For example, how much and what type of exercise is best for longevity and how much doesn't matter that the person responds to the exercise by getting fitter. If we can identify specific benchmarks, exactly how much you need to lift or how fast you need to move, we can transition from vague advice to actionable targets that effectively lower your risk of dying early. Now Austin, we've got so much evidence on medications when it comes to dosing, monitoring and expected benefits. We know that if we lower blood pressure by 5 millimeters of mercury, we reduce the risk of major cardiac events like heart attacks by about 10%. Why do you think we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise? I will gently push back and say I don't know that it is the case that we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise. There is a pretty abundant base of literature around kind of correlational data of dose response and things like that between exercise volume and some data sets, exercise intensity and other data sets, some of which we've actually talked about recently on the podcast where these things on a sufficiently broad population level, oftentimes using self-reported data for all the problems that come with that. It's unsurprising that those who do much more and who are able to do more intense generally have better outcomes. How much of that is causal from them doing more and doing it more intensely leading to better outcomes? How much of it is healthier people can also do those things? Kind of like the data around depression. There's a lot of people who bandied about these papers saying that exercise clearly cures depression. It's like, well, how much of it is that extremely depressed people have a hard time doing exercise? There's probably some blend. I would be totally unsurprised to learn that there's some element of causation there, but also some element of kind of correlational, almost accidental association or reverse causation as well. I think we have some data on this relating to this dose response phenomenon between volume and intensity and frequency and certain health metrics. I think we would both prefer that it be a little bit more granular in nature and maybe even correlated not just between the dose of exercise and the outcome, but maybe like what are the specific mediating factors between that dosage of exercise and that outcome? What is the thing that mediates it? Does it necessitate a certain degree of adaptation? In which case, what is the minimum adaptive unit that you need? How much of an increase in VO2 max will cause a given health benefit? Because even then we have correlational data between VO2 max and health outcomes, right? But how much of that is causal or how much of it is just like simultaneous? You're adapting in one area and getting health benefits in another. That kind of mediating analysis would be super interesting for like the exercise physiology like nerds and medical clinicians here. A lot of people don't need that level of granularity, but that would be kind of an additional level that would be interesting to have. Yeah, I just think of like a tiered approach like you'd want more physicians, more healthcare providers to just more people generally speaking, not only to be recommending exercise, but doing the correct behavior change counseling to manifest that, right? So that's like on the floor, got to do that. Thing two would be, okay, ensuring that people are being adherent and doing those things, right? So now, yeah, that's the second part. Third part is, are they actually getting fitter, right? So if we think or find that actual improvements in fitness as measured by VO2 max, various strength metrics or whatever, are need to happen in order to improve somebody's health, then we should be monitoring them and have like certain benchmarks. That assumes that's true. So let's dive in here. We know that going from zero exercise to some exercise is probably the most useful transition point, the largest bang for the buck, if you will. So you go from no exercise to doing half the current guidelines, you're going to get the majority of your health related benefits from that transition compared to going from, all right, I'm doing half the current guidelines amount of exercise to double. Like it's just, yeah, going from zero to something tends to be a bigger bang for your buck. And if you hit the physical activity guidelines, that's light years better. Your resistance training twice a week, you're doing 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic training on most days. And the current physical activity guidelines do kind of list out like how often you should do it, the general intensity that it should be done at and things of that nature. But it's incomplete. It's incomplete to me because it has no monitoring and recommendations for dosing adjustments to achieve specific benchmarks. Now maybe this doesn't matter. If you've ever wondered why so many mediocre personal trainers stay in business, it's because exercise is remarkably hard to get wrong enough that it doesn't work. Unlike a surgical procedure or like a narrow therapeutic index drug where a 10% dosing error is a catastrophe, exercise has a massive safety margin and a physiological buffer that is incredibly forgiving. You can do a lot of stuff wrong and still get benefits. I think about this often when I'm in the gym. Still, I think we need to move towards a more precise exercise prescription, one that mandates monitoring the specific clinical performance benchmarks that drive health and longevity. In Austin, to me, the current general guidelines seem analogous to prescribing a new medication at a fixed dose for every single patient and then never monitoring their physiological response. In what other area of medicine would we ever find that acceptable? Yeah, it doesn't really tend to happen very much. There's lots of areas in medicine where there are broad based clinical guidelines of like here is where you start, right? That might come to menopausal hormone therapy or here's how you would initiate thyroid replacement, or here's how you would treat somebody's blood lipids or something like that. But most of the time, it is based on, hey, here's the reasonable place to start and then monitoring and adjusting from there to achieve the outcome you want. That's the aspect of this that you're describing that's missing is we have the general guidelines on where to start. But if somebody is not meaningfully responding to that whatever starting dose you end up prescribing for them, it does require some kind of iterative adjustment, trial and error, interrogating what are they doing? Are they actually meeting the recommendations? What are the barriers and what dosage adjustments need to be made and how to get the outcomes that we're actually looking for rather than assuming that, oh, if I told them to do the guidelines, quote unquote, whatever that means. Even if they are meeting those guidelines, are they getting everything that we're looking for out of their activity? They might be somebody who's a little bit more physiologically resistant to that intervention, or they may be somebody who's even physiologically very sensitive to it in various ways for better or for worse. That might require some individualization. A lot of this is a bit more theoretical than it is strongly evidence-based that ultra-individualized exercise programming will lead to better risk of death, for example. That would need to be proven. But it is an intuitive concept that is broadly applied in many other areas of medicine. It's reasonable, I think, at this point to, in a sense, extrapolate it here and say we should actually try to get people not just doing these things, but objectively benefiting in some way from them. Yeah. So let's get into this longevity and training discussion. We think generally about the effects of meeting the current physical activity guidelines on things like mortality, so premature death. So for conditioning alone, meeting the aerobic guidelines by themselves, 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, it's associated with about a 30% reduction in all-cause mortality. Resistance training alone, adding those two days of muscle strengthening exercises, provides an independent benefit of 10% to 17% reduction in premature mortality. And when you do both, but you're looking at more like a 40% reduction in risk, this is kind of though where the one-size-fits-all prescription fails. And when we stop looking at just the activity and start looking at the actual physiological response, maybe like a key performance indicator or KPI for exercise, I think that we've got a little bit more nuance here. So the two big ones you're going to look at are VO2-Max and Strength. And now it's long been said, I'm sure that there are clips of many different influencers available for us to clip here and put them in. VO2-Max is the strongest predictor of survival. People have been saying that. People have been saying that. And look, there's data here. The Mansager study in 2018, 122,000 subjects found that elite cardiorespiratory fitness, the top 2.3% for VO2-Max, correlated with an 80% reduction in mortality risk compared to the lowest VO2-Max. And there is no ceiling for these benefits. That's important. It seems like as you continue to go up and up and up in cardiorespiratory fitness, the risk, particularly from cardiovascular disease, seems to go down. So generally speaking, you could say more cardio equals more better. And I'd be fine with that. But historically, Strength has been like a secondary to that. And I think even on some of our older podcasts, we've said, look, if you're listening to this podcast, if you're a barbell medicine podcast listener, you're probably doing enough for strength. But that's gotten some new legs that maybe strength is even more important than even us, maybe the biggest promoters of strength training in the industry, especially for clinical outcomes. Maybe it's getting some new legs here. So this 2025 Clinomex data, about 4,000 people that they looked at, they showed a massive discrepancy between muscular power and muscular strength, where muscular power, relative muscular power, so relative to somebody's body weight, provided it nearly 20 times higher risk discrimination than strength when they analyze the data. Now why? Well, it's one, the way they tested these things. Maximal muscle power was measured basically like an upright row. They pulled on a weight stack with the handle on it as fast as possible while they measured strength with a hand-grip test. And you're like, okay, which one would tie in multiple systems of the body in a way that is very predictive of badness happening? It's not going to be just you squeezing on something real hard. It's going to be you doing some sort of dynamic task that coordinates your body to move quickly and powerfully together. Now that being said, we talked about that on our last podcast about hand-grip strength. It does seem like low muscular power, in part, is a very high risk of mortality from this study. So, the first one was that the individual with the lowest power production had a hazard ratio up to 6.9, which if you're not familiar with hazard ratios, I'll give it to you in percentages. That's a 590% increased risk of death compared to those who are in the highest power group. Austin, do you think that power really is more predictive than strength, or it's just the way that's being tested in a research study like this? Probably some element to both. It does strike me that power is probably a really good integrator to your point, similar to the way that VO2max might be a good integrator of the full cardio respiratory pathway from the oxygen molecule coming into your lungs from the environment to getting delivered to the tissue and metabolize that integrates things at many levels there. And then similarly, power integrates the entire neuro-musculoskeletal apparatus, in a sense, a little bit better than strength. And it may even be a little bit more of a leading indicator of disease and decline, because it does tend to decay more than strength does. The magnitude of effect that we're observing here may be a little bit more impacted by that method measurement because of how poor hand grip strength is. But I think that the relationship is very plausible to me. I buy that. And so if you tell me, for example, somebody is able to pick your elite VO2max performance metric of choice, and you tell me that somebody has it, I'm like, okay, I feel really good in general about their cardio respiratory fitness level, whether it's by purely VO2max or a performance metric. Similarly, if you said that their power, whether given to me in terms of power units, or you told me that this person can power snatch, you know, 315 pounds, I'm like, yeah, I think they're good. I don't really need to know too much else about them, right? Yeah. No, that's a good point. Yeah. You'd feel similarly as confident, you know, 300-pound power snatch was crazy, right? Sure. Like, hey, they got a four-times body weight leg press. Yeah. I think the power snatch tells me more. Now, there are still other metrics that I would need to know about them, for example, because it's like, hey, what's their waist measurement though? What's the resting blood pressure? Both the hip and the hip. Yeah, it's not the only metric. Right? But in so far as we're in this realm of like muscular performance, for example, yeah, the snatch tells me more than the leg press, I think. Yeah. Leg press more than the hand grip strength, but maybe the power snatch even more. Right. Yeah. Now, here's where things get interesting. You look at these two massive data sets side by side, the numbers are telling. Two to max, a jump from the bottom of the pack to the elite top 2% resulted in an 80% reduction in the risk of premature death. But if we put that in reverse, if you have elite cardio and you lose it, this same data set would suggest that your risk of death doesn't just double, it increases by over 400%. Now, if we compare that to the Clinomex findings on muscle power, they found that individuals with the lowest power category had a 590% increased risk of death compared to the high power group. If we just look at these two data sets, this means that while we have this power, we have historically called the O2 max the ultimate predictor, perhaps muscle power may actually provide a higher risk thoughts. That's an interesting argument. I haven't know the thoughts beyond that at this time. Yeah. Same. Same. Now, okay. So how about some targets here? So let's start off with elite targets for conditioning. And this is going to vary by age, by sex. There's also some thought that ethnicity also matters and things of that nature. But just generally speaking, if you're a man aged 30 to 45, we want your VO2 max greater than 56 mils per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max test. Or it's like a field test. If you went for a one and a half mile run, you could do it faster than nine minutes and 30 seconds. For a woman in this age demo, it's 48 milliliters per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max and a one and a half mile run faster than 11 minutes. And then as we age, these things change. So 45 to 75, if you're a man, a VO2 max of 48 and a one and a half mile run of less at less than 11 minutes for that. And for women in that age demographic, it's a VO2 max greater than 38 and a one and a half mile run less than 13 and a half minutes. So those are some ways to maybe to assess your VO2 max and see how you stack up compared to the elite in at least that data set we were referencing. Now elite targets for strength and power are not quite as clean. There's not a lot of real data here, especially using dynamic strength like a squat, a bench press, or even like a leg press. In fact, there's really only one data set and it's only in dudes from the Cooper Institute. Basically they looked at leg press, one rep max and chest press, one rep max and then kind of saw how they're, what risk of mortality did they have over the next period of time. It looked like for dudes, if they had a leg press of one rep max of greater than twice their body weight and about 1.6 to two times their body weight for women, we're extrapolating that data obviously, that that seemed to be put them in the elite sort of strength category. For chest press, it was one and a half times body weight for men and one times body weight for women. Again, noting that this is only data in men and this is one study, it's a lot of caveats here. And that's probably best suited for individuals below the age of 50, whereas when we get older, things are going to change again just like they did with the VO2 max. And so again, made up numbers, I think having a leg press one rep max of like 1.5 times body weight for men or higher or 1.2 times body weight or higher for women, that's a reasonable target. And then for the chest press, it'd be body weight. So one times body weight for men and maybe 0.6 times body weight for women. You could also use relative hand grip strength and to the extent there's data on strength and like longevity, there's way more data here than there is on like dynamic strength tests. So for example, we know that for every five kilograms increase in absolute grip strength that's associated with about 10 to 15% reduction in all cause mortality risk. For most adults, a 10% gain in hand grip strength translates to about 3 to 5 kilos improvement in hand grip strength, which places folks into a lower risk category. The biggest improvements, however, we see are people going from low hand grip strength to normal hand grip strength. There's some improvement from normal to even more trained. Now, this is speculative because as we mentioned in our hand grip strength test that relative hand grip strength is probably a better marker, mainly because it corrects for the obesity paradox. We know that the single biggest predictor of somebody's hand grip strength is how much lean body mass they're carrying and individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass. So if we compare this to somebody's body weight, so kilos are able to produce, you know, force wise on a hand grip strength test to their kilos of body weight, we can come up with the ratio. So the average in the population right now is about 0.55 to 0.6 for men and 0.40 to 0.45 for women. And so for thinking about elite targets, right, what's that top sort of cohort, let's add 10%. Again, admittedly speculative, but I'm showing my work. You have to start somewhere. So for men, this would be a target range of 0.61 to 0.66 for relative hand grip strength and for women, a target range of 0.44 to 0.50. Again, they are speculative, but I think if someone, you know, gunned in my head, hey, what are some strength metrics I should be monitoring or targeting to make sure that somebody's getting the most out of their exercise program, better than nothing, I think. Although I'd like to see that validated because maybe it is better than nothing. Maybe exercise just works so damn well that we don't need these targets. It would be nice if that were the case, but I do not think that it is quite that special. So I agree that giving some general, even if speculative guidance here is better than nothing, but yeah, worthy of further study. Yeah, so that's strength, which most people measure by low velocity force production, one rep max, stuff like that, or in this case, a hand grip strength test, an isometric test. But what about power? There are tests of grip strength power, how quickly you close the thing and with what force, but maybe a more practical example would be like a vertical jump. And there's some data out there showing that a vertical jump of greater than 10 inches in men and greater than 8 inches in women would put them into an elite power category based on normative data we have of people in their 50s and 60s. I'm thinking about if I had a 60 something year old who's relatively untrained and they came in the gym, am I testing their vertical jump? Maybe it depends on your eyeball test when they walk in, right? How do they walk in? What is there? You're already paying attention to their gate speed and how they move and things like that to make that kind of a decision. There are some who might surprise you and then others where it's like you can tell just by the way they move that, yeah, this is not not wise. Yeah. Yeah. So those are some targets for like strength, cardiovascular fitness and power. And I think another thing we need to add here is progress, right? So we have some of these KPIs, but we also need to make sure the person's getting stronger, getting fitter, because getting stronger works better. We've got two recent systematic reviews that found a dose response relationship between strength gain and improvements in both resting blood pressure and hemoglobin A1c. So how your blood sugar has been doing for the past few months. In both reviews, the subjects that gained the most strength, reduce their blood pressure and their hemoglobin A1c by greater amounts compared to those who didn't improve as much in their strength or who did so to a smaller degree. We think that there are overlapping mechanisms here, contributing both to strength and health improvements, mostly mediated by the MTOR pathway and myokines. These are little hormones that your muscles produce when you use them, which seems to interfere with or otherwise reduce inflammatory pathways. This is an area of active research at the moment. Similarly, we also know that improving the O2 max works better from exercise compared to an exercise plan where you don't actually gain cardiovascular fitness similar to the data on strength, large scale studies, such as the heritage family study and subsequent analyses, demonstrate a clear relationship between the size or magnitude of the cardiovascular adaptation and health outcomes. Individuals who exhibited the largest increases in VO2 max experienced the most significant improvements in their metabolic health markers, so things like insulin sensitivity, lipid profiles, vascular function, whereas non-responders, those who performed the prescribed exercise but saw little to no change in their cardiovascular fitness, well, they showed significantly reduced improvements in these clinical markers. And for this, we think that the health benefits are intrinsically tied to the actual physiological adaptation rather than just the time spent exercising, probably mediated through amkinex because that's the major sort of pathway involved in cardiovascular fitness. Yes, so if we had to come over some barbell medicine, physical activity, guidelines for longevity, I think we'd move past the resistance train twice a week and the due conditioning for 150 minutes at minimum for a week. To me, that's like the floor, not the ceiling. And for longevity, I think that people need to exercise more, probably more than they want to or even can in the modern environment. So for aerobic training, I think my target would be moving away from 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, but more towards 300 to 600 minutes. Now, that is admittedly a lot. Admittedly, it is. But and at this volume, I think training intensity and how you distribute that matters. So the majority of this work should be done in the 60 to 80 percent range for max heart rate where you can speak comfortably, but not sing. A smaller portion, maybe up to a quarter of the total amount of conditioning that you're doing, should be done at higher intensities where speaking at all is difficult. And you should monitor performance to make sure that you're making progress related to your cardiorespiratory fitness, such as objectively testing your VO2 max or testing your one and a half mile run. And for resistance training, two to three days a week of lifting weights is the minimum that usually represents about two hours per week for most folks who are not listeners to the Parbo Medicine podcast. But for longevity, many individuals will need more training, perhaps another hour or two. And this can be split up into as many sessions as the individual prefers. The weights that are being moved should be challenging, but not maximal for most exercise, so something like two to four repetitions left in reserve. They should be hard, not maximal. And the exercises selected should target all of the major muscle groups of the body with user preference being the primary factor when it comes to specific exercise selection. Importantly, strength progress should be monitored to ensure the maximum return on investment when it comes to time spent exercising. And we detailed some of those. Now, Austin, to me, these seem like a sort of like treat to target strategy when it comes to exercise. What do you think about that? Yeah, I like the idea. It's something that reminds me of phrases that we used around blood lipids back in the day, which went away for a while and then kind of have come back to some extent in certain circles and same with kind of blood pressure of thinking about adjusting treatments to a particular target that is most clearly causally and or associated with lower risk of complications. So I think it's a reasonable way to go about this as with the drug therapies and those sorts of things related to blood cholesterol, blood pressure, etc. Where we had stronger outcome data, it would be nice to have the same here. But I like the idea of setting some kind of a target and tinkering and iteratively modifying and adjusting to try to get where you're trying to go. Yeah. So if you're doing the work, but your benchmarks are not moving, you know, we don't want to label you, but it seems like you may be non responsive to that specific dose and formulation of exercise. And in that case, we don't want to keep doing the same thing. We should adjust the prescription just like you would with medications. But that adaptation doesn't happen in a vacuum. If we're moving the goalposts from generic activity to these sort of elite performance targets that we associate with health, we have to address the most contested topic in the longevity and recovery communities, dietary protein. We're essentially caught between two competing biological realities. On the one side, you have the argument that high protein, especially that from animal sources, is like stepping on a gas pedal for aging by over activating growth pathways like MTOR and IGF-1. And then on the other side, we have this frailty trap where losing muscle mass and power is a much more immediate threat to your independence than theoretical cellular signaling. Between these arguments and the recent changes to the dietary guidelines that have raised the target protein intake, the question is how much protein should people be eating for longevity? So, Austin, before we get into some of the science, how would you even go about answering this question? A lot of it would depend on the person I'm talking to and trying to kind of meet them where they're at in both their level of understanding, knowledge, what their goals are and what they're trying to accomplish. There are going to be those who come from a background of either relatively little knowledge or purely from the all I've read everything in the world around the longevity space. So I'm coming in with a bias towards protein restriction, in which case we might need to discuss like, oh, there's actually some potential benefits to consuming some dietary protein, particularly in a supportive role for the resistance exercise that we just went into great detail on to support the adaptations that we're looking for there. And then we may also, and more likely in our context, have somebody coming in who is coming from the strength and power athlete world, bodybuilding, etc. Who is trying to consume very, very large amounts of dietary protein in many cases more than they might actually need. I think that both of us would retain some skepticism that that level of intake would be necessarily actively harming them in many situations, but the level that they actually require is probably less than they think. And they may actually derive some benefit through smart substitutions with other types of food sources. And so, you know, it really, as with many of these kinds of patient level conversations, it's just individualized based on who I'm talking to.  and so on. So, I'm going to start by talking to you. As far as answering this question on the scientific level, that's like another whole kind of question here that is not really our niche of like, how would I go about designing a research study to answer this question? Because then you have to start out by defining like, well, how are we defining longevity? And then going through the whole process of setting up a nutritional epidemiological study, which is, yeah, I would defer to our friend, Dr. Flanagan, to help us with that kind of thing. Yeah, that still doesn't absolve us from answering the question, you know, do we need to lower our protein targets or raise them? And so, I think we should look at some data and just see the arguments on both sides and maybe we can come to some sort of agreement or consensus here. All right, so the argument for lower protein. The case for protein restriction is built on the nutrient-sensing pathway known as mTOR, okay? So, you eat much of dietary protein, this pathway sort of kicks off and it is an anabolic pathway. So, if you're a lifter, you're familiar with this because you're like, yeah, when I lift weights, it does the same pathway too. You're very concerned with your mTOR related signaling. But advocates of a lower protein diet argue that chronic activation of this growth pathway via high amino acid, high protein intake, especially from leucine-rich animal sources, accelerates cellular deterioration or senescence. Now, this view is backed by significant rodent data where low protein diets consistently lead to longer lifespans in controlled environments. And proponents of this view suggest that the higher IGF-1, so insulin-like growth factor 1, that those levels, particularly during middle age, are the primary driver of cancer and metabolic dysfunction. From this perspective, the modern high protein diet is a biological mismatch for long-term cellular health. And for reference, most adults in the United States are eating a decent amount of protein. It's about 88 grams of protein per day or about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now, again, there's a lot of variation here. That's the average. So, Austin, what do you think about the idea that adults should be eating less protein to live longer? Based on what has been laid out here so far, I take kind of multiple issues with this. The first is that living longer itself is, in my mind, an incomplete goal, like living longer at all costs. And so there is a threshold beyond which there would actually start to be costs from further and further protein restriction. The other is that this argument so far is based predominantly on mechanistic-type arguments, which I think, as we've laid out before, you and I are both a little bit reticent to adopt in our clinical recommendations with great confidence. It might be something that comes up in our conversations, but is heavily caveated and tempered when it is based purely on mechanistic evidence. And the last reason is that protein is not one thing. And I suspect that the effects of the actual foods themselves is probably of greater significance, like everything that comes in the whole food source that you are consuming, rather than the fact that you are consuming an amino acid or a chain of amino acids in particular. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's well said. And I think what we dive into some of this research on higher protein intakes and how does that correlate, this will start to kind of reveal itself. So there is a 2020 BMJ meta-analysis of 31 prospective studies that found protein, total protein intake is associated with a lower cause mortality, but this is primarily driven by plant sources. So what they found is that people with higher total protein intake, they had a lower risk of premature death, provided that that protein was coming mostly from plants. So for every 3% increase in calories from plant protein, that correlated with a 5% reduction in the risk of premature mortality. It's thought that plant protein signals or may signal longevity more effectively because it typically results in a lower IGF-1 level than animal protein, particularly in sedentary individuals. There is also this weird kind of signal in the data that's related to age, something this transitioned between like middle age and older age. So for adults aged 50 to 65, higher protein intake, 20% or more of calories, that was associated with a four fold increase in cancer mortality. These were mostly sedentary individuals who are not talking about lifters who are protein maxing, for example, and there is a risk of dietary pattern confounding. Basically means like what else are you eating and where is this protein coming from? It's not plant based, it's more animal and it's processed food, for example. It does seem to disappear with more plant protein intake. But then it shifts for adults over the age of 65, high protein intake is associated with reduced cancer and all cause mortality. Reacting is like a protective factor against frailty if you were thinking about sarcopenia risk, for example. So Austin, do you think that this age related change in proteins effects are due to maybe developing anabolic resistance and subsequent sarcopenia risk or it's just like an artifact of the data set and it's just noisy? Yeah, I think it's super noisy. I do not have confident conclusions here. And so I think it's honestly a waste of time for me to speculate a ton on this because this whole body of literature is really complex and nuanced to interpret even though at the same time the conclusions that we tend to draw and how that informs our recommendations is not nearly as complex. I think that for me, if anything, over the years my protein recommendations for folks have been revised downward. And I think that that's emerged from a transition from a focus on optimizing kind of musculoskeletal adaptations without really much consideration for much else and also the fact that a decade ago our understanding and the body of evidence was more limited compared with where we are now to now having more data to inform these things, having a better kind of fund of knowledge around it and then other considerations as well. So now I tend to much more often recommend falling somewhere north of 1.2 grams per kilo and I tend to bias it much more predominantly towards plant-based sources and that also reflects my own dietary pattern, especially in recent years. I think that we have seen compelling evidence that when people are consuming protein at this dose range of say somewhere in the range of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilo per day, even if the vast majority of it is coming from plant-derived protein sources, they can get very similar, if not equivalent musculoskeletal adaptations. They get tons of other health benefits. Those protein sources also tend to come with decent amounts of dietary fiber and other kind of like beneficial plant-based bioactives and things like that. And so that is kind of where things have landed. I do not personally eat a diet that is entirely exclusionary of certain animal-derived food products, particularly dairy as a very common source in my own diet, but others may obviously weigh and make these decisions differently. But that's been I think the predominant kind of shift over the years in terms of my recommendations and conclusions from the available evidence. And though some of these like little nuances and like interesting quirks and age-related variations, I don't really know what to make of it at this time. Yeah, I'm more just looking at like straight up just outcome data, like to the extent that we have them and then just realizing this whole field is much more complex. When people say, oh, this singular factor does X, I'm like, be sure. That's pretty challenging. So I think right now my recommendations on protein, I don't know that they're any different than they were a year ago, two years ago. If anything, I'm more tolerant of an even lower intake. Like if I was a hard line, 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Yeah. Okay, if it's 1.2, like it's fine. Yeah, absolutely. And I think mainly when people are thinking about protein maxing, particularly those who are not training, I think I could maybe guess that there are some benefits. Like, okay, if you're increasing protein intake and you're displacing previously like ultra-processed foods with now more minimally processed or unprocessed protein sources, that's probably a net win from an energy intake perspective. Otherwise, I think if you were eating mostly chicken breast and fish and eggs and dairy and whatever, and they're like, should I lower my protein intake? I'm like, eh, or should I raise my protein intake? I'm like, probably not. If anything, you could take some of that protein and allocate it towards plant-based sources. You get like a double whammy one, more plant-based food in general, likely to be better, more fiber, generally better. For people that are not eating that much protein and they're like, should I increase my protein? I'm like, yeah, but probably do it through plant-based sources if you can. Otherwise, I just don't find this particularly interesting. I'm like, it's part of this larger dietary pattern that's much more concerning to me compared to, you know, is it 1.2? Is it 1.4? Is it 1.6? Is it 1.8? And look, if you are a highly competitive, you know, strength athlete, physique athlete or whatever, I understand that this whole that you don't care. Like you just probably turned the podcast off, but if you still happen to be listening, I also don't know that there's a risk of eating that much protein. I really don't, particularly with that sort of dietary pattern. You're probably eating a lot of vegetables, we hope. You're probably not eating a lot of ultra processed foods and the energy intake is likely correct for your goals. And so this isn't meant to mean like you shouldn't eat as much protein. I'm not trying to fear Manga. I just think like we probably went a little too far. Yeah. I mean, but the thing is you still hear this from a lot of folks and influencers out there and certain social media personalities who are like, look, you must consume an extremely high dose of protein. Otherwise you're going to have no chance of building sufficient muscle or you're going to be at very high risk of sarcopenia. And it's like, none of those things are true when you get above this like modest level because the context of comorbid disease and your physical activity are way more important variables when it comes to your muscle outcomes compared with whether you're consuming 1.2 or 1.6 or if you go up to 2.2 or 3.1 or any of those sorts of things. I think that like we're kind of shifting this to put it in its appropriate level of waiting in the, if you're going to care about like musculoskeletal health, like the risk of sarcopenia for most people is not like off the charts high compared with the risk of like cardiovascular disease, much higher risk, right? And so, you know, even just by doing a modest amount of physical training, you can avert the risk of sarcopenia. Even if you are consuming a relatively lower protein diet, you'd be fine from that standpoint. Whereas the converse is not true. If you cranked up your dietary protein, but you were like completely physically, you know, inactive or insufficiently active, I'd be more worried about that person. And so we're kind of waiting these things a little bit more appropriately, I think at this point in time for what are the actual risks that we're being faced with and what are the outcome data that we have available to us to inform those things rather than like this chain of either mechanistic reasoning or reasoning that ignores the outcome data to say, you need protein for muscles, more protein is better, animal protein is the most bioavailable, therefore, like eat all the, you know, ribeye in the world. And it's like, yeah, that breaks apart at multiple levels along the way. Yeah. Yeah. Will said. All right. Well, when we come back from this break, we're going to talk about the most potent peptide that's trending on TikTok. Oh, God. If you want. Quick break from our podcast, because I want to mention today's sponsor, Caraway. Now I've been going through the process of moving into a new house and I've been finding a lot of things that I'm ready to replace. That includes stuff that I cook with in the kitchen. Enter Caraway. Caraway has gained a lot of traction for their non-toxic ceramic coating. From a materials perspective, these are designed to be third-party tested and manufactured without the use of forever chemicals like PFAS. Now, while the long-term clinical data on the cumulative exposure to some of these compounds is still an area of active research, many people, myself included, prefer to simply minimize exposure whenever possible. Beyond the chemistry, the actual utility is what stands out. I can confirm that the ceramic surface actually works. It makes the transition from cooking to cleaning significantly more efficient and, despite using it daily for the last few months, it shows no signs of wear. Oh, yeah. It looks great, too. They've recently expanded their line as well. They've released a new mechanical kitchen timer that's easy to use, even if your hands are messy during food prep. They also launched the Bakeware Plus collection that uses the same specialty ceramic coating for easier food release and quick cleanup after you're done cooking. Over 100,000 people have rated Caraway Kitchen's five stars, so if you're looking to upgrade your setup with equipment that matches a health-conscious lifestyle, Caraway's Cookware set is a smart entry point. It can save you up to $190 versus buying the pieces individually. To get yours, visit carawayhome.com-bbm to take an additional 10% off your next purchase. This deal is exclusive to our listeners, so do use code BBM at checkout or go to carawayhome.com-bbm for non-toxic kitchenware made modern. All right, so we are back, and we're talking again about the most popular peptide on TikTok. But this is different than what the rest of the influencers are talking about. This one actually has a bunch of good evidence that it does interesting things, and perhaps it is a longevity drug cloaked in obesity treatment clothing. You've heard about the weight loss, and you may have even heard about the sleep apnea benefits, but do you know how these medications affect the heart, the kidneys, the brain, and potentially more? Now Austin, you work with a lot of people who are taking these medications. Has anyone ever come to you requesting a prescription purely for a longevity benefit? Yeah, so I would, yeah, many, many, many hundreds, probably even getting into the well over a thousand plus folks on these medicines that I've accrued at this point. And the number of people who are looking at this purely through a longevity lens is pretty small. There's a little bit of a neuro, a couple, and those really are relating to one of a small handful of conditions that they're most worried about, but a lot of times it is relating to hypothetical neuroprotective benefits. Because I think that the management and risk reduction for cardiovascular disease at this point is pretty well established how we go about that, ensuring good metabolic health and blood pressure, lipid control, insulin sensitivity, physical activity, all those kind of things. Fortunately, many of those same things have benefits across numerous other organ systems to include the brain, but that neurodegenerative disease is a tough nut to crack in terms of our ability to prevent and mitigate morbidity and certainly premature death as a result of its complications. So that's actually been an area where I've had a handful of patients that I can think of off the top of my head inquire about. It's not one where I have a large body of evidence that I can stand on and say, yes, these drugs or even micro dosing, which is another common question around them, that that will confer that degree of benefit. But it's an interesting conversation to have. Many of these folks, as you can imagine, tend towards that health maximizer, optimizer, get tons of data, things like that end of the spectrum. Yeah, that makes sense. Now I think for steelmaning the other side of that argument, we're going to set maybe the risks of muscle loss aside. I feel like we have pounded that into the ground. We beat that horse. We're going to talk about it again to be clear. Yeah, I think we should with some new listeners here as an overblown thing, but go on. We'll set that aside for now. But I think maybe many people in the general public think of drugs like wegovy and zap bound and whatever they're going to call retachotide. Thinking about these drugs, they're just obesity medications. And so the extent that we're seeing these knock on benefits on whether it's cardiovascular disease, kidney health, perhaps even cognitive benefit, whatever, longevity, just more generally speaking, well, it's just due to managing the weight. And then there's this high collateral cost of sarcopenia. It's the muscle loss. It all comes down to muscle loss. And the first thing I should say is none of these studies so far are directly looking at muscle tissue. They're looking at lean mass and fat mass. So effectively anything that is not fat is considered lean mass. So that's water, bone, any sort of protein-based thing in your body, which certainly includes, but is not limited to just skeletal muscle. And so when we look at what would be maybe like a predicted loss or predicted composition of weight loss, you look at dietary interventions alone. So just calorie restriction. And on average for every pound or a unit of weight that people lose, about 75% of it will be fat mass and 25% will be not fat mass. Some of that is muscle, but certainly not all of it is actual skeletal muscle tissue. That would be our sort of line in the sand. Do GLP-1s do way worse than that, for example? And it doesn't really appear so on average. Yes, the step one trial initially that was the sort of like, wow, they're losing 40% lean mass for unit weight loss, but no study since that has shown that proportion. So it does seem to be a little outlier. Again, you look at the lifestyle-only group there and their lean mass losses in that step one trial, and you're like, okay, it's maybe like a measurement issue or a population issue or something else. But again, if this signal was reliable and robust, you'd see it every single time, and we just don't. So that's thing one. Thing two, what you would expect is, okay, if these people lose weight, right, and they tend to lose more weight with these anti-OBC medications. So then therefore they're losing way more muscle. So if that would be your prediction, then you would predict at the end of the study, if they were to check strength, functional status, anything like that, those would also be decreased. They would have a worse hand grip strength. They'd have a worse sit to stand. They would have worse walking speed. And this was actually tested in the semiline study. And in fact, despite no exercise or at least programmed exercise during the year-long study, it got better. The people who would have been diagnosed with sarcopenia was reduced. Their muscle quality improved. And so while their muscle cross-sectional area may have gone down, we think maybe they lost some intramuscular fat, for example. Other sort of things that don't really contribute to the muscle actually functioning or maybe, in fact, corrected by administration of these medicines. And then the third part of this is like, your, this concern around too much muscle loss comes down to the fact that people will bypass some sort of threshold where they were previously functional. Now they've lost enough muscle mass, their function has been decreased. They're starting from a higher point anyway. They have more muscle as is. You compare an individual with obesity to a lean counterpart, similar activity levels, notwithstanding. They have way more muscle. It's just, it's not really compared. You can't really compare them. Does the muscle work as well? Generally not, but they just have more of it. And so they're at such, they're so far removed for being at risk for sarcopenia due to carrying too little muscle mass. And sarcopenia again, is not just the loss of muscle mass, it's the loss of muscle function. It doesn't really register to me. It's not like a real risk. Like an individual with obesity who's appropriately prescribed this medication and monitored, it's just doesn't seem like a real risk. I think it's overblown. 100% agree. Yes, I'm inclined to agree. I also think that part of the conversation has been muddied by the fact that nobody actually, a lot of the people making these arguments don't really understand the differences in terms of the terminology used around body composition analysis. So they'll hear lean body mass or fat free mass or muscle mass. These are all different things. They're not the same thing. There is the water element. There is non muscle tissue that is also present in muscle, what is being measured and assumed to be muscle mass. That's the fat that's in there that can interfere with muscle quality. And so conflating all these terms into one thing and then saying, oh, people are hemorrhaging 40% of their muscle mass. And then conflating that with the idea that these people are developing sarcopenia left and right and that they're dying prematurely as a result. It's like these are like logical triple jumps that you're making from one to the other compared with what we actually observe in reality. Yeah. So this is part and this is more of just another annoyance that happens when you spend too much time on the internet, particularly on social media where you see talking head clips like this you may be watching. People will claim, well, look, obesity is really just a risk of undermuscle. It's undermuscled. And so the risk of losing that muscle far outweighs the benefits of losing fat mass. And that is completely opposite to what all of the evidence shows us. Again, not only do individuals with obesity tend to carry more muscle than their lean counterparts, but the muscle is not as protective as the fat is risky. Yes. We do prefer if you had, if you were an individual with obesity, we would prefer that you also are carrying a lot of muscle mass. But it's most important for you to not necessarily gain more muscle, but it's actually to lose the fat if you were open to weight management at that time. Yes, agree. I think that that is accurate and should be foot stomped a bit more, especially when we again find ourselves in these arguments with people. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe the, just to tie it all together, like, why do people care? They're like, well, look, I would never take these drugs personally and I would never recommend them to other folks either because you should just do it through diet and exercise. One, it's better. You know, we don't have this risk of muscle loss. Two, you know, there's no shortcuts in life and you get these better habits, all these sorts of things. How does that strike you? I'm looking at your face right now and it's not really. Because I think that now the threads algorithm just feeds me all of the GLP one rage bait that is out there. And that is what all of the things that you just said are most of the things that I see and I have to disregard rather than engage with because it's just deeply frustrating to hear and to listen to. So the first part of somebody said, I would never take one of those things like, fine, nobody's, you know, you don't have to do it like nobody's forcing you to take it. It's like perfectly okay to not if you don't want to. As far as whether or not you would recommend it to somebody else, I may take some quibbles with that depending on like what is your level of authority? What sort of patients are you advising? What are they coming to you for? Because are you a doctor? Whether you are advising or should be advising on anything is in question here. Because if you are not going to advise their use, I have questions about your ability to interpret data here, right? So if, for example, and this is a post that I have been like kind of drafting and editing in my mind for a long time that has yet to really bear fruit just yet. But let's say that these medicines were much more harmful than beneficial. Let's say that they dissolved all of your muscle mass and did not confer any benefits compared with, you know, quote unquote natural weight loss by regular diet and exercise, things like that. If it had this like net harm effect, we have ample research in randomized trials at this point that should show us those effects. We should see from the multiple different lines of evidence across the numerous different agents, right? That these things are causing harm, that more people are getting hospitalized, more people are falling, fractures, premature death, all sorts of things, and the drugs get pulled from the market. There is not even a signal for that. Now that is not to say that these medicines are completely have no potential harm, that they can be used carelessly, that they don't require monitoring. All of those things are in fact the case, that there are potential downsides that should be weighed against potential benefits for the individual patient. There are dosage adjustments that need to be accounted for. There are monitoring that should be in place, and that is why these things require care by a physician who knows what they're doing with these medications. But those folks are not honest brokers of information or accurate interpreters of the evidence around it. They hear something about muscle, and because maybe their whole world is fitness and muscle, then any effect on muscle that might not be the most favorable thing on earth is catastrophic. Well, fortunately, that's not the case. This is quantifiable. We see improvements in muscle quality. We see improvements in functional status, again, with typical use of these medicines for appropriately selected patients. It is possible to push people's weight loss way too far, but I almost never see that happening. Of course, I work in a practice where we are monitoring and paying attention to people and reassessing them when it comes time for refills and dose adjustments and things like that. But if you take somebody whose BMI is, I don't know, 20, and you put them on a GLP-1 agonist and don't monitor them, and their BMI ends up 16, yeah, you probably didn't select your patient very well, or there was not enough monitoring or something like that. But the idea that we're taking patients with clinical obesity and pushing them into sarcopenia, like left and right, is not happening. I just need to be very clear about that in practice. And so if the argument is that the net harms are exceeding the net benefits, or that's how this math shakes out, the evidence should show it. Otherwise, you are alleging that there is a widespread, multi-center, multi-randomized trial, multi-researcher conspiracy happening to where they are all colluding to generate ample amounts of favorable outcome data across numerous organ systems, numerous disease states, numerous patient populations, numerous countries around the world. It's kind of not super plausible. Well, Rockefeller controls all of this, so that's what happened. Now, the truth about GLP-1 receptor agonist and their ilk is that the way the evidence suggests they provide protection for a lot of different things that seem to be weight independent, or at least have some weight independent effects, especially when it comes to the heart and the kidneys, although there's some more interesting data emerging related to inflammation, potentially some cognitive benefits, and even just longevity, more broadly speaking. So with respect to the heart, the select trial showed that in 17,000 adults with preexisting heart disease but without diabetes, some agglutide reduced major cardiac events by 20%, and here's what's interesting, because if you were like, oh, this is just because of obesity management. Yeah, the benefit appeared almost immediately. Before significant weight loss had occurred, these risk factors had decreased, and there was a direct cardio protective effect, which to me is interesting. What else? Is this just an inflammation thing? Because people say that about statins, too. They're like, well, statins work by decreasing inflammation, not lowering cholesterol. I was like, well, two things can be true. We can be seeing a benefit from obesity reduction and also a benefit from inflammation control or even something else we don't even know what we're looking at. I don't know, how do you view the select trial? Yeah, similarly to other areas we've talked about on this podcast, I'm focused on the outcome, and the outcomes being in a net favorable direction is where I hang my hat. It's a good thing that we see improvement in cardiovascular risk by whatever mechanism here. It would be unsurprising to me if there is a fraction, potentially a large fraction of that mediated by weight-related benefits, but also some that are weight-independent. That is not surprising to me. That would not be a novel sort of thing, as you are alluding to here. One of the other areas where it's really interesting that I'm observing this more and more in my patient population are patients with inflammatory conditions and things like osteoarthritis. Arthritis and psoriatic arthritis and endometriosis and PCOS and things like that who have this kind of generalized inflammatory state and potentially some musculoskeletal aches and pains is improvements in those pains nearly immediately upon initiation of the medicine before substantial weight loss has occurred. To preempt a little bit of a caveat there that I would make to myself is like I'm not priming them to expect improvement in pain or purporting this or putting it forth as a potential treatment for that. It's almost more like an incidental observation that they are not necessarily expecting unless they have been primed elsewhere. It's another interesting thing that suggests that there are likely to be some non-weight-related mechanisms of benefit from these agents. We saw that in the Triumph IV study. That's the phase III clinical trial on retachrytide. It was originally on osteoarthritis and pain scores. We saw a massive reduction there, but also weight loss too. Is this mostly related to the weight loss? Is it mostly related to some other sort of mechanism? Can it be both? Yeah, to your point. Mechanisms interesting fodder for around the campfire at the pub, but ultimately are the outcomes good and what are the risks? There was actually another paper by one of our favorites, a friend of the show, Dr. Speakman. I don't know if you saw this. It was basically a mechanistic study looking at how some aglutide affected chondrocytes. Those were like the cells and the various tissues around the joint. Favorable changes there. Perhaps that is mediating in effect, not just inflammation, not just weight loss, perhaps some actual cell level activity going on there. The idea of cartilage regrowth has been the aspirational goal of orthopedics for decades now. There was a signal that that might actually be happening. I don't actually know how that would happen, but I'm glad there are smart people trying to figure that out. Yeah, well look, if you were a BPC person or a TB-500 peptide person, you'd say, well, that's what these peptides do. It's interesting if true. Where's the data in humans? And then like, oh, it doesn't exist. I'm like, okay, so anyway, we do have this data in humans. Right. Yeah, so maybe just replace the BPC with the terzepotep anyway. So we talked about osteoarthritis. We talked about heart disease. We've mentioned before that there's some good evidence on reducing kidney disease, the flow trial here with some aglotide reduced the risk of major kidney disease by events by 24% in patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease. So you would expect that vulnerable population to see the biggest benefit.  you want to take a stab or a prediction on how this would work on individuals who maybe are at risk for chronic kidney disease? Perhaps they have high blood pressure, for example. Like, medication might help? Yeah, I think that the lower the patient's absolute risk is at baseline, the less likely they are to have benefit, or at least the harder it would be to show it. And so, like, if somebody is at elevated but still low overall absolute risk of developing this, you would have to have a massive study for a really long time to show a substantial improvement in that risk. But it also depends on, like, what does that at risk mean? So if it is, you know, do, you know, if they have a history of high blood pressure, then maybe that's indicative of do they have, you know, some metabolic disease that itself would increase the risk of developing chronic kidney disease? Yeah, I would expect some benefit. It would probably be modest at that stage. It's just easier to show bigger effects in people with bigger levels of risk compared with those with smaller levels of risk. So I would expect that if you had a sufficiently powered trial, you might find a signal, it might not be earth shattering for people who are that early. But I would expect to see one nonetheless. Yeah. And for our longevity maxers or health maxers, if you will, there's actually a new study that recently was published showing that a year of GLP-1 therapy can actually reduce the grim age clock. If you remember back to the biological clock, this is one of the second generation clocks that we were talking about. So actually changes the DNA methylation that is picked up on that test. To the extent, again, that affects outcomes, you know, we need some better mortality data, for example, to really correlate that. But look, it's not nothing. Yeah. That seems pretty interesting to me. Now, and the, and the, and the other thing I would add is again, not a signal for harm, right? Which who knows what the meaning of that potential beneficial signal is, even if it's a false positive and things are neutral, like cool, but we're not seeing signals of harm. And because that's the thing is, you know, in these frustrating conversations that I find myself trying to avoid more and more on the internet, it is often people kind of inappropriately waiting the relative benefits and potential risks of these medicines blowing theoretical or potential risks way out of proportion. While underweighting the potential benefits, mainly by saying that, oh, you could instead just as easily lose this weight through diet and exercise. Like if it were truly that easy, then short, just do it, right? But it is, in fact, not that easy for the vast majority of people who are benefiting from these medicines. Otherwise, intensive lifestyle intervention, we have randomized trials on it. They would have shown, oh, like equivalent success rates, right? In terms of clinically significant weight loss, that's able to be sustained as long as people are sustaining the intervention in the same way. That is not, in fact, what we observe. So, you know, hard to know how to argue with folks in these situations. That's tough. Yeah. We should say it's not all rainbows and roses here. A few different studies have been published recently showing maybe not the effect we were thinking about when it came to these GLP-1 receptor agnes one had to do with that cancer risk reduction. This was a really hot topic maybe like six months ago. It was like, look, we're seeing reduction in risk of all these various different types of cancer. And it's like, well, it's mediated by weight loss is mediated by something else doesn't really pan out outside of the obesity related risk. That seems to be the case right now. That may change in the future, but that was kind of a bummer. Yeah. I don't have a ton of additional thoughts on this outside of I think that proving cancer risk reduction in this type of way, for example, if we do think it's going to be mediated by weight reduction, similarly going to need a really big study and it's probably going to need to run for a really long time to detect the signal. And so that an initial trial was negative doesn't rule out this possibility for me entirely. It makes me less enthusiastic about it, but I still find that potential outcome plausible enough that I think a more strongly powered study or a longer duration study may show it. Now, what would that turn into on the back end? Let's say it did show something. Does that mean that we just put everyone on these medicines under the idea of, hey, if you're just on it for long enough, then it might reduce your risk of cancer. I actually don't see it gaining like a FDA indication for like cancer prevention anytime in the foreseeable future, but rather, again, it may be like another kind of quote unquote off target benefit in people who are otherwise appropriately selected for the use of these medicines. Yeah. And the last sort of bummer here has to do with Alzheimer's, some other neurodegenerative disorders, the evoke trials were recently kind of published, basically showing that the GLP ones did not really slow the progression of established Alzheimer's disease. Now, reducing the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in the first place or other other neurodegenerative conditions, that's a separate thing from actually reducing the risk of progression. So we'll be interested to see how data pans out there. But yeah, look, we're not we're not chilling for big pharma here. We're just here's the data and like do with it what you will. I kind of like your approach to this. It's like, look, you asked me to be your consultant, I'm happy to do that. But ultimately, what we decide to do is your decision. Yeah. And the evoke trials, my recollection of them was that it was actually looking at oral somagglutide, not any of the injectables, and it was using the ribelsus form. So like the older form of oral somagglutide up to 14 milligrams for patients with early Alzheimer's disease. So that I have like kind of multiple issues with that, like in general Alzheimer's like nothing really works for it. We have some medicines that are approved. But yeah, I don't really for established Alzheimer's disease. Yeah, we the older medicines that have been around for a long time, trivial benefit, the newer medicines. I think we talked about some of the monoclonal infusions. I definitely don't love those. I'm not surprised that a like low potency, low efficacy agent like ribelsus didn't have a significant benefit in an exceedingly difficult to treat condition. I reserve some degree of I wouldn't say optimism, but like there's still something to be studied as far as again longer term, more potent agents, longer lead time, maybe for patients who have not yet developed it already, or even potentially more potent agents in people who have then something kind of crummy like oral, the ribelsus form compared with now more, our newer oral wigovi or any of the injectables or the increasingly potent options. But yeah, I'm not, I would never be terribly optimistic about treatment of Alzheimer's disease, at least based on history to date. I don't know that we're likely to crack that nut anytime soon. But yeah. Yeah. So it seems like we've, you know, we've got some good signals in the evidence, but we don't really have any like 30 year trials showing that GLP-1 receptor agonists extend maximum human lifespan. But it does seem like there's something there with respect to health span delay in the onset of disease, particularly in individuals with obesity, are any results or any sort of leads there that are more interesting to you than anything we've discussed so far, something that's coming out? I mean, I think that by far the most prevalent issue that we observe in the population is just this kind of constellation of actually now what's been termed CKM syndrome, like cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome, obesity and its effects on all of these different organs, like instead of, hey, I'm going to put you on medicines for your heart disease and then medicines for your kidney disease and then medicines for your fatty liver disease and then medicines for your diabetes. It's like we have something that is truly attacking like the root of this issue. And so that's where most of my optimism stands as like the biggest and most prevalent health problem leading to preventable morbidity and mortality kind of worldwide at the moment. You know, we've talked about other kind of promising avenues in this space to include some of the ones that to whatever extent you worry about lean mass, they're all looking at these agents that are maybe combined agonists of things that will not only promote fat mass loss, but maybe accretion or gain of lean body mass or muscle mass. So like a jacked medicine, I think that the fitness industry would really lose its mind that kind of thing comes around. But essentially it would turn this into a solved problem if that kind of thing pans out. TBD, we'll see, that's an interesting idea for me. Yeah, yeah, I think I feel pretty confident saying that these are definitely good for longevity in those with obesity, type two diabetes, sleep apnea, particularly if that's a comorbidity and some forms of heart disease, again, especially if they have obesity as a comorbidity. Possibly good for longevity in those without any of those conditions, unclear on evidence, because mainly it hasn't been investigated in just generally healthy population. They're taking these at a whatever dose, let's see what happens. I feel confident that the sarcopenia risk is overstated when appropriately prescribed and monitored. I can think of a use case where things would get dicey thinking about a woman in her early 30s who's trying to lose like five pounds or something, doesn't resistance train, a Pilates princess, getting some research chemicals in a DIY sort of situation, right? And it's like, sure, I don't think she's at risk of quote, sarcopenia, like full, you know, the actual diagnosis, but losing some precious muscle mass, she didn't need to lose or couldn't really afford to lose. But yeah, if you use powerful agents inappropriately, like, I don't know that that was really like a surprise, I guess. Yeah, tools have uses. I mean, that's the bottom line. All right, so that's the story on using GLP ones for longevity. We'll see how the data continues to evolve and change over time, particularly any notable effects that occur independent of weight loss. But there's another pharmacological lever that people often pull to protect the same muscle mass and cardiovascular health as they age, and it's arguably even more controversial. We've spent the segment talking about the potential metabolic downside of aging. And now we need to look at the hormonal decline. Let's shift gears to the latest data on hormone replacement therapy and whether it actually moves the needle on cardiac risk. Now, Austin, there's a massive wave of fear that still surrounds hormone replacement therapy or HRT, especially women, largely driven by a misunderstanding of 20 year old data. You see patients every day who are interested in HRT. Now, are they curious because they heard about this on the news? Well, they removed the black box warning, it's good. And if they are, do they express concerns about heart disease or breast cancer risks? Well, I think you're probably talking about the black box warning that was on vaginal estrogen products. And most patients that I'm coming across are actually not terribly aware of that as a thing, nor is that really informing them seeking it. More often the conversations around systemic kind of menopausal hormone therapy, that would be things like transdermal estradiol or oral forms of estrogen replacement, et cetera, that can provide benefit for a variety of other symptoms compared with local vaginal estrogen therapy, which is beneficial and essentially has no significant risks and can be used safely in pretty much everyone, which is a big reason why that black box warning was appropriately removed. But the concerns around things like heart disease risk, yeah, they go back decades at this point. And I think that if we are to do a, our own treatment of the data around the women's health initiative and the implications that had both at the time and for how we should use these therapies these days, certainly would benefit from its own podcast. But that was definitely a different era using different agents and also in a different context compared with the way that they're more often being used now. So what I mean is literally different formulations of the hormones and also in a population that in general was quite a bit older than a lot of the folks who are interested in pursuing menopausal hormone therapy these days among the women that I tend to see day to day in practice now who are interested in it for a variety of reasons. Now to be clear, the current kind of approved uses or indications of menopausal hormone therapy are only for a handful of things. It includes the vasomotor symptoms, so that's things like hot flashes and night sweats, et cetera. Those include the genitourinary syndrome of menopause, so vaginal atrophy, dryness, pain, recurrent UTIs, things like that. Then osteoporosis prevention or protecting bone health through the menopausal transition and beyond, although that benefit necessitates kind of staying on therapy longer term, which is becoming an increasingly accepted practice. The evidence for benefits beyond those is increasingly slim, even though it is an area of lots of discussion and interest, whether it comes to claims around prevention of cardiovascular disease or prevention of dementia or addressing other symptoms that can be associated with menopause like musculoskeletal aches and pains and improving sleep and mood disturbances. A lot of people claim benefits of these things. I do not push back or challenge them when they report experiencing these things. I more often frame it as people's experience as pretty individual here and as long as it is being done safely, I'm very open to trying menopausal hormone therapy for women who may be going through the menopausal transition, whether in quote-unquote perimenopause or beyond it, as long as it is being done safely. There's a whole set of criteria that we use to assess patients and kind of risk stratify them, determine whether they are candidates for therapy and if they are, which type is the safest because there are a bunch of different types, again, very different from the type that was originally studied a couple decades ago in that original trial. So whether we're using transdermal or gels or creams or patches or orals or vaginal rings or all sorts of other kind of methods of administration, I'm happy to talk about the pros and cons with people individually about those as well as the other kind of complementary hormones that may or may not need to be included as part of their regimen. So in general, it's a hot topic. Lots of people are discussing it. I think that leaning too heavily on data from 20 plus years ago is not wise and fortunately things seem to be evolving at multiple levels with patients in the clinical and among clinicians and even at the level of the FDA, clearly because they're paying attention to this and kind of modifying things as we go. Yeah, it is kind of interesting as you mentioned that 20 something year old women's health initiative. Yeah, it seemed like at the time that it would you increase the risk of blood clots, major cardiac events. That's what the data said. I got the studies are in the show notes, you just pull them up and it'll say right there in the conclusions. And yeah, it seemed like and you can correct me if I'm wrong, when researchers went back and kind of did this like subgroup analysis based on various the certain age ranges in there, they didn't find that signal. In fact, they found like a cardiovascular disease like risk reduction in a certain cohort like women aged 50 to 59. Within 10 years of menopause, so like a 30% lower risk of heart attacks and death if they were in that trial. But that's not what the original data kind of like was how it was reported. Kind of an interesting shift. Do you think more people are going to end up on HRT now that this sort of like reversal? Oh, I think they should. I think that only a tiny fraction of women who are eligible to use menopausal hormone therapy are in fact using it. And there are tons of persistent fears about this. I encounter them regularly in fact had a woman recently who was still quite young in her 40s, but she had for other reasons, had to undergo surgery that removed her ovaries. So she was essentially put into what's called surgical menopause. And that is a situation that absolutely requires hormone replacement afterwards. Otherwise, an extremely high risk of osteoporosis developing. And she presumably because of maybe poor counseling inadequate conversation from the clinician was afraid of getting cancer. So she didn't take the hormones. And then I'm kind of trying to, you know, nudge in the direction of, hey, we got to take a close look at your bone density. And this is something that really ought to be addressed because in a completely other context, I've seen women who are a couple decades older in the hospital setting get admitted for multiple, you know, osteoporotic fractures. And when I take their history, they're like, yeah, I had my ovaries removed in my 30s and nobody ever put me on hormones. And here I am. And I'm like, this was 100% preventable. It's just decades too late. And so we know that there remains a lot of fear, a lot of stigma around the use of these things. It can be tricky to learn because this is not something that I would say that I received exceptionally thorough training in, in internal medicine residency, it's something that I had to kind of go out of my way to acquire additional training, education and experience in being able to use these things safely, and to be able to counsel and discuss these risks on an individual basis. So it takes time and effort, but it is ultimately worthwhile to be able to guide people through this kind of like a major transition in life, mitigate their risk of unpleasant symptoms, and also improve their longer term health outcomes. Yeah, yeah, I also want to know, are you seeing some tie-ins with like the musculoskeletal system? You talked about bone density and risk of fracture and falls and stuff like that, but what about actual just like muscle function? Because the loss of muscle and menopause, it's not a testosterone problem. Estrogen withdrawal, estrogen is like this shield has to have to do with muscle cell, not just atrophy, but also just apoptosis and such. And so are you seeing like a signal there where people who are being placed on HRT, they're having better muscular function and stuff like that, or perhaps they're more apt to go to the gym, anything like that? Yeah, it's hard for me to draw confident conclusions about like a direct causation there. I think that in general, for example, let's say that there's a woman going through the perimenopausal and menopausal transition, and their sleep is just wrecked from like drenching night sweats and hot flashes throughout the day. And they're exhausted during the day, and that impacts motivation to exercise. And certainly if they're able to maybe limits their load tolerance, volume tolerance, intensity, and so maybe, if you address those symptoms and they're able to sleep better, rest better, recover better, then they're like more energized and motivated. And so there's like multiple different ways that you could impact the kind of what we'll call the final common pathway to like muscle hypertrophy and physical performance. And it's really difficult just like, and either anecdotally or on a patient by patient basis to draw confident conclusions from this. So this is something that would just require a larger scale research. And I do not feel like it would be appropriate for me to comment confidently on this. Perhaps that is to our own detriment in the medical podcasting influencer space. Whereas a lot of people would just spit out hot takes about this and say, well, here's what I observe. And then that becomes a source of, yeah, a lot of discussion, debate, interest, whatever, I would not claim confident conclusions there. I think there's a lot of potential plausible mechanisms of benefit, but I'm not sure. Yeah. Well, and it's not just about the ladies, but also there's some stuff on men here, particularly with respect to testosterone deficiency. Now we've talked at length about testosterone deficiency, low testosterone on this podcast, I expect we're going to talk about it more. We got a book that talking about it, like, I can't get away from it. It's not possible. But there's some tie in here between low testosterone, testosterone deficiency, and heart disease risk of major adverse cardiac events. Now we think that for most, low testosterone and again, more appropriately named testosterone deficiency is frequently a symptom of it, the larger picture of what's going on health wise, not necessarily the cause, most notably due to obesity. That's been the biggest change. People talk about like this secular decline in testosterone. It's like, yeah, mostly related to obesity. Now with respect to replacing somebody's testosterone and its effect on cardiovascular health, there's a lot of interesting fodder around that. But when you look at the actual data, it seems like it's mostly neutral with respect to heart attacks and major adverse cardiac events. There's some signal that there's like this maybe metabolic paradox that occurs at the level like with respect to lipids. So like LDL goes down triglycerides go down visceral fat goes down all these risk factors for heart disease, but HDL cholesterol slightly goes down to on with folks who are taking testosterone replacement therapy. And oh, by the way, there's no real outcome data like long term on this. How do you view, you know, testosterone replacement therapy in an individual testosterone deficiency with respect to like cardiovascular disease trajectory? Yeah, I think we should look at the this from a few different angles. One is well, the historical or more traditional perspective would be, oh, this significantly increases risk. And I think that we have increasing data that would challenge that position at this point that again, when it is appropriately used and monitored, that we do not have evidence that it is, you know, causing people to drop from heart attacks left and right, that is fortunately not the case. So that side of the equation or of the curve is reassuring to me. The other side being, well, if it is not causing harm, that's great. But how confident can we be that it is directly leading to benefit? And that is where I am a bit less confident. I think that we have a fair amount of evidence indicating some essentially like neutral effects. We have association type data that is suggestive of benefit, meaning that when they look at kind of an observational way, looking at those who are on testosterone therapy versus who are not, those who are on might have lower cardiovascular risk, but that is not nearly enough or strong enough data to conclude that the testosterone therapy itself is what is lowering their risk. There is still all sorts of both measured and unmeasured kind of biases in those types of data sets to where the people who are put on are fundamentally different from those who are not. And that could lead to a big part of those differences. So we do not yet have what I would call a strong perspective like randomized trial showing that like putting men with testosterone deficiency on testosterone therapy like directly leads to a reduction in their risk of having incident cardiovascular events or cardiovascular death. If we had that, that would be earth shattering. That would be a pretty big deal, but we do not have that at this point. So that caveats or is kind of how I couch the conversation, I think that to your point in the developed world, if we want to call it that, the vast majority of situations where we see testosterone deficiency tend to be in association with metabolic disease. And so we also see that addressing that metabolic disease by way of lifestyle measures through GLP-1 receptor agonists, through metabolic bariatric surgery, we tend to see improvements in blood testosterone levels when people lose weight through whatever means. Whether that is enough to fully resolve their testosterone deficiency is variable. Some people will normalize their testosterone levels, others will not. And for those who do not, who may have clinical symptoms that still are suggestive of testosterone deficiency, totally reasonable and in general, quite safe unless they have some other contraindication that hasn't been brought up yet, to try them on a course of testosterone therapy. And it does not necessarily need to be, oh, if I give you your first dose, you are on this for the rest of your life. It is actually okay to trial it, see if they get benefit. And if not, there is a reasonable early timeframe in which you can stop it and not lead to a significant risk of permanent HPG or testicular suppression. And so that's a pretty reasonable, safe approach to take if somebody has maximized the lifestyle levers. And if they've been able to lose as much weight as they're able to through those means or through pharmacologic means, or if maybe they do or don't want to go through metabolic surgery and you want to try it, I would not promote the use of it to say, oh, this is going to be used to lower your heart disease risk because I don't have a ton that I can hang my hat on there. But it can be something that, hey, this can improve your overall quality of life potentially in a similar way to how I have that conversation on menopausal hormone therapy. Any benefits on other stuff like cardiovascular risk are as yet unproven. And so that's kind of how I have that conversation. Yeah, no, well said. So for women, if you're a candidate for hormone therapy, the benefits for like vasomotor symptoms like flushing, bone density, and genital urinary syndrome of menopause likely outweigh the risks, big benefits there for those things. Other cardiovascular health and muscle preservation benefits remain hypothetical, mostly unproven, but interesting. You should consult with a clinician who's familiar with this and who can discuss your specific case. Both the Dr. Barocchis are available for this, link that in the show notes. For men, testosterone deficiency is often a symptom of underlying disease, most commonly obesity, as you mentioned. Addressing overall health may be sufficient to restore testosterone levels to normal. If testosterone replacement therapy TRT is indicated, it seems to improve risk factors related to heart disease, thereby theoretically lowering the risk of having a major cardiac event, though long term data isn't currently available. So TBD. Yeah, we'll see. All right. Before we end this podcast, I want to introduce you to something I thought about this. It's like, look, we're talking about longevity, doctors, Feigenbaum and Barocchi. If you were coming up with a series of markers that you would use for longevity, are you using biological clock, are you using telomere length, are you using high sensitivity, CRP? No, we are not. So I came up with the VITAL 5, the Barbo Medicine VITAL 5. Tell me what you think about this. So at the top, your favorite, blood pressure. Gotta measure blood pressure. It's gotta be within range. And I can't say lower is better because obviously that's not true. Yeah, not entirely true for blood pressure. But I would be very hesitant to be permissive of blood pressure that's elevated above 120 over 80 for most individuals, unless there was a specific reason to kind of permit it to go above that. I'd be pretty aggressive at treating it or managing it, mainly because we think there's like this dose dependent risk, not only how high is it, but for how long is it elevated. So the sooner we can get it under control and the better control that is, the better off the individual. What do you think about that? I think it's a reasonable take when viewed through the lens of this kind of like longevity promotion because there are certainly, you know, situations. I'm thinking about lots of the older folks that I see who are already multi-morbid and in the hospital or who are like, you know, on the very later stages of their life for whom this is like not at all a major consideration. And I'm much more permissive and I don't particularly care if their blood pressure is 130 or 140, sometimes even 150 because it's like, you know, if you're on hospice, then that is not something we, why are we even checking your blood pressure? So that context matters. But through the lens of longevity, if that's the lens we're taking here, then yeah, we know that risk starts to go up as that blood pressure starts to creep up over I think like 115 over 75 or so. That is not to say that necessarily, that necessarily pharmacologically lowering it back down to that level is always going to lead to benefit. But that is just kind of what we observe in a population wide kind of data set. So if you are one of these kind of like maximizers, then yeah, being stringent lower for longer to that threshold would be wiser. Yeah, so that's our first of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. Second thing we're talking about here is Apolipoprotein B or ApoB. I could have just put standard lipid panel, we say non HDL component, but you know, look, if I get to make the list. Yeah, sure. I'm gonna do a better job. So Apolipoprotein B, mainly because this represents your atherogenic load as far as a single test goes, you can do that. And it's similar to blood pressures, another dose dependent relationship between this risk factor and cardiovascular disease. The higher it is and the longer it is elevated for, we think that incurs more risk. Now this is a probability based thing. We think that if we lower it, generally speaking, lower is better unless you've developed a medical condition that lowers it for you, in which case that is more problematic. But generally speaking, lower is better. And this would be another part of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. What do you think about that? Also fair and similarly, the context of lowering matters and how aggressive you choose to be is a very individual decision in terms of maximizing lifestyle stuff versus the use of single agent pharmacology, multiple agent pharmacology, and should also be couched in the context of your overall risk. You could have also made an argument, of course, as many people may to include a lipoprotein little a here. I'm also in agreement with you of not including it here if we're just being limited to five. For several reasons, the ApoB particle burden in our bloodstream drastically outnumbers the number of lipoprotein little a particles that we have. The numbers are just so much higher of ApoB. And that is currently the focus of therapy. As we mentioned, I think on a recent podcast, we actually don't even have the randomized trials yet on lipoprotein little a lowering therapies. And so that remains an unproven thing. Once that is proven one way or the other, then we'll have more to say on that topic. But I agree with excluding that for now. All right. So we've got blood pressure, got ApoLipoprotein B first two, they're not in any particular order. But number three is VO2 max. I think, look, if you're going to go through the trouble of getting things measured and you want sort of actionable insights on what's next, I think having a VO2 max is a reasonable test to be done. Now, whether you do it in a lab, you know, hooked up to a metabolic cart, or you just do a one and a half mile run or the 12 minute Cooper test or whatever, all of those things would be fine to get you in the right ballpark to see, Hey, do I have an average VO2 max? Is it below average? Or is it nearing elite? And we would try to push people who are able to to get closer to elite because we think there are continued benefits above just doing the exercise, just meeting the guidelines, going beyond that and making sure that you're achieving the actual elite level fitness relative to health. As far as that's possible for a person, what do you think about that? Yeah, I would just pick a performance test if it were me, but I'm more of a pragmatist in this than somebody who wants very specific data points like a proper VO2 max measurement. And so I would say if you want to pick your performance test of choice among those you listed and try to PR that, then go for it. Sounds great. Yeah, it moves us on to our fourth factor here on the Barbell Medicine Vital 5, relative strength. If we've hemmed and hawed about absolute strength levels, like, do we care about your absolute grip strength? Maybe it's relative grip strength. Do we care about your absolute leg press one rep max? Or should it be relative like a body weight multiplier? And I think we just need a good sort of test for your musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems being integrated together in a functional way, some sort of functional test. I don't think a sit to stand test is going to be useful enough for a young healthy, you know, otherwise healthy population who's interested in longevity, right? And I further, I think that test just  generally speaking, is not as predictive as we'd want it to be, as far, with like, for an intervention point. It's not a great screening tool. It's like, you can identify folks who already have sarcopenia, for example, or poor function, but it's like, the change in very, maybe small changes over time, less noticeable until it becomes, you know, frank and avert, and at that point, you might not have even needed the test. So what do you think about this? Yeah, I think it's a late indicator. I mean, there are other examples of this in medicine. Like, ahemoglobin A1c, for example, is a late indicator of insulin resistance. By the time that that gets up over the threshold to diagnose diabetes, the insulin resistance has been present for over a decade in most people. And there are other potentially more sensitive metrics to catch this earlier on, that, you know, we'll probably discuss at another time, but this would be an example of that. By the time the CITDA stand is abnormal, yeah, that's a late stage indicator, compared with other potential tools. Yep, all right, so that's the first four of the Barbell Medicine Vital 5. And the last one, this may be surprising to you. But I needed something for body composition. Didn't feel like BMI fit the bill. I didn't think that waist circumference fit the bill. And it's like, can we just put these things together and have like a joint metric? Oh, that does exist. And we call it the body roundness index. Now look, the name needs work. To be clear, needs to be workshopped, change it, right? Not if anybody wants to have their body roundness index assessed. Might be more inflammatory than just, than BMI generally speaking, but like some decent data available on this, so far not as much as I'd want. But I think reasonably it tells people, are you at risk based on your, not only the amount of body fat that you're carrying, but where it's located. And that's really what I want here. Does that strike you as totally, like look, you should have picked something else. Is this stupid or anything? I think it's a reasonable argument. And you also preempted somebody who might have said, well, why don't I just go get my body fat percent tested? Because the distribution is something that you actually care about and want to have captured in your metric. But I think that's a reasonable choice. If you can get an MRI or a CT that can otherwise tell you how much visceral adipose tissue you have, and you were okay in the case of a CT with Billen being exposed to those receivers of radiation, more power to you. But I'm like, we could just do this based on measurements and get close enough. Yeah, no, I think that that's fair. The only thing that I see, you know, that you might want to think about some sort of assessment for which I'm not the expert to provide that would be some metric of like psychosocial health and functioning. How many friends do you have? Exactly. What was the last time you went outside? Yeah, look, we're starting o'clock, 60 seconds, name as many friends you could call right now, they pick up their phone. Yeah. And there's some sort of mark. Yeah, and interestingly, this is probably bad for business, but like the total cost on these tests, on APO, like for protein B is what, like, you know, maybe 75 bucks, 50 bucks. Not even, yeah. So yeah, we're gonna be selling our Barbo Medicine Vital 5 screening test. It's 50 bucks. Yeah, right. Get a blood pressure check, get the lipid check, do a performance test for strength and conditioning, and then body fat assessment. Pretty straightforward, that'll take you quite far in this game, and then have some friends. That's the hard part for some people. Wow, nailed it. Nailed it, love that. All right, well, that is a wrap on the Barbo Medicine Longevity podcast. At least part one, we'll see as stuff comes down the pike, I'm sure we'll get some feedback on this. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me today. Catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbo Medicine podcast. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water.