 and alfalfa. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're tackling a topic that has fundamentally changed the landscape of health, weight management, and chronic disease, the rise of anti-obesity medications, specifically GLP-1 receptor agonists. Now, whether you're an athlete, a health or fitness professional, or just someone trying to navigate your own health, you've heard the names, Ozampic, Wigowi, Monjaro, but the story has evolved rapidly and so has the data. And in this podcast, we'll provide an update on these medications. Are they just for weight loss, or do they also help with other medical conditions? And just what does the data say about efficacy, side effects, and the loss of muscle mass? To help us out, I have two of the best minds in the business. First, the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki, and obesity medicine expert, Dr. Spencer Ndolski. Welcome to the show, guys. Dr. Austin Baraki Am I the third? Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum I don't know. I just assumed that everybody that we ever have on the podcast is in the top 10. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Okay. I'll take top 10. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Dr. Justin Marchegiani I'll take what I can get honestly. Dr. Justin Marchegiani No, that's just– yeah, for sure. But, you know, people are like, are you– Jordan, do you– are you the most handsome? I'm like, no, no, no. This is an inside joke. And if you're a long-time listener of the show, you know who's the most handsome doctor in North America. But anyway, uh, Dr. Baraki, what's going on, man? Dr. Jordan Baraki Hey, I'm doing okay. I'm glad to have Spencer here to cover this topic. I'm attending on the wards in the hospital at the moment, but uh, able to sneak away and set some time aside for this conversation. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. And then if you guys don't know who Dr. Spencer Ndolski is, he's been on the show– I think you've been on our podcast a few times. We've been on your podcast. We actually met when I was in medical school in Virginia. I believe you were in residency at the same time. Yeah. Shout out to your– Dr. Justin Marchegiani Jordan drove up in his M4 while he's in med school. And I was like, Jesus Christ, I don't– I'm resident. I'm freaking poor. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Well, yeah, that barbell medicine money, you know. Dr. Justin Marchegiani That bar– that bar– that bar– big barbell. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Uh, can you– before we pop into this, we do have a lot of questions and a lot of stuff to get to. But real quick, Spencer, can you give people just a rundown who may not be familiar with you, uh, what your background is and what you're doing now? Dr. Spencer Ndolski Yeah. Very quickly, NCAA athlete. I was a heavyweight wrestler, uh, UNC Chapel Hill. Actually, went to Michigan State to play football. I wrestled there as well. Ended up transferring, trying to do both. Realized I wasn't Bo Jackson. Had to pick one sport. Ended up going with wrestling. Then went to med school, went to Virginia College of Oceopathic Medicine at the time. That's what it was called. It's now Edward Viya, something– Virginia College. Went to family medicine residency at VCU in Newport News in Virginia. After residency, 2014, that's when I met you, uh, Jordan. Um, then I specialized into obesity medicine and lipidology. Really interested in innovating, uh, delivery care models. And so, you know, we all work together at a startup called SteadyMD. Very quickly started doing all sorts of other stuff and, uh, made a company called, uh, Sequence, which was bought by Weight Watchers. I then left Weight Watchers to recreate a new company, kind of an evolution, uh, online, cardio metabolic, um, direct care model practice, uh, called Vineyard. So that's the gist, really. And, you know, we have a podcast called Dox Who Lift. So we're all, we're all meat heads here. A lot of meat, uh, flowing around in this podcast. And then, uh, Dr. Baraki, you're actually starting with Vineyard. You're going to be taking some online patients starting in December, I believe. Is this the big, is this breaking news? This is breaking news. Yeah, I suppose it is breaking news. I mean, yeah. So Spencer and I have known each other for a while in the telemedicine space, worked together for, for a while in the past at SteadyMD. And I've been doing telemedicine, I guess since 2017 or so, um, maintained a panel of primary care patients, was doing essentially full scope primary care, metabolic, uh, you know, health management, cardiovascular risk management, things like that. So this is something that I've been doing for a while, but I think, uh, am intending to expand given that there's a lot of need out there for it. And Spencer is certainly a leader in this space and, and we're in this shared communal space of, uh, Dox Who, Who Lift who are interested in this topic. And so, um, yeah, felt like a natural next step to, uh, expand my existing practice in a way that, uh, is well supported by the organization that Spencer set up. And I'd be happy to have him speak a little bit about how he has it set up and, and, uh, you know, what, what we're doing there. Yeah. I'll now be not the strongest doctor at my, my own clinic. Yeah. So the, the concept is, so everybody knows about, we're going to talk about these GLP-1 receptor agonists and just the, the field of this, it's kind of cardiometabolic medicine. I would call it's not the old kind of obesity weight loss doctor, just focusing on the scale and pounds lost where, and if you, obviously people follow the barbell medicine, uh, discussions where talking about lipid management, probably a lot of blood pressure management, glycemic management, it's really this concept of cardiometabolic. So not just pounds loss, those translate into a lot of cardiometabolic improvements, but you really gotta think of this person and their contacts and their comorbidities. So like if they have cardiovascular disease, what if they have liver disease, all sorts of these different angles and it might, it's going to require, uh, smart people like Dr. Baraki to think through who are the right candidates for each of these types of medicines. So that's what we're doing. We really think of it as like a, uh, I hate to use the cliche term of holistic care, but really holistic cardiometabolic care that focuses on obesity, but really wraparound care online. That's great. Yeah. We'll put, uh, links to that. If you want to work with Dr. Baraki, if you want to check out Vineyard, we'll put that in the show notes. Let's get into this podcast. We'll start, uh, a little bit, I take a step back. So before we get to the drugs, Dr. Baraki, can you quickly explain what GLP-1 actually is and how it influences our body's function, especially appetite and like feeding behaviors? Yeah, that's a super huge question. And we're going to keep this discussion, you know, this part of it, the basic science side, I think a little bit high level. So GLP-1, you could think of as a hormone. These are little peptide molecules that our body secretes from one area of the body, end up traveling through the bloodstream and having effects on distant organs and sometimes on more nearby organs. And so GLP-1 or glucagon like peptide-1 is a hormone that is released from the cells of our intestines, usually after food ingestion. It has a few different effects on increasing the secretion of insulin from the pancreas, decreasing secretion of glucagon, slows down gastric emptying. But also we found that these receptors are pretty widely distributed throughout the body and all sorts of tissues and including in the brain. And this is part of how we think that they have a role on impacting and regulating things like appetite and feeding behaviors and things like that. But that they are so widely distributed leads to a lot of the other kind of potential benefits and some of the potential downsides that we'll end up talking about a little bit later. And I think that that's probably about as sufficient of a level of depth as we need for now. Anything important you would add there, Spencer? No, I think that's great. Have you ever talked about like the incretin effect? I think people might be interested in in that effect. So the incretin effect, what these drugs are, 50s or 60s, they injected glucose into people's veins versus having people ingest glucose. And like, I don't know, it makes sense that if you injected glucose straight to the veins, the glucose gets to your pancreas quicker. There's a bigger release of insulin as opposed to kind of this delayed increase in glucose in your serum. But what they found out is that people that drank the glucose had a larger insulin response area under the curve, total amount of insulin release. And so they call it this incretin effect. They didn't know what the hormones were. They some intestinal secretion of a hormone. So incretin, they were like, all right, incretin, then it wasn't until later, they found the various incretins out there. And so the GLP one was obviously the one that they started going towards for big pharma, some cool history there. But yeah, that's the only thing I would add. It's just a really interesting story of how they discovered this. Yeah, between that and Gila monsters, there's a really interesting background here, but for another podcast. So to Dr. Ndolsky, this is something I've seen you talk about. And people certainly are going to ask about it. You know, hear about natures, ozempic or like natural ways to boost this GLP one hormone that Dr. Baraki just described. Do we actually need drugs for this? Like, do we need pharmacological doses to actually get an effect here? Yeah, so this kind of goes back to the history of this whole figuring out for big pharma, how they how they tried to develop these drugs. We have an enzyme called DPP for dipeptyl peptidase for its breaks down our own natural incretins or in GLP one being one of them. So he breaks down within a minute or two. So even if we increase our own natural GLP one, it doesn't necessarily have the effect on appetite that we'd see with these receptor agonists. We do actually have an I don't know if you've talked about in the podcast drugs that inhibit our own DPP for so like citagliptin if people have heard of that or genuvia if you know the brand name. And those can increase our own natural GLP one by like two to three fold. But we see glycemic benefits like blood sugar benefits but not really weight loss or appetite differences. So we can just briefly chat about the Gila the Gila monster. I don't know if it's Gila or Gila. It's like a GIF or GIF. You know, it doesn't really matter. The little lizards out in the desert that they were studying them for there's a few reasons why but they thought it might have something to do with blood sugar and serendipitously they found that the venom was like similar to our own there was a part of it that was similar to our own GLP one but it was resistant to breaking down by our DPP for so I was like how the first drug by Eta came out or exanityde and later they've developed these GLP one receptor agonists to basically be resistant to our own G our own DPP for so nature's so nature's ozepic. I just did a video response video. There's an internal medicine doctor saying you got to eat more fiber and take probiotics to increase your own GLP one. That's how ozepic works and it's like no these drugs are their own agonists. They are analogs. They're synthetic versions that are not broken down by our own natural enzymes the DPP for and that's what makes them so powerful because then they can stick around longer and hit the receptors differently and actually get to the brain to have those appetite effects. Even if we increase our own natural GLP one there may be some glycemic benefit but we're not going to see much of an appetite difference. Yeah. Yeah. I've talked about a few times that like yeah you can increase your own GLP one a bunch of different ways. Unfortunately it's usually not large enough and it's not long enough lasting to have the same effects as these medications so anybody's trying to sell you a GLP one supplement you know or like a way to increase your own GLP one. Yeah you can just ignore them. That's basically a good takeaway there. All right back to Baraki. Now the science is moving quickly here so can you walk us briefly through the evolution of these medications from you know first short acting injectables. I think you had to do them twice a day to now we have agents that hit multiple receptors like tersepotide and even some new oral stuff that's coming down the pipeline. Can you talk about this? Yeah I think a brief overview will be helpful and it's been really interesting and fun. I think Dr. Nodolski probably shares this because the period during which we went through most of our medical training exactly overlapped with a lot of the development and dissemination and uptake of these medicines. Like I vividly remember being in the endocrine clinic the first time I ever heard of the name Ozympic and I didn't not have anywhere near the appreciation for what it was going to become or turn into at that moment in time. I was like oh this is just another new medicine like like any others whereas you know at the time we were still you know still prescribing these DPP4 inhibitors like Cetaglipton all the time even though I recognize like this doesn't really work that well but it's kind of what we have for this particular you know situation where the patient wants an oral pill or something like that. But anyway so yeah we had the original discovery of endogenous or like natural the GLP that our that our body makes on its own that only lasts again for a minute or two before it's broken down. And if I had to summarize the overall evolution of this class of medicines it's been kind of engineering the molecules to do a few different things. One to make them last longer so going from as you said Exanitide the first one was a twice a day injection which didn't even really work all that well extending it from twice a day to once a day with medicines like Leraglutide that came and was approved in 2010 whereas Exanitide was approved in 2005. I just point out the years so that people who question do we have enough experience with these medicines they have been around now for a couple decades. So longer duration of action from twice a day to once a day to once a week with medicines like Bigerion or Ozenpic, Dulaglutide and some of the most recent ones are all once a week in general and then we have upcoming ones in the pipeline that are going to be once a month potentially longer which will come with their own pros and cons to have drugs that act that long in duration. The other general trend that has happened with engineering of these peptides and these molecules is that they have increasing potency so they achieve more of the effects that we're looking for so more potency in terms of better weight loss effects and better glycemic effects in terms of blood sugar and diabetes control among others and then the last aspect of the engineering that's important is less undesirable side effects so better tolerability. So these medicines over the years going from that first generation back in 2005 to the next generation around 2010 of Leraglutide, Victosa, Saksenda, things like that to the 2018 Sumaglutide Ozenpic, Wegovi and then most recently drugs like Terzepotide, Zepbound for example and then most recently the ones that are kind of in the pipeline we're anticipating probably within the next year or so is going to be some of the oral medicines and then some of the even more potent what we'll call multi-agonists or triagonists like Rutatrutide however that is exactly going to be pronounced and all these just in general tend to gradually last longer, more potent good stuff and less bad stuff or better tolerability I would summarize as the evolution of these medicines over the past 20 years or so. Yeah that's a good summary and things are moving quickly and it almost seems like daily or weekly that oh look a new phase two or phase something trial comes out and this one is oral and you can only have to take it every so often which ultimately I think people are going to prefer more than the injections but cross that bridge when we come to it. Last thing before we start getting into some of the clinical data that has emerged recently on how effective these things are is this concept of food noise this is all over social media mainstream media has picked it up as well. Dr. Ndolsky can you talk about this concept of food noise like what is it and how does it relate to this topic? Yeah you know so it wasn't really it didn't really come out until these medicines so much there there was this concept of it and it's always kind of been a thing probably an evolutionary thing because we got to seek out food and think about food to survive but somewhere along the ways it's likely related to our dysregulated appetites and why we struggle with helping people lose weight and keep it off and people just thinking about food. Now when people are trying to articulate I've asked I don't know how many hundreds of patients about like how would you describe it and what they describe it's not a craving so cravings are usually something specific so like after dinner I really want some chocolate or potato chips or whatever something very specific it's not hunger everybody knows what hunger is you've gone all day and you're like oh my gosh my belly is kind of I need to put something into it cravings you know we want the dessert or whatever food noise is really just it's this relentless thinking thoughts about food so what they'll describe is that it's not it could be something healthy it could be something not healthy it just in general thinking about is there going to be enough to eat at dinner am I going to go get seconds is there going to be dessert afterwards and it's not something specific about it is is what about the next day it's all it's like and it's constant they could have just eaten and they still are thinking about food they could be just stuffed and like completely satiated but like still thinking about food and so this is a it's a completely different concept to people and they didn't realize they had it until they started taking the medicine like for example a patient said yeah I was able to enjoy my meal out with my wife because I wasn't thinking about whether my dinner was going to have enough in it I wasn't thinking about the bread that was not here yet it was just like they just actually enjoyed like they they could actually think and this is maybe why some people feel like they they have like less anxiety overall like they feel like they have more brain power to put towards things that matter more in their life as opposed to just always thinking about food really interesting concept and you know there's some new validated questionnaires but in general I just I just asked my patients like you think of I mean do you think about food when you're not hungry yes and and you just it's you can just ask them almost subjectively to talk about it yeah there's like a running joke in like like amongst bodybuilder like physique type focus but people that are like yeah look I'm eating one meal and then I'm actually thinking about the next meal and on some of it it is it's kind of humorous because like yeah we're we're losing weight and so it's almost like an expected part of the journey but but for them it's not it's it's transient like context specific because they're actively trying to lose weight to get very very lean for a show or something like that and then also it's not like they don't perseverate on this indefinitely whereas I do I do tend to agree that people who have this maybe aren't even aware that it is a separate entity that's going on until it's gone and they're like what was that that I was always I was always thinking about food one way or another and again not something specific or not like I'm actually hungry but just you know preoccupied yeah with food and then when it's gone they're like huh it's quiet the noise is gone it's it's it's really interesting so yeah that's just there's some there's a Travis Masterson there's a few of these uh uh psychiatry psychology neurobiologists kind of looking into the mechanisms of it all as it's been studied before for eating disorder type behavior kind of ruminating and thinking about food a lot but like it shouldn't happen in obesity constantly they yeah they have enough energy stores so to me it's something pathologic yeah yeah that's the thing you would expect that if a person has expanded energy stores they've they've developed excess body fat excess adiposity we'll call that obesity that the body would subsequently compensate by reducing energy intake and reducing food seeking behaviors and maybe even increasing activity to sort of maintain a normal and ideally healthy for reproductive fitness in the future level of body fat but that's not what seems to happen in the modern food environment so anyway we could do another podcast on that but let's transition to some of this clinical efficacy data we've talked about some of the basic science here and kind of how they work by targeting appetite and and and you know the transit of stuff through the the gut but how well do they work so this is to Dr. Baraki so Dr. Baraki, semaglotide or wigobi was studied in a series of studies known as the step and sustain trials those are just acronyms among others what were the main findings of these studies in terms of obesity yeah really encouraging findings overall without getting again too far into the weeds of the statistics and minor you know variations in data between the individual studies because each of these were kind of big collections of a series of studies run looking at slightly different outcomes along the way in general showed excellent effectiveness of these medicines good potency on average you'll hear a lot of kind of average weight loss data cited in these which is just one metric of efficacy that you can look at so on average about 15% weight loss when these drugs were you know studied over about 68 weeks or so compared to placebo at least in the earlier studies as well as the kind of what you would expect to see in terms of reductions in waist measurement reductions in blood pressure reductions in blood sugar hemoglobin A1c things like that again some variation around those numbers but that's kind of like in a commonly cited average weight loss figure but the other useful metric that I like to look at is proportions of patients who achieve the goals that we're looking for right so it's not just what's the average amount of weight loss because there's going to be a distribution around that but there's going to be a distribution around any intervention so if it's a weight loss intervention that's not related to the use of medicines just lifestyle diet exercise some other weight loss related medicine when we talk about what is deemed quote significant weight loss at least for health outcomes what used to be maybe around five percent in some situations you'll hear people quote a little bit higher maybe seven and a half percent for some medical conditions it's actually even more beneficial to get larger amounts of weight loss what proportion of patients are achieving that level of weight loss if they were to get placebo over that course of time compared with if they get the medicine over that course of time and when I recently pulled some of this data together across a variety of these semaglotide studies and looked at well what proportion of patients achieved greater than five percent weight loss when they were on placebo which was about 30 percent which is actually a little bit higher than I would expect and the higher than we tend to see in practice but about 86 percent achieved achieved it on the medicine and so we can see that it shifts dramatically like if you imagine a bell curve of people's responses to these interventions it shifts that whole curve of more people are achieving the target regardless of what the average amount of weight loss is but we're getting more people the outcome that we're looking for which then translates into a lot more downstream benefits on health which is the main thing that we're talking about here so that's my overall take on this maglotide data yeah not only like a big effect so like just in general greater amount of weight loss so people achieving that clinically significant weight loss that they go beyond that but a greater proportion of folks make it there too compared to lifestyle alone so yeah exactly big big effects here uh Spencer Terzeppetide or Zepp bound Manjaro has been studied in the surmount trials and what were the findings from these studies that you found most compelling and maybe you can contrast those to what we learned from about semaglotide from the previous data yeah somewhere around like 30 or so percent stronger in terms of uh total amount weight loss and you can see the responder data the categorical weight loss is just stronger as well so we see uh just over like a 20 or so 21 total body weight loss over the course of like 72 weeks and so they've done a head to head in one of these studies and showed like it's it's better a little bit better tolerated and anecdotally we noticed that as well so a stronger drug that's better tolerated just a better profile in general we didn't get into like the select trial with the cardiovascular disease reduction with semaglotide but like patients prefer Terzeppetide so we're thinking about 20 21 percent total body weight loss versus like the 15 or so percent total body weight loss with semaglotide high dose semaglotide actually they um we'll probably talk about they did a another study step up they did a very very high dose a week ove semaglotide they got a little bit more like 17 or 18 percent total body weight loss with that but in general even just the lower doses of even five milligrams of Terzeppetide which is the the second lowest dose gets about the same that you would see with 2.4 that the previously highest dose of we gov semaglotide better tolerated it's just um i'm not even paid by lily but yeah yeah i did a novo ad board and i just felt bad because i'm just like like the lily drugs better but like if you can make this cheaper so anyway i like Terzeppetide much better just the data is pretty clear on that yeah it does sound like Terzeppetide is generally superior to semaglotide all else being equal but dr baraki what is this what does the pipeline look like um our triple agonist like retractor tide uh gonna push this even further and like is that what we think the advantage is to Terzeppetide yeah i think so it's interesting to see because i think a general theme in in medicine in a lot of other areas is like when you see a drug or an intervention that has a lot more potency you might in generally expect okay well more effect in general might also come with more adverse effects in general and so seeing the effects of uh i guess bioengineering uh really smart people doing these things to these peptides to achieve simultaneously higher efficacy of the things we want with less adverse effects of the things we don't want is a really unique combination and speaks to the level of uh i don't know expertise and incentives that are at play for them to get this right and so that's what we're seeing with the newer agents like the one you just mentioned what what's being termed a quote unquote triple agonist because it hits multiple different receptors and again setting the details of that basic science aside hitting multiple receptors lets us target multiple different pathways to achieve the effects we want and add on additional beneficial things we've talked about this before for example when we recently did like our blood pressure update and i talked about how a lot of the time when i have a patient who's willing to do it i tend to use multiple lower dose medicines to get the bang for my buck from multiple meds with less side effect risk same thing with lipid or cholesterol lowering therapies using different medicines at lower doses that work in different ways because we know that hitting different pathways that all kind of converge on a similar outcome we can get a lot of effectiveness and by keeping the doses on the lower side if that's feasible for a given patient then we can mitigate and avoid most of the tolerability type of issues and so what we're seeing with these triple agonists and and the the data coming from reticitrite is that it is more potent achieving now into the mid 20s on average like 24 25 percent say weight loss starting to compete with metabolic bariatric surgery efficacy and then also having some seemingly you know unique aspects to it the glucagon receptor that it targets i've seen some discussion that it maybe like increases energy expenditure maybe helps to accelerate you know the resolution of fatty liver disease as a result of that maybe a little bit more lean lean mass sparing which is would be awesome as well and so again i think the level of expertise and incentives at getting this right are leading to just phenomenal development of these things to get all the things we want with less and less of the things we don't want coming out yeah yeah i found this the development pathway super interesting mainly because as you said the incentives it's like oh look if we can make this work better with less side effects yeah we're we're going to do it and it's like wait if big pharma was super evil like that doesn't necessarily seem like the the move there but uh yeah uh it would be interesting to see with if reda gets you know once it gets past all the phase three clinical trials and and there's some better dosing and and monitoring sort of profiles available for that but yeah it's out in the wild people are obviously like using these research chemicals which we're going to talk about shortly not not my favorite thing but we'll talk about that before we get there though dr. nodolsky because of this pipeline is being just kind of pushed to the to the nth degree there are some oral options coming down the the the pipeline and i suspect as i talked about earlier that people are going to prefer an oral option compared to you know self-ejecting or whatever what are you expecting from some of these oral options coming out yeah there are two one two of them that are going to come out uh six to twelve months from now they just actually just put on a fast track for or four or four glipron i used to say or four glipron but it's apparently or four glipron whatever it's a small molecule i suppose a big huge peptide that you have to inject or with the semaglutide um oral you have to put it in this special uh packaging that changes the ph of your stomach to be able to actually not break it down and absorb it which i'll talk about in a second more or for glipron is a small molecule so you can actually uh take it orally with food you don't have to worry about drinking tons of water or anything other medicines interfering that i know of and it has you know around like 10 11 percent total body weight loss we don't have all those cardiovascular uh trial data like we do with the oral semaglutide which i'll talk about in a second but you know somewhere around like a uh 10 11 percent total body weight loss there's it's supposed to be cheaper because it's easier to make because it's just a regular molecule instead of a peptide that needs all this special transporting and things like that so i'm kind of excited to see that because if it's cheaper and uh we'll talk about the prices and stuff about people trying to maintain their weight loss and having to come off the medicine because of price this might be something that would be of use there and hopefully they do cardiovascular i think they're going to do some cardiovascular trials to make sure uh as we've seen before other drugs where we thought we're going to be really good you know in the end there might have been some bad things happening that we just didn't know about and some of the oral drugs oral small molecule GLP-1 drugs that didn't come to the market they found some of these through the phase uh two phase one phase two  linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, phase 3 trials and even further post-market surveillance. So that's or for glip-ron, small molecule, not a large peptide. They can make it easier to make, cheaper to do. They have a ton of it stockpiled that they're ready to launch here. Again, I'm not getting paid by Lily, but it's excited. That's a Lily drug. The other one is high dose oral semagletyte. So we already have this available in the form of a type 2 diabetes branded drug, which is rite balsis. If anybody's heard of that, that's been out for quite a number of years now. Not super popular, popular though. It goes up to 14 milligrams. This new higher dose version, they're going to call, allegedly call it like oral we go via. That's what I've heard through the pipeline, which I don't know. Whatever oral we go via is what they're going to call it. So it's high dose. They actually studied it first at 50 milligrams. That's 50 milligrams. So it's about a 10-fold difference in absorption. I talked to a farm D on my podcast all about it. So they put in 50, but then they found that the 25 worked pretty well. And it's around somewhere around 14, 15% total body weight loss. It's not bad. Not a bad option. And they have that cardiovascular disease data that we can discuss here. But not a bad option, but it is. It has to be packaged in the snack package that allows your stomach to absorb it. Because otherwise, if you take an oral peptide, it gets degraded by your own stomach acids and won't be absorbed, it'll be broken up and everything. So they have to put it in this special thing. You have to take it with a tiny little bit of water in the morning, no food for a while. Now, the question of whether people would prefer it. So what's interesting is my patients almost love the weekly injection. It's because I thought the same thing. Maybe people would love taking just a pill. They love just because the needles are so small. They're teeny tiny and some people are afraid of needles and like, just do it and let's see what happens. And they're like, I didn't even feel anything. So a lot of patients actually love the weekly injection, but I don't know. We'll see. I think really what it comes down to is price. If you can make these things cheaper, that's going to take the cake. Whatever is the most powerful, but then the expense really takes the next. Yeah. Not that anybody's asking me to name drugs, but oral Zempik seems like a way better thing than oral Wigovic. Yeah, look, I'm available. If you guys need me to consult on drug naming, I'm here. All right. Well, look, we've talked about some of the efficacy very, very effective, but there are some cool other benefits to these medications that have been coming out. And I think there is some interesting stuff here. Not only with weight loss associated benefits and things like heart disease, a certain type of cancer and so on and so forth, but also weight independent effects. So like maybe these medications do something on their own to reduce the risk of either disease development or disease progression that's independent of weight loss. So Dr. Nolski, what have trials shown so far in terms of like the impact on heart health or cardiovascular health from these drugs? Yeah. So the semaglutide is the big one that we saw a couple of years ago. Actually, it's pretty much two years ago, the select trial, at least the top line results came out. I believe the full study came out, but select trial was Wigovic and those with a history of obesity and cardiovascular disease and not type two diabetes. So we've seen benefit in the past. My brother always talks about the leader trial with loraglutide. Now that was like, whatever it was, 10 years ago. So that was the first drug to show cardiovascular benefit and those with type two diabetes at high risk, cardiovascular disease. This was the first one that I know of that people did not have type two diabetes, but had a history baseline cardiovascular disease. And what they showed is a reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events. And they've done further analysis to show like, it doesn't look like it's mostly, maybe at least two thirds of it's unrelated or independent of the weight loss. And when you look back at studies, we thought that like around a 10% total body weight loss, whether it's from lifestyle, bariatric surgery would lead to reductions in cardiovascular events. So that's kind of what they were thinking. But now with some of these other drugs, like they've had older GLP one receptor agonists, alboglutide was one of them. There was a, that was for type two diabetes, but people didn't lose any weight, but they still improved their cardiovascular event reduction, like there was improvement there. So there are receptors all over the myocardium, there are receptors in our endothelial tissue, there's, there's receptors changes in our immune system. Something's going on with this GLP one receptor agonism that goes beyond just the weight loss. Of course, we're going to see blood pressure improvements, we're going to see lipid improvements and just overall mass in general, which may be a less strain on the heart. But like there's something else going on just from taking a GLP one receptor agonist. So for the heart, I think that's what's really exciting. We're, we're waiting on. There's appetite data. There's a terseptide study similar, but they're actually doing in like primary prevention as well. I don't know. So I'm sure you've all talked about differences between primary and secondary prevention. So primary would be preventing that first heart attack, secondary is somebody's head heart attack or heart event and you're preventing another one. So the, the terseptide, the surmount MMO they're looking at like, it's going to be really interesting. I think it's going to be positive though and good. Yeah. No, this is just a brief aside. You're hearing Dr. Baraki, Dr. Ndolsky and sometimes myself talk about all these various studies that are very specific to a particular intervention in this case of medication in a particular population to come up with a particular outcome to see if that changes contrast this to mechanistic data in exercise science where it's like, look, if you, you know, fast, then your growth hormone level goes up. Some percentage and people are like, yeah, that'll probably lead to more muscle mass. And it's like, do you know how many steps you've skipped in the middle to get to that point? And in medical research, particularly in, in agents that have a lot of evidence and data behind them, you can feel quite confident in saying, look, if you are in this population, you have a high probability of seeing some level of this effect and it's, you know, relatively well characterized, which I find very reassuring just to like, you know, if you're, if you're advising somebody on taking these medications or to not take these medications or other medications that can all be useful there compared to it's, it's mostly vibes. Like we have like a mechanistic like plausibility, but we don't have like good outcome data or the outcome data we do have is not good. In that case, you're like, I don't even know why we're talking about this, but just a brief aside anyway. Also, I see this on, on threads, there was just, they were talking about this, a very quick tangent. People do this with drugs and doctors. I think it's because they don't understand study design and how to design trials to look at outcomes. So menopausal hormonal therapy, they're saying reduces cardiovascular events. It's like, it's a whole thing. We could do a whole podcast on that. And so Austin and I were going on threads. I saw, I noticed he jumped in and it's just, but it's not just exercise science. It's unfortunately a lot of other places too. Austin and I have, I think turned into Clippy from Microsoft Word, the little guy. So we're like, hi there. What do you think the best direct human evidence is to show that this actually, you know, I enjoy it. I show up in my feed and I always like it because it's always so funny. I'm always like, Oh my gosh. Yeah. You and your brother are, we like, we like seeing your likes because it makes us feel good about what we're doing. So to Austin, you know, what about other major organ diseases like that of the kidney and that of the liver? I know there's evidence coming out here. So what do we know on that front with respect to these anti obesity medications? Yeah. Several years back, there were just a broad policy about medicines that were being looked at for use in diabetes that they were essentially all being required to look at cardiovascular outcomes, these things like heart attacks and strokes and things like that. But interestingly, we're also accumulating evidence in other very, very common organ system diseases. Obviously, as I mentioned, I'm sitting here speaking to you from the hospital where I have a ward full of patients with all of these things, be it cardiovascular issues, heart attack and heart failure, which have been looked at with these medicines as well as various levels, degrees of chronic kidney disease all the way up to dialysis patients. And then my least favorite and the most horrific is advanced liver disease, which is something that we see more and more of these days. So when I went through training, I saw boatloads of, for example, hepatitis C related cirrhosis. Now that we can cure that condition, seeing less and less of that, but much more fatty liver disease that has progressed to steatohepatitis and then cirrhosis as a result and then the complications of that. And so when this has been examined so far, for example, in the flow trial, looked at GLP one agonist and what they called kind of this kidney events to borrow a term from the cardiovascular literature, things like progression of chronic kidney disease or death related to kidney related causes. These medicines are showing benefit in that realm. And then similarly, when we look at, for example, the rates of fatty liver disease or resolution or improvement in fatty liver disease, improvement in inflammatory markers around fatty liver disease, which would all lead to a reduction in the risk of progression to cirrhosis and all of those really horrific complications that I have the pleasure of dealing with in the hospital, the more potent these medicines get, the more benefit we're seeing on fatty liver disease. And that's what I mentioned earlier. The interesting kind of maybe unique aspect of RETA that you mentioned as one that can maybe increase some energy expenditure, maybe has some unique benefits on the liver. Whether or not that ends up panning out and being fully accurate, just a sheer amount of weight loss that these things can induce. Once you get well beyond 7.5 to 10% percent of weight loss, we can see essentially curing of fatty liver disease, which would be great to reduce the burden of chronic liver disease worldwide. So not only heart, but also kidney and liver, like three of the major chronic organ system type of conditions that are often also comorbid. They have led to this development of a new term that they're calling CKM syndrome or cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome that kind of encompasses all of these things. People having heart disease and liver disease from fatty liver and kidney disease as very frequently overlapping in patients. And we have increasingly potent and increasingly well tolerated agents in these in this medication classes that can somehow simultaneously benefit all of them. Not only because they have a shared mechanism, but also because of some of these weight independent effects that Spencer alluded to earlier. Yeah, maybe we can rebrand CKM as type three diabetes so people don't inadvertently refer to that as like dementia, which is definitively not the case. That's another like quack watch red flag. If somebody calls dementia of any kind type three diabetes, just you just block, just block and move on. Yes, right. Before before moving on to some of the side effects we're going to talk about, there is another areas of emerging evidence coming out for everything from like sleep apnea, to addiction, some forms of cancer, so on and so forth. So I'll have both of you weigh in on this. Start with you Spencer. What are some of these areas, these other areas where these medications could be effective based on emerging evidence? Yeah, so obstructive sleep apnea is pretty well established. There's a surmount OSA trial. That's why they've actually made it FDA approved for those with obesity and obstructive sleep apnea. Medicare even allows for it. We see sometimes a resolution in obstructive sleep apnea. People stop needing their CPAPs. It's not all the time. Weight loss doesn't always improve obstructive sleep apnea or resolve it as there can be some anatomical differences. But when you start getting that 10, 15% total body weight loss, we start seeing reductions in the apnic events from obstructive sleep apnea. So pretty good data there. There's another drug called Q-Symia that actually it's not FDA approved for, but it's a fentramine to a pyramid combo. So we do know that a lot of weight loss can result in improvements in obstructive sleep apnea. I do believe most of that is weight dependent. However, some argue there may be some other weight independent effects. It would be hard to tease that out exactly, but kind of interesting there. From addiction, so there is a there's a new another lily. I swear I'm not getting paid by lily, but they you know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, figs make scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus their antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers. They make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet. And they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an ice box. And with the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because figs just dropped a ton of new limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare, if you want to shop for a loved one who is figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at wear figs.com with the code figs RX. That's where figs.com code figs RX. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year is over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards barbomethson coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit, by the way, your accountant will approve and your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not right away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long term health and performance instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to barbomethson.com, choose your plan and at checkout, select flex pay with HSA, FSA, because those dollars were meant to make you healthier and that's exactly what we do. Barbal medicine, evidence based training that pays off, literally. We should get video. You know, honestly, I'm going to text them after this because I have a direct line. Someone's like, look, you guys like you guys got to start putting me on your ad boards. We'll see what happens there. But they're, they're starting to trying to find drugs that are made for alcohol cessation. I had a so funny, so stupid, but I had a viral tick tock a few years ago when I started using a lot of manjarro is it was the type tube diabetes version of Terz epitide. When that first came out, I was using a lot of it off label and people right away were like, wow, this is so weird. I don't really want to drink alcohol. And I was like, really? So I actually published some retrospective data of all of the changes in alcohol intake from our patient population of like tens of thousands of patients kind of kind of cool to see that. So I believe that we're going to see, we're going to see other addictive like behaviors people not biting their nails anymore, maybe even some gambling sex addiction type of stuff, opioid addiction type of things that the drugs have a strong response in the reward center of our brains. And really stuff. So I think we're going to see addictive like behavior improvements there. Other things, so anti inflammatory things. So psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, some of my patients notice, wow, I was on my biologic and it kind of helped me with my psoriatic arthritis, but it wasn't until I started Terz epitide. Again, this is anecdotal. But when you go to Eli Lilly's research page of what they're looking at the trials are doing, they are looking into this. So big farm is not stupid. They're not going to pay good Gillian's amount of dollars to look into some silly anecdote. They're clearly seeing the signal too. So I think we're going to see a lot of really interesting stuff there. I see gynecological improvements. People start having normalized menstrual cycles. There's GLP one receptors on the uterus ovaries and in the hypothalamic pituitary region. I don't know. There's some interesting stuff. So yeah, some of the most interesting stuff I've seen come out has to do with like cancer risk reduction. And it almost seems like, you know, not to get too technical or jargony, you know, pleotropic effects of these medications, they just affecting multiple different areas. Look, if there's a receptor there or like something that these things combine to it seems to have a decent effect. Dr. Baraki, what's your take on this like cancer risk reduction? What's up with that? Yeah, I think that it's really difficult to study in the way it has been studied so far. You know, cancer is a very heterogeneous disease. There's so many different types of cancers they develop by way of so many different types of exposures and things like that. So like looking at acute leukemia, for example, and comparing that to, you know, estrogen sensitive breast cancer, they're like completely different pathologies. And so lumping these things into big buckets and looking at it in an observational way, which also lumps in a whole lot of other, you know, variables that are not being equally distributed in a randomized trial makes it kind of tricky. I find it plausible that there could be some impact on cancer incidents, particularly among the adiposity associated cancers and things like that. But that's something that I would want, I think, higher quality data to try to tease apart to what Spencer mentioned earlier. We already have, for example, some of that insleep apnea. We already have that in osteoarthritis. We're looking or expecting that hopefully coming soon in some of the addiction space. And, you know, I have some concerns around, you know, judicious use of those medicines in the addiction space knowing that, hey, well, a lot of the patients that I see, because I see tons of alcohol related issues in the hospital setting, and I have a few, as we speak, who are not very well nourished, for example. And so then what's going to be the impact? They're not very well muscled. They're not very well nourished. They don't have, you know, high quality diets. They're not exercising. If I induce 20% weight loss in this person whose diet is comprised mostly of alcohol, what's the impact going to be? So there's some thoughts and can sort, which is the lesser harm there, right? And in general, I'm trying to get people to drink less. And I will tend to accept a fair amount of risk in other ways because alcohol is like the most harmful thing that they might be doing. So there are going to be a lot of considerations around all of these areas. I share some of his observations around PCOS. There's also conversations around like maybe neuro protection, dementia risk, things like that, that will also be super interesting because, you know, we've seen cardiovascular disease remains the number one killer, but on a per capita basis, rates of death from cardiovascular disease can have been declining for decades now. We're making a lot of progress there with all the tools that we have at our disposal. Now we seem to have one that's going to be helpful for obesity and the obesity associated comorbidities. The longer we live without dying of things like cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or liver disease, the longer our lifespans extend, it's going to be more and more cancer and more and more neuro degenerative disease. And so if these have a favorable impact on those things, that would be a win on those fronts as well. So super interested to see how it plays out. Yeah, what I'm hearing you say is that if we just take terzepetide or some aglutide and you stack it with creatine, effectively you're going to live forever. 10 grams still. Yeah, no, it's 30 grams. 30 grams. More grams. More grams. All the grams. All the yeah, so many grams. All right, well, let's transition to some of the side effects because with any effective medication, there are no biological free lunches here. There are risks and side effects. So let's discuss some of the common side effects and some of the rare but serious ones. So Spencer, what are the most frequent side effects that people should be prepared for? And how do you go about dealing with them in your practice? Yeah, by far number one is nausea. Very common. We saw this very early on with exanthetide or bietta and all the GLP when receptor agonists. In fact, many of the haters would say, look, people just lose weight because they're nauseous all the time and thrown up, which is plausible, I suppose. If people are, you know, you get sick from a GI bug and you don't want to eat, you lose some weight. And if you feel like that all the time, that can make sense. But when you look at the data, it's pretty clear that the nausea is the highest in the beginning and the longer you've on the medicine, it tends to go away for pretty much everybody. For most people, it's mild to moderate at first. Very once in a while, it's more moderate to severe where you have to intervene with an anti-nausea medicine. We try to minimize it with our diet. I have dietitians and we try to promote kind of a lower fat diet. Now there's reasons why this may be higher fat. You're so like chips, fries, pizza burgers, wings, that type of thing may be increasing that knowledge in the beginning. It could be because the gastric emptying is slowing. So you put more fat in the gut and then it's more having an increase in other things like CCK and other hormones that from the fat intake that can also increase nausea. So potentially, I don't know what, but lower fat diets tend to help minimize this and maybe smaller, maybe more frequent meals. Not the booster metabolism or anything like that, but to help with the nausea. And you don't have to do that long term. It's again, the nausea is high in the beginning. When you look at the trial data, it doesn't matter what trial it is, some aglutide, trazebityde, they show the trial data. It's all picked up in the beginning. And then as the trial goes on, the nausea goes down. Sometimes we have to do Zofran or on Dancitron to help with the nausea. In general, though, most people don't have to do that. So that's, that's number one. I do see a lot of constipation from unlike nausea, it's constant. So you have to get in front of it early. Lots of fiber, lots of fluid, physical activity, the very standard things we do for constipation. Sometimes we add a laxative and or add some fiber supplements and things like that. But constipation is pretty common. Try to get in front of it to minimize that. Reflex, if you're slowing down the gastric emptying in your stomach, there's more of a chance for food and stuff to come back up to esophagus cause reflux. We do see that. So people with a history of reflux, we're like, all right, we got to be careful here, you might get some worsening. Don't stop your mapers or whatever right now. Sometimes they need to add it back in for a little bit. Hopefully over time that improves and generally we see that improve because that gastric emptying is higher in the beginning and then wanes or even goes down a lot at the end of or while you're on the drug longer. We do see diarrhea, usually self limited. Generally, we try to help people bulk up their stools if happy, but it's usually self limited. Sometimes I do pepto, sometimes I do amodium. Generally, something that goes away over time. We see fatigue. A lot of people thought, oh, yeah, you're not eating, you're going to be tired or something about the drug and this likely has to do with the brain effects of the drug, the receptor agonism in the drug. We're talking about the dopamine where people feel like not as addictive, but sometimes it's got a pretty strong effect up there. Almost they feel like like an anhedonia, like just kind of like they feel unmotivated and tired. That happens. Sometimes you got to adjust the dose. Sometimes it's just at the beginning. The fatigue generally goes away by itself though. A lot of people argue over the cause of it, but it's likely in the brain. Some of it maybe because you're not eating as much, but you'll feel it like a couple days after your shot and then it goes away after a few more days. Kind of interesting. Worse side effects, gallstones probably. We see that because of weight loss likely. There may be an effect of GLP-1 on the actual gallbladder and changes in how it's moving. We can see gallstones precipitate, but we see that with any type of weight loss, bariatric surgery. From that, we can see the colostitis or gallbladder attacks rarely, pancreatitis. When you compare placebo to the active drug and these big huge trials, they put them together in a meta-analysis, there doesn't seem to be a statistical difference between the drug and a placebo. Patients like, yeah, it causes pancreatitis. It's not different from placebo. Those are the common things. I don't know if you want to hit, Austin wants to talk about the black box warning of thyroid cancer and all the scary things people talk about, but those are the common things. Yeah, I was going to echo much of what you said. The pancreatitis one is interesting for several reasons because pancreatitis is a relatively common condition. It's something that also just happens to people sometimes. In general, it happens related to alcohol use pretty often. It can happen related to gallstone related causes very often as well. I see it very regularly in the hospital setting. Given that there's a relatively high what we'll call base rate of people experiencing pancreatitis, that also increases the risk of like, well, also there's a high base rate of people getting put on these medicines. There's going to be a scenario where somebody gets put on one of these medicines and because they were just existing, they were going to get pancreatitis anyway. Humans, what we do in our brains is we tend to observe patterns and assume causation between them. Well, I started this medicine and afterwards I got pancreatitis, so it must be that one caused the other. That is a reasonable hypothesis to have, but that's also why we benefit from having controlled trials. That's where this interesting observation comes from in the controlled trials that when we compare people on drug versus on placebo, we don't actually see a significant difference in that pancreatitis risk, even though there is a higher risk of developing gallstones relating to the rapid weight loss. It's like all the signs you would expect there to be a signal, but it doesn't actually lead to the outcome that you would expect, which is, again, why we benefit from these kind of studies and why all three of us get in arguments on threads all the time because people make arguments based on vibes or observations or just assuming patterns exist, whereas when we actually control the data to account for our own flawed assumptions and tendency to draw patterns where none might exist, we actually can get to the truth of the matter. So pancreatitis ends up being something that I don't tend to routinely counsel on because what are you going to do aside from, well, I already advised that you probably shouldn't be drinking very much. We're advising weight loss regardless here, and so there's a risk of gallstone development with rapid weight loss no matter how we go about it, and that's something that we can be attentive to and intervene on if we need to. So that's just an interesting aspect of the data that all the things that you might observe or anecdotally hear or expect based on some of these things don't actually tend to pan out the way that we thought. Yeah, and just lastly, before we get into some of the body composition and performance stuff, Dr. Ndolski, there's been some concern about this non-arturidic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy or NAION, this irreversible eye condition causes partial or complete vision loss in one or both eyes. And this is a major lawsuit against a Novo notice right now, like for that, you see that all over the place. There's a $2 billion lawsuit against the manufacturers because these drugs, who they don't want you to know, they're taking your vision. Does any merit to that? Yeah, notice it's not against Eli Lilly. I'm kidding. Someone from those pharmacies, they're going to come get me. I'm actually friends with a lot of those people. And they're always switching teams all the time. So it doesn't really matter. But it is true. There are some lawsuits out there. It's a rare risk. We had my buddy, an ophthalmologist, retinose specialist on. There was a JAMA article last year that looked at a group of people on somaglutide with type 2 diabetes that showed a maybe a small, maybe one in like 10,000 people increased risk of people on the medicine, maybe an increased risk of this type of blindness. But then more recently this year in Journal of Ophthalmology, they showed maybe a trend towards a decreased risk, at least not statistically significant, just no statistical significant risk compared to people not taking the medicine in a similar population. So if it is a risk and what my friend told me is that we see it from people's blood pressure going down and usually in the middle of the night. I could see it where the medicine, it's just so powerful and people are still on their blood pressure medicine, they may have sleep apnea where they're going apnoic and not getting as much blood flow and oxygen into their blood where there may be maybe there's some sort of risk there. But like the most recent data doesn't show the signal. If it is there, it's extremely rare. It hasn't been seen in any of the weight loss data. It's only in these patients with type 2 diabetes where maybe there's an increased risk anyway. I'm not super concerned, but patients are concerned. I wouldn't want to go blind. So we try to talk about these, try to talk about the data. I would just say, look, the signal is not there in the most recent analysis.  maglutide only, and those with type 2 diabetes. Potentially, maybe there's some plausibility there, but I would just, if it's there, it's extremely rare. Yeah, all right. I feel satisfied there. We can now move on to some of the other risks and potential side effects that would maybe be pertinent to our listenership, because we're talking about gains, talking about body composition and performance. So, Austin, a lot of people talk about the potential risk of losing all of your muscle when you go on these agents. Maybe speak more broadly about, well, look, why is losing lean body mass a problem with weight loss in general, and then what is the long-term consequence of that for health and performance? Yeah, before we get into that, I do think it's worth pointing out, because a lot of these terms can get conflated and definitions can get baked into one another in ways where one audience might hear and interpret this term lean body mass in one way, where it's not necessarily being intended in that exact way. Body composition science is complicated, and I know Spencer will get into this a little bit as well, but what does lean body mass mean? What does fat-free mass mean? What does muscle mass mean? All these things have very specific definitions, and so it's important to be clear on what you're talking about. So the haters, as Spencer referred them, described them earlier, use this kind of terminology, and they seem to imply that these drugs have a unique effect on reducing or impairing your muscle mass in particular. Potentially baking in bone into that as well, and that's a strong claim that would require direct evidence showing that when these medicines are used, that there is a substantially greater degree of specifically muscle mass and or bone mass compared with equivalent amounts of weight loss by other means. When we look at this, we'll get into the specifics of what's observed, but it is a valid concern, just to address your question directly, that if people are losing significant amounts of muscle mass and bone mass, yeah, I would have some concerns about that. I see the end stages of frailty, catechia, people who have severe sarcopenia, osteopenia, osteoporosis, people who fall, they lose their physical independence, they have fractures, they need to go to nursing homes, things like that. I've been seeing that my entire medical career so far in the hospital setting, and it's not like I have seen, for example, over the course of the past decade, oh, gosh, I'm admitting these people left and right for GLP-1 induced osteosarcopenia, and they're all needing to go to nursing homes because they can't stand up out of a chair anymore. And so that's kind of where a strong claim is gonna need some strong evidence to support it, or we need to look at it more directly. So those are some of the reasons why we care about lean body mass, is that risk of long-term musculoskeletal health, physical function, independence, things like that. And so that would be the question, is do we see higher rates of those things specifically being impaired from the use of these medicines compared with, if you lost 15%, 20%, 25%, whatever amount of weight loss through diet, or through metabolic bariatric surgery, do you see that more? Do you see it less? Does it seem to be about the same? Are there ways, if it's a real thing, can we mitigate it? And what exactly are we talking about? Is it muscle? Is it bone? Is it just lean body mass, which includes body water, all sorts of other tissue compartments and things like that, organ mass, stuff like that. So that's kind of my broad take on it. Yeah, just to summarize for the listenership, the claim is, by again, the haters, is that these particular drugs, anti-obesity medications at large, have a unique effect on the skeletal muscle tissue that results in more proportional muscle loss per unit weight loss. And what's widely quoted in literature for just like diet-induced weight loss is that about 75% of the weight you lose is gonna be fat mass and 25% is gonna be not fat mass. And some of that is gonna be actual skeletal muscle fibers, but to Austin's point, some of it's just gonna be other things that aren't muscle, but are also not fat. And so literature then would show you that per pound people lose when they take these medications that more than 25% would be not fat mass that people were losing. So the question to you, Dr. Ndolski, is what do you think about the actual risk of losing skeletal muscle mass in relationship to these drugs? Again, there's been a problem that's been a lot of concern over this on social media, especially in the fitness space. Is this a real risk? Like is that, is this real? Yeah, some history around it really is the Peter Tia, which my brother and I call our podcast, the Peter Tia Hater Podcast, in not because he's generally okay, it's just some hyperbolic statements. He was on the Megan Kelly show a couple of years ago and said that his patient got fatter, quote, fatter on this medicine. They lost more muscle than they did fat. It's kind of interesting, nice anecdote there. But then he has pulled up that the step trials, there was a subgroup analysis, they did a subgroup DEXA of some of these patients that use semaglutide in the step trials, which was the obesity trials with semaglutide, high dose semaglutide. And it looked like somewhere around 38 or 39% fat-free mass loss. So it's kind of like, well, that is more than we'd expect. But Dr. Brachy said, fat-free mass loss isn't necessarily muscle. So when you look at a DEXA scan, and this is why I have a chief science officer, Grant Tinsley, he's literally a body composition expert. He would talk circles around me in terms of how to look at these different compartment models where they look at body composition, because a DEXA scan, they're like, oh yeah, you got your body fat percentage there, but it's because it looks at fat-free mass and fat mass. And so like, pretty much everything that's not fat mass, it's like, oh, they lost this much fat-free mass. But a lot of that includes glycogen. Is the interesting thing when they did these same subgroup analysis in the surmount data, the terzapentide data, it was around 25%. So a stronger drug that resulted in more weight loss actually resulted in about what we would expect amount of fat-free mass loss, which we assume if we're just making assumptions has a similar composition of that fat-free mass loss with muscle. So similar to what we'd see with just dieting alone or bariatric surgery alone. So then the claim would have to be something about somaglotide specifically is extra catabolic beyond its ability to help people lose weight beyond this calorie deficit. And there's nothing biologically plausible to make that accurate. What I personally think is that there's some sort of fluid shift because of the GLP-1 receptors we've, Dr. Baraki talked about the kidneys and the flow trial. I don't know if there's some diuresis effect, there's some fluid shifting, but it's very possible what looks like an increased fat-free mass loss is literally glycogen or fluid changes. That's what I think, because otherwise it doesn't really make sense. And having said that, we are doing studies in our online clinic. So we partnered with Dexafit, Dr. Tinsley is doing all this where he actually looks at lean soft tissue. So trying to nail it down to closer to the muscle tissue. And we did a case series, but we have a whole cohort going on. We don't have the data from that yet. And it looks like if you just lift some weights and we're not talking about like barbell medicine style, you're freaking obsessed with it. Even if you're just kind of like doing like basic two days a week of like what would be recommended and eating sufficient amounts of protein, you're not loading up your each plate with protein and eating a gram per pound of body weight. We're talking like one to 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight, even somewhere around there with just a couple to two to three days a week of resistance trading full body or splits. You pretty much mitigate it all or minimize it all. So I'm not worried. I think it's good that it's brought this whole thing to the forefront, but I think the whole concern is overblown. And I think it's just a reason for what we call weight stigma where it's like, no, we don't want people to lose weight. They reduce their risk of heart attacks. They have less liver disease and kidney disease and fewer strokes, but oh my God, they lost some extra fat free mass in there. So watch out, these drugs are bad. I think it's just people are looking for a smoking gun to say, so you can't get out of the hard work. That's my probably my bias opinion, but just from a clinical standpoint, I'm not concerned. I want people to lift weights and eat protein, but like I'm not concerned if like they don't and they lose this amount of fat free mass percentage wise. Yeah, yeah, two additional points. If you actually look at that subgroup analysis in the STEP trial and you look at the placebo group who was just doing lifestyle stuff alone, they also lost more proportional lean mass than you'd expect. So to me, it almost is like, perhaps there's an artifact of the measurement technique, or at least that's a positive possibility, but even the latest trial, the semilean study where they had folks on max dose semaglutide and then they did dexa scans on all these people. It wasn't 75, 25. It was 80, 20. I was like, ooh, that's interesting. Is there a muscle preservation effect perhaps even? And there's some animal models to support that. I don't think that's true to me. That seems like within the realm of like what's expected, but I just find these concerns about losing so much muscle mass that now you're there, you have sarcopenia because of reduced muscle function from all that muscle loss due to these medications. That seems like an overblown risk compared to the potential benefits everywhere else across the board. Yes, if you have somebody where you have concerns about frailty initially, they're probably not a great candidate for a GLP-1 or other anti-obesity medication, although that does get a little more tricky when you talk about like sarcopenic obesity because that was also assessed in the semilean study where they, 49% of the starting population had sarcopenia as diagnosed by, I think it was hand grip strength and the appendicular skeletal muscle mass. And then at the end of the year, only 33% had it. So it seemed like even though they lost maybe some lean mass, their actual function or muscle quality improved. So I don't know, it seems pretty interesting to me. Yeah, this is just not fundamentally a major concern that I have, I agree with Spencer's take in general and just look at the major outcomes that we care about. And if somebody says, well, the outcome that I care about is my lean mass and I don't actually care about cardiovascular risk and kidney risk and fatty liver risk and diabetes risk and I'm unconcerned with the amount of fat mass the person carries. This is my like myopic focus is just on lean mass. Okay, don't take the drug. Like nobody's worse than I can make it. But every other area of health and like what we'll call hard outcomes, things that we really care about the most seem to be benefited. And if we were seeing, you know, because we know that sarcopenia, for example, on osteopenia and osteoporosis, they increase the risk of certain things. And so if those risks panned out, we would expect to see those signals in the data. I would expect to see, oh gosh, we're seeing way more hip fractures in these patients or we're seeing way more falls or we're seeing, you know, all sorts of things. If that doesn't show up, then this is an unsupp, this remains in the realm of hypothesis, but not something that's gonna impact my clinical decision making. So yeah, I agree. It doesn't take a ton of training and it doesn't actually take a ton of protein to mitigate lean mass loss to the extent it's gonna happen here, especially in under trained or insufficiently active people at the start. And the training is the thing that I emphasize even more than the protein. Like if somebody is willing to do a bit of exercise, I'm gonna put even, not that I'm gonna put less emphasis on protein, but it's not my major lever that I care about, getting people active in general, not just for the lean mass, but for all sorts of other health benefits is my strongest, heaviest emphasis for people. And always has been, even before these drugs ever existed. Yeah, if you looked at an equalizer, like you got a seven band equalizer, and these are all the variables that affect like the proportion of mass compartments that are lost. And so you have things like sleep, protein intake, you have these medication use, whatever. All well and good, all can certainly affect that, but exercise, specifically resistance training is the volume knob. Like that is the main controller here. And so without resistance training, all of these other things are, the effects are so much smaller. And so eventually we're gonna get a study where people are using these agents and actually lifting weights, like no shit, they're actually lifting weights. And then we're gonna see the results. I suspect they'll be very positive. And then at that point, we should follow up with the Tia, with some other folks who've expressed strong concerns about this and be like, what now? There's a study that's, they presented it's not published, it's called the T-Rex study. So funny story with my brother and I with Brad Schoenfeld, if you know who that is, went to Lilly again. I'm like, come on, I'm the biggest Lilly lover, but they decided to go with a different study team. Apparently they probably, probably a good choice. They're like, who the hell is this guy on podcast? He doesn't know what the hell he's doing. They chose a different team, but they showed it. I saw the slides from the conference where they showed a decrease compared to, I believe the standard of care group, a decrease in fat free mass loss. So as we'd expect, and so it was pretty, they cut it in half. And that's kind of what I'm seeing. I'm seeing cutting in half versus like none at all when people are lifting weights. So pretty cool. Yeah, so again, what I'm hearing you say is that if you take tersepati, put creatine, plus resistance training and a little bit of TRT, it's basically a PED cocktail. Is that what we're talking about here? Yeah, and I mean, I'm sure you have talked about all the Myostatin inhibitors yet on podcast. I mean, they're studying it. The thing is, it might be overblown. Like we're, of course, barbell medicine, I'm obsessed with muscle and that type of thing. Is it possible that we're overstating the benefits? We don't want people to get frail, but like is it possible that we're overemphasizing it? I don't know, we'll see, because if people live longer and live better with these Myostatin inhibitor drugs, then everybody's gonna be jacked, ripped, and just like it's gonna be an interesting time. I don't know. Yeah, just walk around and at that point, at that point we will have to reject BMI. There'll just be too many jacked people just walking around and we're like, all right, well, we need another scale here. So. Yeah, like forget BMI. I mean, yeah, actually that was a big part of the conference and not another tangent, but like going way past the BMI at this point, I'm sure you've talked about this, but we know that the BMI is actually, it does a decent job. We're not everybody's a NFL linebacker. Most people are not NFL linebacker walking into the clinic. Not everybody's Jordan and Austin walking into the clinic. And if they were, I would look at them and be like, cares what their BMI is. Somebody should do that, but pretty cool that we are looking at body composition. I think it's important. Yeah. All right, well, let's wrap this up with maybe one of the more controversial parts of this podcast. We save it for last because if people tuned out, then they won't send us hate mail. How hard is it to get these medications? You know, we've got some new government policies potentially coming down the pike. It's gonna make these more accessible, but to you Spencer, what is the biggest hurdle for people to like gain access and maintain access to these sort of medications? Yeah, it's costs. The costs are ridiculous. You see it over here in the United States. There's these middlemen, these pharmacy benefit managers, and because it rebates in the way they structure it, and with the manufacturers and go to the insurances and the pharmacies, instead of being like 500, 600 bucks net price, they see this list price of $1,200 at the pharmacy, 20 to 30% of commercial insurances approve it. Actually, it's probably gonna go down here because of the cost of these medicines. So that is probably the biggest thing we see. We're gonna see that improved over this next few years, though, they just announced lowering the prices. If you go directly with the manufacturer, there's some new prices with Medicare that we weren't seeing before that just were announced. So price, by far price, it used to be, well, price and then access, there's a lot of weight stigma, but now everybody's asking about them. Primary care doctors are feeling more comfortable with them. So the access isn't as big of a deal with finding a doctor who's comfortable doing it. It's really the cost. And I think we're gonna see in five to 10 years, just the prices are gonna be very low, but it's not so much right now. What is the role of vineyard? How does vineyard fit into all of this for access and maybe making sure that people are getting the lowest available cost? Is that something that vineyard does? So our big thing is like, look, because primary care offices aren't equipped with prior authorization specialists, they don't even, I mean, we get referrals from primary care because the back office simply cannot handle the amount of prior authorization. So everybody knows what that is. You're basically asking insurance permission, can I write this drug that I recommend for my patient? And you have to jump through these hoops of answering all these questions. They make it tougher and tougher because they don't wanna pay. And so I was like, all right, this is one of the biggest pain points. I have to hire a prior authorization specialist to handhold the process of going through that. So that's one thing. Obviously we're specialists in the field to where like we know the dosing better, we know the interactions and how to adjust other medications with losing weight. We're gonna focus on resistance training. We have dieticians to minimize side effects and optimize your whole journey. So that's the big thing. We're gonna try to get at the lowest cost possible for you, but we're also gonna handhold you through the process to make sure your side effects are minimized, your body composition is optimized and you just have the best time. And you can chat with us online texting us as opposed to waiting the whole month to go see your primary care doctor. That's just, it's very quick replies, but also expertise is unparalleled. This is actually a little tangent to that topic about cost. And the way I view it and the way I kind of explain it is that you have these, not only brand name, but just prescription medications. And those are the highest cost tier. And then you have compounded versions, which you still need into prescription to obtain, but much lower cost. And then you have research chemicals, which are even lower cost and you don't need a prescription for. How do you kind of view the risk benefit analysis across that continuum? And do you have these conversations regularly with patients because they're like, look, I like what you're saying, I like the benefits, but that cost, that price point is just too much. So is there ever like a scenario where you think of like permissive use, they're like, oh, look, man, I don't love these compounded versions, but I actually think the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Like, yeah, how do you talk about that? Yeah, the problem with the compounded versions is that they haven't been studied for safety or efficacy. Now, if you look at, you can see Reddit, I have had patients come from the compounded versions, they've lost plenty of weight, but because of the nature of the compounded industry, you'll never have safety data. You can't do an FDA, you can't do a trial because the ethics committee would be like, no, you gotta use an FDA branded version. There's concerns over where they're getting the sourced active pharmaceutical ingredient, and if they're making it in a certain way, that's making immunogenic material that wasn't detected, it's a lot of different things, and that might be big pharma, fear mongering against the compounded version. So I usually just say, look, if you cannot get, if you can't afford the FDA approved versions, and you can't get it direct, like it's getting a lot cheaper now, and it's getting similar, almost similar costs to the compounded, it's still more expensive. I can't personally attest to the safety of the compounded versions. I sure as heck can attest to the research grade peptides. Now the thing is, you'll see, there'll be some analysis where it's like 99.5% pure. It would be as pure as a pharmaceutical grade version, and then they'll do an analysis on the next batch, and there's nothing in it. It's actually insane. So like you would have to verify every single batch that you got, I wouldn't mess around. I would never have a family member mess around with research grade. I wouldn't recommend compounded versions, but I'm in a, if you wanna call it a privileged position to where we could get them the FDA approved versions. So I don't get mad at people for going to the compounded versions because of affordability. What I do say is that the pain of that in the next few years, I think it's gonna be so, we're gonna look back and be like, oh wow, those are crazy times, because the drugs are gonna get so much cheaper and you'd be stupid not to get the FDA approved version, because they're gonna be so much cheaper. Again, we're just gonna go through the pain in the next few years, unfortunately, to get there. All right, final question to Dr. Baraki. Well, we've been talking about some aglitide, terzepitide, and the future. What about older anti-abucity medications? And what about microdosing? Because people talk about that too. So yeah, thoughts on some of these older medications and also microdosing, because we wanna be fashionable. Yeah, I think the question about older meds fits in nicely with the conversation that you just had around balancing risks and benefits of the non-FDA approved versions, if you're either going, considering a compounded version, or you're going like Chinese bathtub level peptide or something like that, because we have at least as much, arguably much even more experience with some of the older anti-abucity medicines. Now, what are the downsides of them? Many of them are not quite as potent in terms of their efficacy. Some of them come close, but the upside is that in general, they are way cheaper. They have maybe some of their own inconveniences. I've had plenty of patients, for example, the brand name Qsimia or Fentrumine Topiramate is one that is probably the most potent and has the best efficacy among the older ones. It's an oral agent. When it comes in the combination form that's branded, it might be a little bit less accessible for some folks, but it's also something that for somebody who's willing to go through with it and deal with a little bit more inconvenience, prescribe the meds separately in generic form, and it can do its thing. Potentially as a way to get people through this temporary, ideally, period of discomfort or pain that Spencer described until the cost and the prices come down. So I think they do still have a role for now. They can be used in conjunction with GLP-1s. They can be used on their own. They can be a bridge on or a bridge off. There's all sorts of different creative strategies that we can use when using things like, again, Fentrumine Topiramate. Less favorite is gonna be Proprion Naltrexone, but I've had plenty of patients who've used it with varying levels of success. Some who did great, some who didn't do as well, some who didn't get as much of a, who kind of fell somewhere in between, which is gonna be the case for most interventions. And then some patients who have very interesting, maybe disproportionate responses to certain things, to Fentrumine Monotherapy just by itself, which is not something that many of us use too often anymore, but once in a while, a patient will respond really well to that or to a Piramate or to some, anti-depressant category type medicines that for some patients have appetite-modifying type effects and things like that. So bottom line is they do still have a role. They tend to be less expensive. They have their own unique pros and cons that you need somebody who has expertise and experience with them to be able to discuss with the patient and then be able to monitor their therapy and things like that over time. And hopefully to keep kind of poking at this and engaging with this process to see, well, when does the cost benefit become within reach for you or become accessible or do you maybe unfortunately develop a condition that would qualify you for one of these things in a different way? These are all things that we'd be paying attention to. So that's my take on the older meds. And then lastly, the micro dosing topic, that's another thing that you'll see popularly on social media. It's not something that I don't think either of us is gonna routinely be recommending for people, mainly because we don't have the quality of evidence behind those strategies for the types of outcomes that we're looking for in terms of be at weight loss, blood sugar control, cardiovascular risk, kidney liver, all these other sorts of things. I can't say with confidence that using those levels of doses is gonna get you those outcomes that you might be interested in. Now, the caveat there is that when you are independent practicing clinician who feels confident with your practice, because I end up doing this with a lot of other things, you can do stuff off label all the time if you are comfortable with it, if you have a sense of the potential benefits, the potential risks, you're able to discuss this with your patient. And so where that might come more into play, and probably does more regularly come into play, is dosing for tolerability, right? And so we know that tolerance, the side effect risks that we talked about earlier, the overwhelming majority of it is gonna relate to dosage. And so tinkering with dosages is probably the way that we end up dealing with most of the side effect kind of profiles, whether going to even tinier doses and or stretching out that on ramp process to be even longer. A lot of the traditional dosing regimens, it's you go on this dose for four weeks and then you bump it up from there, et cetera. I could stretch that out longer if I wanted to. I could keep you on a lower dose for longer or increment you in a smaller way. If you're comfortable with these things, you can use those types of strategies. But it's not gonna be a standard recommendation for us at this time until or unless we have better quality data, I'm not gonna go out making grandiose claims about if you just micro dose, you'll get these like life changing benefits with no side effects or risk or something like that. I don't have concerns about risks at the very low doses and that's why we would use those potentially as a strategy for tolerability, but not really so much outside of that. So that's my take there. Excellent. All right, well, to sum up the data is clear. The new anti-OBCD medications, especially those targeting multiple receptor pathways, while they're offering efficacy that rivals metabolic and bariatric surgery with improved tolerability and they're showing clear benefits for cardiovascular, kidney and liver health with additional potential in the future. If you'd like to have a discussion with professionals about this, you can click on the link in our description below in the show notes. You can connect with professionals at Vineyard. That's Dr. Dodolsky's company and Austin will be starting there shortly. So if you wanna work with Dr. Baraki there and it's not just weight loss. Spencer, can you talk to some about some of the other stuff that you guys deal with? I know you mentioned cardio metabolic health at the onset, but yeah, what can people expect if they end up head into Vineyard? Yeah, so think about obesity, but also obesity adjacent to cardio metabolic health. Lipids, cholesterol, we also help with things like, easy things like hair loss. If you're losing your hair from the weight loss, we can jump in with minoxidil. If you're a guy and you just have androgenic hair loss, we can do a little finasteride. We can't call ourselves primary care. We like to stick to the cardio metabolic, but we can do some of these other things that, places these pill mills that you see, where you pay $50 a month, we can send it to places like Mark Cuban if your insurance doesn't cover it. So even skincare like Tretinoin, but think about blood pressure, lipid, glycemic control and weight losses in general, and then anything kind of adjacent to that. There you go. And for all your training and nutrition needs, you can check out Barbell Medicine. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. A special shout out to Dr. Nadeulski and Dr. Baraki for joining me, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.!