 So you're running out of closet space. The good news? You don't need to stop shopping. You just need to start selling, with The RealReal. The RealReal is the world's largest and most trusted resource for authenticated luxury resale. Whether it's that mini bag that can't even fit your phone, or those boots you never fully broke in, The RealReal handles everything, from photography and copywriting, to shipping and pricing. So you can just sit back, get paid, and make room for things that actually feel like you. And with 10,000 plus new arrivals every single day from top designers like Prada, Celine, Louis Vuitton, and Loewe, all for up to 90% off retail, you're bound to find something perfectly on brand to fill that extra closet space with. Plus, right now, you can get an extra $100 to shop when you sell for the first time. Make room for what feels like you. Go to TheRealReal.com to start selling and get your extra $100 to keep shopping at TheRealReal.com. That's TheRealReal.com. Terms apply. This podcast is sponsored by Talkspace. Last year, I went through many different life changes. I needed to take a pause and examine how I was feeling in the inside to better show up for the ones who need me to be my best version of myself. When you're navigating life's changes, Talkspace can help. Talkspace is the number one rated online therapy, bringing you professional support from licensed therapists and psychiatry providers that you can access anytime, anywhere. Living a busy life, navigating a long-distance relationship, becoming a first stepfather, Talkspace made all of those journeys possible. I could speak with my therapist in the office. I could speak with my therapist in the comfort of my home. I was never alone. Talkspace works with most major insurers, and most insured members have a $0 copay. No insurance, no problem. Now get $80 off your first month with promo code SPACE80 when you go to Talkspace.com. Match with a licensed therapist today at Talkspace.com. Save $80 with code SPACE80 at Talkspace.com. Warning. The following ZipRecruiter radio spot you are about to hear is going to be filled with F-words. When you're hiring, we at ZipRecruiter know you can feel frustrated, forlorn even, like your efforts are futile. And you can spend a fortune trying to find fabulous people, only to get flooded with candidates who are just fine. F***. Fortunately, ZipRecruiter figured out how to fix all that. And right now, you can try ZipRecruiter for free at ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. With ZipRecruiter, you can forget your frustrations, because we find the right people for your roles fast, which is our absolute favorite F-word. In fact, four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within the first day. Fantastic. So, whether you need to hire four, 40, or 400 people, get ready to meet first-rate talent. Just go to ZipRecruiter.com slash zip to try ZipRecruiter for free. Don't forget, that's ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. Finally, that's ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Direct line, our monthly Ask Us Anything for our Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We've got a stacked set of questions today, and a lot of it comes down to one recurring theme. The advice that was supposed to protect you might be doing the opposite. And to help me unpack all of this, we have the second most handsome doctor in North America. Dr. Austin Baraki, what's going on, dude? Hey, doing all right. Looking forward to the breadth of topics that you've pulled together or that our audience has pulled together. I just wrapped up some training this morning, and I'm comfortable, ready to go. All right, let's get into the first question. This one's on VO2max versus cardiorespiratory fitness for longevity. The question is, is VO2max the metric we should or could reference for cardiorespiratory fitness when it comes to longevity? Dr. Eric Topol points out the data comes mostly from measures of cardiorespiratory fitness, not actual measures of VO2max. How does this square with Dr. Peter Atiyah's recommendations for VO2max? So to start, yeah, these aren't the same things. VO2max and cardiorespiratory fitness are distinctly different. And most of the longevity studies that Dr. Atiyah has cited, they don't actually ever measure VO2max. We can fully concede that. VO2max, for those who are listening at home and may be unfamiliar with what it actually is, it's a measurement of your maximum oxygen uptake. It usually requires a maximal effort test with a metabolic cart to get a real number. Cardiorespiratory fitness, on the other hand, is more broad than that. In most large studies, it's an estimated treadmill test, estimated exercise test sort of thing. You take it to tolerance where people either have signs, if it's like a cardiac rehab sort of situation, or just otherwise they feel some breathlessness, they can't continue. And so you get a measurement of metabolic equivalence at peak effort. You can also get a submaximal test. There's also questionnaires. There's a bunch of different ways to test it. But most of the time in the research, it's an exercise tolerance test sort of thing. So Atiyah, despite this, gives specific VO2max percentile targets by age and sex in his book, despite the underlying studies not actually measuring that. So he says, despite all of this, that VO2max is the single most powerful marker for longevity. He's been saying it on his podcast. It's all over his book, Outlive. And honestly, he's probably right directionally. But Dr. Topol and some other people on Twitter have recently been kind of like taken the task for this. And particularly Dr. Topol's pointed critique suggests there's like a meaningful scientific problem with that claim. Austin, you want to walk us through that claim? I can do my best. This is an area where, you know, although the conversation is interesting, I see part of the issue being that folks like Dr. Atiyah, quote unquote, optimizers, are very interested in discrete and concrete metrics that they can aim to optimize. And there's, I forget the eponymous law that once the measure becomes the outcome, it often like ceases to become a good measure, right? And so you're right that directionally this is accurate in the sense of VO2max as a type of assessment for cardiorespiratory or aerobic fitness. But it is incomplete. And so why aiming to just specifically target that outcome with your, you know, your training protocols, just aiming at VO2max optimization might be missing some things. And so some of the commonly cited studies in this realm, one in 2022 and JAMA Network Open very frequently cited that looked at exercise capacity assessed by the METS kind of measurement that we've talked about before from a stress test, not a direct VO2max measure, but rather the MET performance is then mapped onto your VO2max kind of percentiles. And there are several others that also use, you know, performance-based metrics, like another one in JAMA from 1989 that used a treadmill time. That's a performance-based test. Dr. Topol's point and many others who have made similar arguments is that we're kind of conflating or looking at various measures of cardiorespiratory fitness, which is a much more broad and kind of like an umbrella description of what we're talking about, and trying to collapse it down into this single metric of VO2max, which is a very particular thing that has very particular limiters, meaning that there are certain things that it will tell you more about. So it might tell you a little bit more about like cardiac function, for example, like central kind of adaptations, and a little bit less about some of the more peripheral determinants of cardiorespiratory performance. And so, you know, the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and longevity is pretty clear. Nobody is really arguing that or debating it at this point, at least I hope not. I think maybe some of our former colleagues still maybe underprioritize this in the strength training space. But people who are reasonable generally agree that being more fit from a cardiorespiratory standpoint is going to be both associated with and to some extent causally related to improvements in health and longevity and lifespan and healthspan and all of these good things that we're looking after. But rather that collapsing it down into just VO2max is short-sighted, given that most of the evidence that we're drawing this off of looks at actual performance. And so what kind of things can you draw from this? It might be like, hey, maybe why don't we just pay attention to performance and we don't need to use this very particular metric. People who are very much into biomarkers and biohacking and optimizing very specific numbers on a lab test or something that they can, you know, go out and do or calculate might not love that. They might get a little uncomfortable with it. But at the same time, I don't know that you or I would have a problem with like picking a benchmark test and aiming to improve that over time and saying if that performance test, that road test that is relatively standardized over time is generally improving, then it is a reasonable take to say my cardiorespiratory fitness from central adaptations to peripheral adaptations to VO2max, all of that is improving, likely improving a variety of other health outcomes and longevity as well. I don't know. What's your take there? Yeah, I don't want to be like an ATIA apologist, you know, in some ways and reframe his actual discussion or his claims, because honestly, I'm not super familiar with everything he's ever said about this. It is totally possible that he's overstated this, perhaps even even likely. But I think the pushback is mostly around, look, he gives these specific percentiles that people should be targeting and like that's the benchmark. And I can understand some criticism around that if they're not really based on the metric that he's telling people to chase. But that seems fine, but it seems more of like a semantic sort of thing to me, because I actually think it's useful to have a target like this. The analogous would be like a strength, you know, a strength standard like you should get your strength up to this much on a particular exercise or this particular test. And it's like, yeah, well, not all encompassing. It does give us what I view as a very important variable with respect to exercise prescription. It's the monitoring thing because exercise works better when it actually works to make you fitter. So it's not just like do the guidelines, double the guidelines. It's like, yeah, but do it in a way that makes you stronger, that improves your cardiorespiratory fitness. And the VO2 max is a reasonable sort of test of your cardiorespiratory fitness. There are other ways to test it, too. So he could have picked, you know, a 20 minute cycle time trial test and say, look, here are the here's the data we have on that or like or a power output sort of thing. You could have done any of that. We put in our barbell medicine vital five like, look, VO2 max. Here are some targets to get people to shoot for, mainly because it's not enough, in my opinion or our opinion, to say, yeah, just exercise. Do it in a way that's productive. And also, by the way, exercise tolerance test has a really good correlation to actual measured VO2 max. So it's not like their world's apart anyway. There's just more stuff or different things that are being captured in that test. So I don't think a TIA is wrong per se. It may be wrong about the precision, but right about the direction. Not really the same error. And I do think, again, as you mentioned, nobody's arguing against like cardiorespiratory fitness being useful. I just think, sure, if you want to say the specific percentile thresholds are not exactly as evidence based as he's leading on. Fine. You could just chastise him for not being a great science communicator in this particular respect. Although, what's the harm? Well, think about it this way. Here's the pushback to your pushback on this, which we're kind of doing it doing in real time here. You know, if we're in agreement that cardiorespiratory fitness is the real thing that we care about, but we want a metric and we use VO2 max, then what happens, and this is what we observed in that space a fair amount of the time, is people looking for very specific, quote-unquote, protocols aimed at optimizing that one measure. Right? To the potential exclusion or kind of deprioritization of other possible ways of training that would also improve cardiorespiratory fitness in other ways, even if not kind of, quote-unquote, optimized towards VO2 max. So this is where you'll hear them talk about this particular interval training protocol that was done in the study and was shown to improve VO2 max. And I would do that instead of, you know, this other form of aerobic training or cardiorespiratory training. An analog that I might be able to draw here is like, let's say that we look at the strength training evidence, and it's like, yeah, strength, pretty clear, you know, predictive power, good correlation with health outcomes and things like that. And so the metric or the outcome that I'm going to use is grip strength. And so then all of my training protocols are going to be oriented around improving my grip strength. Is that going to make you healthier compared with not doing any strength training? Sure. Are there a lot of other ways that you could train to improve your strength that would also be useful, even if you were not singularly focused on that one potential metric? Absolutely. Right? You could pick any exercise. Maybe somebody else might say, oh, it's your, you know, 5RM back squat. It's like, okay, well, then the only way that I'm going to aim to improve my strength for health and longevity is by back squatting. And everything's in the order. It's like, yeah, there's a lot of ways that you could train for strength that will improve your health outcomes and some that might even be worth including that you are deprioritizing because you're very focused on this one measure. So I think that's kind of like where there's a little bit of daylight between, you know, these different positions, these different takes. Having metrics is great, but collapsing everything down into that one metric and making that the primary outcome of interest to potentially the exclusion of other, like, valuable aspects might be where some people could improve the way they go about this. Yeah. Just to wrap this up, you'll note in the Barbell Medicine Vital 5, it wasn't just a VO2 max number. It was also some field tests that could be done across different modalities, and we kind of explicitly recommend that. So we don't hamstring people by saying, you just got to get your VO2 max up and do anything else that doesn't directly raise your VO2 max is useless. We're just like, look, we want to improve your cardiorespiratory fitness. Here are various benchmarks you can chase or monitor your progress over time, because I think it does add a critical element that's missing from the current guidelines, which is not do the exercise, but also make sure it works for you. Cool. Next question, more on GLP-1s. Will this ever be sufficiently handled? No. There will be no more GLP-1 questions. So the question is that GLP-1 medications like Ozampic, Wegovi, Manjaro, Zepbound, they can be transformative for a lot of patients, but they're also very expensive, sometimes over $1,000 a month without insurance. Is there any real evidence that that's going to change, that prices are going to come down? And I want to be honest about the timeline here. So the bottom line, without pretty strong insurance coverage, long-term use is difficult to access for many folks unless they're willing to pay out of pocket. The question is, are generics coming soon? And, you know, loraglutide became a generic, although there was some evergreening type situation that was going on with the manufacturer. But I think the main thing here with respect to generics is that GLP-1s are either peptides or biologics. You know, this is kind of arbitrary line in the sand based on their structure, peptides officially by the FDA being like 40 amino acids long or less. And then if it's above that, it's a protein drug or a biologic. So because of this structure, they are more challenging to make. And there are many different ways that manufacturers can maintain their patent on them, you know. So not just the formulation, but the pen, for example, and then other aspects of the drug. So they can like kind of maintain or limit generic development. Some thought that biosimilars could be a competing product. These are like highly similar to an approved reference protein drug or biologic. Humira, there was some development here. And there are some biosimilars being developed in China and a few other countries, but none in the U.S. right now. So to me, I don't think there's any generic ozempic or zepbound coming soon, mainly because the key patents don't really expire until the 2030s. And even then, you've got to have a manufacturer who's willing to make these things and the pen, which I think requires a lot of funding. What do you think about that? Yeah, just a few kind of, I guess, things from doing this day to day with patients is that while the list prices are certainly exorbitantly high in those ranges that you described, at this point in time in 2026, nobody is paying that amount in the U.S. or should be. And that is because of the manufacturer's direct access programs. So with Eli Lilly, they have Lilly Direct, which I have no affiliation with, to be clear. And Novo also has their own NovoCare kind of direct to manufacturer option. And so if you are somebody who, for some reason, you know, maybe either with insurance or without it, is still paying that amount, you should talk to your prescriber. So Eli Lilly through Lilly Direct, Terzepatide or Zepbound is available in the range of $299 to $449 a month. Wigovi through NovoCare, depending on the oral or the injection formulation, ranging from $149 to $349 a month. And so these prices most recently dropped last fall, I believe. It might have been sometime around October. Prior to that, yes, you know, even people who wanted to go cash pay were paying these much higher and more exorbitant prices. So prices are actively coming down. These companies are competing against one another. There's a lot of movement between the two companies, other potential entrants into the space, other non-GLP-1-based therapies, so like amylin analogs and things like that. So ultimately what I'm seeing is drugs that are increasingly effective, increasingly safe, increasingly like long-acting. So loraglutide was once a day and then these more recent ones are once a week. There was one recently that was studied that's once a month and things like that. So more effective, safer, better tolerated, longer acting. And because all these players are competing with one another, yes, the prices are gradually coming down. As I mentioned, the current cash prices that people are able to get range from like say $150 to $450 in general, direct from the manufacturer, at least in the U.S. And I have a substantial portion of patients who are using those options when their insurance is not covering it for whatever reason. But yes, I do expect that cost will continue to come down. That is definitively what I expect to happen. It might take longer than all of us would like, as it already has, but that is what I expect to happen. As far as generics, yeah, that's a complicated question because these aren't just one drug. They all have some unique considerations to your point. The idea of a generic manufacturer producing an auto-injector in pen form, like there's not too many examples of that that I can think of off the top of my head. Whereas the oral options, as those become generic, those are far more likely to become available in generic form once those patents expire. Although there is still the caveat of like the complexity of the manufacturing. So with oral semaglutide, for example, that is a peptide. And the, you know, pretty advanced pharmaco engineering was needed to make that orally bioavailable. The newer Lilly oral product that we're expecting is going to be approved and available this year is called Orforglypron. And that is actually a small molecule GLP-1. So that is not a peptide in the same way as the injectable GLP-1s or oral Wagovi. And therefore doesn't necessarily require that same degree of advanced bioengineering. So to the extent that we're able to get oral small molecules, that would be like kind of a grail to work towards and would be something that would make these much more easily accessible. So, yeah, if I fast forward a year, does the space look like radically different? You know, it's evolving actually pretty quickly, but not, you know, on that rapid of a timeline. Do I expect like the whole space is going to be overhauled? But if I look maybe, you know, three, four, five years, it's going to be wild because if I rewind five years, you know, that was even pre-zepbound, pre-Trzepatide era. All we had was ozempic and Wagovi was just kind of coming on the scene. Fast forward 10 years, who knows what this space is going to look like. So a lot of evolution, a lot more options. Ultimately, like all good things, I think for people are coming. More options, more effective, safer, better tolerated, cheaper. Or that's what, you know, for whatever you think about capitalism, that is what it is doing for us in this space. So reasons for optimism, at least on this front for people, I think, in the future. Yeah, yeah. The honest answer for patients right now is that the market pressures do seem to be working in their favor, whether it's due to compounding pharmacies continuing to sell these things that maybe shouldn't be happening. And subsequently, there's direct consumer programs from the manufacturers themselves. So these assistance programs, you should ask your doctor about that if you currently are paying, you know, four figures a month. For these sort of things. And then, yeah, I suspect with continued R&D, we're going to have better agents available. Again, comparing liraglutide, you know, once a day, not terribly effective to orphaglipuron or even, you know, retatratide. It's like, OK, way more effective, less, you know, dosing frequency, less side effects, generally speaking. And you're like, OK, and that's just in a few years. Yes. Yes. What a time to be alive. Exactly. If you've seen my Instagram lately, you know that my new house is currently a construction zone and my schedule is a bit crazy. Between everything that's going on, the last thing I want to do at 8 p.m. is chop vegetables and then deal with a cast iron skillet for 20 minutes. Factor has been my lifeline here. They are fully prepped meals designed by dieticians and chefs that actually taste like real food. I've been leaning hard into the muscle pro collection because the macros are pretty spot on for my training, but they also have over 100 rotating options, including the Mediterranean diet, a higher protein option, even something for those that are on GLP ones. The quality is actually there. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables and healthy fats with no added sugars or anything that you don't want. It's always fresh, never frozen. This podcast is sponsored by Quince. Now, we talk a lot about high yield strategies in the gym, and I think that logic should apply to your closets. You can look your best when you're not in athleisure wear. Personally, I've been focused on efficiency, finding pieces that look good, mix well and actually hold up over time. And that's where Quince shines. They offer everyday essentials like short sleeve cashmere polos and Pima cotton tees that stay soft and do not pill. They also have European jersey linen that is breathable and lightweight for when the weather starts to shift. Now, the reason that the price is so much lower than what you see at high end malls is that Quince works directly with top factories and cuts out the middlemen. You're essentially getting luxury materials without the brand markup. These pieces are rated between 4.5 and 5 stars by thousands of people. They only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. I've been wearing a few of their over shirts and their Pima t-shirts lately. They look great and feel expensive, but they definitely didn't cost a fortune. No need to overcomplicate your wardrobe. You just need a few pieces that actually work. Right now, go to quince.com slash BBM for free shipping and 365 days of returns. That's a full year to build your wardrobe and love it. And you will. Now available in Canada too. Don't keep settling for clothes that don't last. Head to quince.com slash BBM for free shipping and 365 days of returns. That's quince.com slash BBM. This podcast is sponsored by Talkspace. Last year, I went through many different life changes. I needed to take a pause and examine how I was feeling in the inside to better show up for the ones who need me to be my best version of myself. When you're navigating life's changes, Talkspace can help. Talkspace is the number one rated online therapy, bringing you professional support from licensed therapists and psychiatry providers that you can access anytime, anywhere. Living a busy life, navigating a long distance relationship, becoming a first stepfather. Talkspace made all of those journeys possible. I could speak with my therapist in the office. I could speak with my therapist in the comfort of my home. I was never alone. Talkspace works with most major insurers and most insured members have a $0 copay. No insurance, no problem. Now get $80 off your first month with promo code SPACE80 when you go to Talkspace.com. Match with a licensed therapist today at Talkspace.com. Save $80 with code SPACE80 at Talkspace.com. Warning, the following ZipRecruiter radio spot you are about to hear is going to be filled with F-words. When you're hiring, we at ZipRecruiter know you can feel frustrated, forlorn even, like your efforts are futile. And you can spend a fortune trying to find fabulous people, only to get flooded with candidates who are just fine. F***! Fortunately, ZipRecruiter figured out how to fix all that. And right now, you can try ZipRecruiter for free at ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. With ZipRecruiter, you can forget your frustrations. Because we find the right people for your roles fast. Which is our absolute favorite F-word. In fact, 4 out of 5 employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within the first day. Fantastic! So, whether you need to hire 4, 40, or 400 people, get ready to meet first-rate talent. Just go to ZipRecruiter.com slash zip to try ZipRecruiter for free. Don't forget, that's ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. Finally, that's ZipRecruiter.com slash zip. Alright, next question. Something that we get asked quite frequently. Is walking enough for cardiovascular health? So, this individual asks, I often see evidence-based recommendations suggesting that two strength sessions per week plus 7,000 to 12,000 daily steps are sufficient to optimize health outcomes. Optimize, you know, a lot of heavy lifting in that sentence. Does walking at that volume meaningfully count towards physical activity guidelines for cardiorespiratory fitness? In a personal training context, should coaches still encourage additional conditioning, so low-intensity steady state, or some high-intensity interval training, if clients are already hitting 7,000 to 20,000 steps per day and have limited time for training? Austin, I'm going to leave with a fun fact. I don't know if you knew this. Okay. Leonardo da Vinci, the Italian artist who painted The Last Supper, he is credited with inventing the first step counter. It was mounted at the waist and had a long lever that was tied to the thigh. And so, when the thigh moved back and forth during walking, the gears rotated and the resulting steps were counted. Genius. Yeah, it's like the analog of like a mechanical watch kind of mechanism back in the day. Yeah, so I think this question boils down to enough for what? You know, optimal is different than like adequate and then adequate for what? So, is it enough to live longer? That's not the same as enough to improve VO2 max or cardiorespiratory fitness, which is not the same as enough to meet activity guidelines. Which is not the same as enough, you know, get to optimize longevity. These require kind of different answers. I think the 10,000 steps thing has been mostly debunked. You know, most folks are aware that this is mostly a marketing thing, not necessarily a scientific thing. And if you're not aware, well, it came from the 1960s. There's a Japanese marketing campaign for a pedometer where the name literally meant 10,000 step meter. The number was chosen because the Japanese character for 10,000 resembles a person walking. So, purely aesthetic and marketing. And hats off to that person because quite genius. Yet, it still persists as some sort of health recommendation. It's pretty reasonable to me. I've done a little deep dive into this previously where in the United States, most adults with their habitual activity levels will walk somewhere or take somewhere between 4,000 and 6,000 steps per day. Obviously, this varies based on occupational activity and obviously health condition where some health conditions will walk far less than that. Some health conditions will actually walk more. But, yeah, somewhere between 4,000 to 6,000 steps per day. So, if you bumped this person step count up to 10,000 and on average with the self-selected gait speed, which is around three miles an hour more or less, it takes about 10 minutes to walk 1,000 steps. So, if you're at the upper end of that range, 6,000 steps per day, and you bump it to 10,000 steps per day, that's 40 minutes of additional walking or additional exercise. And so, yeah, there's some decent evidence showing that when people increase their step count from around, you know, 4,000 to 6,000 steps per day up to 7,500 steps per day is associated with significantly lower mortality in various populations. And that's kind of where that evidence settles out, right in that 7,000, 8,000 steps per day. So, above that, it's not to say there's no additional benefit, but I think this kind of gets at the crux of the question, is this enough to sort of generate improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness that are analogous to other forms of cardio? In other words, could you just recommend walking relative or instead of or in place of, you know, formal conditioning on a, you know, elliptical on an exercise bike on the stairs? Austin, what do you think about that? Is walking intense enough to sort of, you know, meet criteria for true exercise, or is it more of like, it's activity, but not necessarily exercise? Yeah, I think that this question is unanswerable as stated, and the reason, as you stated, to be clear. And the reason why is just, is walking intense enough? Because, you know, it's like saying, is squatting intense enough? And it's like, well, how much are you doing, right? And so, there's always going to be the trade-off of intensity and overall volume. And so, one of the interesting kind of rabbit holes, I can't say that I've done an ultra-comprehensive deep dive into it, but something that I've found interesting recently was this concept of the physical activity level, abbreviated as PAL, which kind of describes the ratio of the person's total energy expenditure compared with their basal metabolic rate. And that as a proxy for various sorts of health outcomes and things like that. And so, you know, you can have a physical activity level of like 1 or 1.5 or 2 or 2.5, again, as a multiplier of how many times your basal metabolic rate are you expending per day. And so, there are a lot of different ways that you can achieve that type of higher like overall physical activity level, overall energy expenditure. We've talked about this a little bit in other contexts where it seems that just like overall flux through the system, meaning like, you know, say you're like consuming calories. The calorie flux through the system, the way it's consumed, metabolized, and expended. Same with like lipid flux is a very important sort of thing, rather than the lipids like stagnating in your blood for long periods of time. If they are moving through, getting cleared quickly, like people tend to do better. And so, there's some evidence in this space looking at various like hunter-gatherer populations and things like that who have very, very high physical activity levels, this PAL kind of metric, and who have fantastic, you know, health outcomes when you are looking at the types of things that kill us in like modern society, right? These non-communicable lifestyle-related metabolic diseases, things like that. And so, if you ask the question like, is walking intense enough, again, that's only a partial answer or a partially completed question in my mind. And what I'm getting at to stop beating around the bush is I think it is actually fine for this purpose if you do enough of it. Now, since the original question asker had said to optimize health outcomes, if the context is 7,000 to 12,000 steps a day, I'd say no. I would say you need probably substantially more than that to get a PAL high enough to like really, really optimize those health outcomes. So, if somebody said, I only want to walk for my cardiorespiratory fitness, and I'd be like, are you willing to walk, I don't know, 15,000, 20,000 steps a day, something like that? I think that that would probably be fine. I think you could do that, do some strength training twice a week. I think that would be like a reasonable thing if you were willing and able to do that. I struggle to see, for example, somebody who's willing to walk 20,000 steps a day who's like, oh, they're going to have some preventable health consequence unless they added in some like high-intensity interval training on top of that. Could they have some like potential fitness gains? Sure, they potentially could, but I think that if you're going to use a fundamentally like low-intensity activity for this outcome, I think if you do a massive amount of it, you will probably be in pretty good shape. And so, yeah, I don't think that just 7,000 to 12,000, again, for the purposes of this person asking specifically, I want to optimize my health outcomes. Because what I'm anticipating is I say this, and then we're going to get questions in the group of people saying like, well, I thought 10,000 steps a day was enough. I can't do it. And it's like, yeah, people are busy. They got jobs. They got kids. They got families. And there are trade-offs with that. Like we talked about this recently in the context of another post where somebody was like, it's not realistic to expect that everybody is going to do this much exercise. And it's like, yeah, building elite levels of fitness takes time. And you might not have that time. That's why you don't have elite levels of fitness. I'm sorry to say. Yeah. Point out a few things. One, missed opportunity to say, are you willing to walk 500 miles? It's like that would have been a nice little segue. And then two, yeah, when you brought up PAL, it triggered this memory of mine working on another project. There's this classic study of jute mill workers where they actually measured their PAL. And so like the workers who were, you know, in the fields and then back in the factory or whatever, their PAL was through the roof, right? And that there's a mortality risk there is relatively low. But the office workers, same environment, far lower PAL. There's a risk there. And so it's all about energy throughput. And I think it sets up a nice continuum. The lower the intensity of the activity, the more of it you're going to have to do to get the same energy throughput. But as time becomes more and more limited, more and more intensity is needed. And so you think about a person who is willing to walk, not 500 miles, but 20,000 steps a day. That's over two hours of walking per day at a self-selected pace, even if you're kind of hustling around. Most people don't have that on top of the other responsibilities that they generally have. And so as your time availability becomes less and less, you're going to need more and more intense exercise. So, you know, I got into a little Twitter spat with an individual. They're like, why are you recommending high intensity interval training or high intensity training? You know, it's not optimal for VO2 max. Zone two is king. And I'm like, what if you only have an hour a week? Yeah. At that point, the intensity is going to make up for, at least on some level, the amount of time that you have. And so that's the relationship that we see. If you have all the time in the world and you want to walk, that's fine. I think the more interesting question here that is unanswerable is that if somebody were to be walking 20,000 steps per day, and let's just say that that did not budge their cardiorespiratory fitness from where it was, but their energy throughput is high. Does their longevity look similar to somebody who actually did increase their VO2 max or their cardiorespiratory fitness through, you know, maybe more optimal training methods? And that is a question that remains unanswered. Yeah, I agree. No, no clear answer to that question. The problem or like the wrinkle in your case that you make, and this is implicit, you already know this, but just to make it clear is that if to the extent you're time limited and you're having to make up for that gap with more intensity, there is an earlier and a firmer ceiling to how intense you can realistically go. In other words, like you cannot necessarily fully make up for the same amount of like PAL, that overall energy expenditure, purely through intensity. If you, because you can only go so intense and then like survive, like recover from it, right? Kind of like when we talk about with lifting weights, like the intensity, you can only go up to 100% of your one rep max. You can't slash arguably shouldn't go try to go heavier than that on a regular basis. Whereas the overall training volume that you can expose yourself to provided it is like dosed and progressed reasonably, people can get up to exceptionally high overall activity volumes. Again, the practicality of that may or may not be feasible for people. In my own life, you know, now I'm doing a lot more hybrid. I'm doing some hospital work. I'm doing more telemedicine work than I have in the past. And I realized that with the amount of telemedicine work I was doing, I did not want to be seated at a desk doing virtual appointments for most of the day. So I acquired a walking pad that I have, that I've posted about. And so on a routine, if I do have like a full day of virtual, you know, consults and visits and calls and things like that, it's actually not difficult or unusual for me to range between 15 to 25,000 steps. Just kind of casually going. And that's even at a very low, slow pace at like a one mile per hour type pace, because I don't want to be like hustling, bouncing around on the screen. It's like enough that I can like stabilize my torso and like look reasonable on video. And I feel fine and I'm recovering fine and my strength is fine. And I'm still, I'm still doing other activity, including some running and some lifting and stuff like that because I enjoy it. And I feel better when I'm generally more active, but that's like some of the steps that I've taken to, to get there. So yeah, the lower intensity, you have to do more. If your time's compromised, you're going to have to pull the lever of intensity a bit, but that lever will only be able to get you so far. And unfortunately, not everyone is going to be able to reach elite levels of fitness without spending a lot of time doing the activity. That's just the reality. And that time may not be available. Yeah. Yeah. Point. Point.