 jisr, jisr, jisr, jisr, jisr, jisr, jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jisr jis you don't want to put them through that. Here's something that's like an X factor. The patients that become, I don't want to say obsessed, but borderline obsessed, meaning that they buy in so much that it doesn't overtake their lives, but they just, it's a big part of their lives now. They love fitness. Those are the ones that do extremely well. Well, it's because we're the people, we see the people who that stuff doesn't work for. The people who that doesn't work for don't come to us for stuff, you know? Yep, exactly. I think it's the way of the future. I think we're kind of on that forefront of making it seem kind of sexy. You know, barbell medicine, you know, like people, I think, you know, and even CrossFit, you know, they're coming out with their CrossFit health thing. And, you know, I don't necessarily agree with all their messages, but they're trying to get all physicians to a CrossFit certified if they want to. I don't know if it comes with a fee, but I know that's their initiative. I don't think it's a bad thing getting, you know, physicians into exercise. Do you have like a top three, like medications that you actually like? Because our listenership's probably not familiar with the medications that are being used in this situation. Yeah. Top three. Number one would be something called Q-Symia, which is a combination of fentramine and curamide. Unfortunately, the company that made this, Vivas or Vivas, I don't know how you say it. I think they're going to go, I think they're going out of business. So I, a lot of times, use fentramine monotherapy first to make sure that they tolerate it, about a half a tab, around 15 milligrams. It's only, monotherapy, meaning just the fentramine alone, the FDA is only approved for like 12 weeks at a time. The Q-Symia in the combination together is approved indefinitely as long as people have significant weight loss, but it's expensive. It's like 150 bucks a month. Insurance never pays for it, unfortunately. That one, I, that one, it just, that one works the best. It just works the best. It combines it with topiramide, fentramine with topiramide. Topiramide is not a controlled medicine. Fentramine is. Fentramine is a sympathomimetic that kind of works similarly to like methamphetamines, but they're not addictive and don't cause as many side effects. The topiramide, topiramide actually was used for seizures, you know, anti-seizure medicine. Then it was, they found it helped with migraines and then people were losing a little bit of weight. So it has some side effects. So when you combine the two of them in lower doses, you're able to get that efficacious appetite suppressant without the side effects. Interestingly, I love QCM. I just wish, I wish it were not so expensive and I wish they weren't going out of business. The, the next, the next medicine I, I really like is something called Saxenda. It's a high dose lyraglutide, which is a glucagon like peptide one agonist. And this was, these types of medicines, they were originally used for diabetes, type two diabetes. I don't know if you guys have ever talked about these on the show, GLP one agonist, but it's essentially the stuff that's released from your intestines. Okay. Here's a good thing. Here's a good story about this. We have a little bit of time, but in, I don't think it was like the fifties or forties. They wanted to see whether your insulin release would go up. What, if you drink sugar versus where you injected it. And in my mind, if you injected it, it's getting right to your bloodstream. I would assume that you would release more insulin. What they found is that when you drank the sugar, your insulin went higher. So what they called it, this incretin effect, the insulin secretion or intestinal secretion of insulin effect, incretin. And then they figured it out. They, they wound up finding it was this glucagon like peptide one. And then they, you know, obviously big pharma figured out a way in these gila monsters in their saliva, whatever. Anyway, they got down to these little molecules and now they're making all sorts of peptides that are lasting forever. But anyway, this, this stuff actually slows down gastric emptying. There's multiple receptors in the brain that, that have this GLP one and it causes, it, it will knock someone's appetite right out. It can make people nauseous, but it's an injectable, unfortunately, but it's, you know, subcutaneous, tiny little needles you barely even feel. That one's super powerful and even sometimes I combine that with a QCMF. People really have bad hunger, but I love that one. The third one is a combination of bupropion and now Yeah, trade natives, contrave. Interesting stuff. Bupropion was used for depression, but it's also used for smoking cessation. It works up in the mesolimbic pathway with dopamine and norepinephrine and it helps people stop smoking. Now, trexone's used, it's an opioid antagonist and it's used in drinking cessation. So, what's interesting is, you know, there's some, I could get into some real nuanced stuff, but the combination of the two will increase satiety in this one part of your hypothalamus, but, but those two things together may actually help with those who have this kind of like craving, real cravings, sensation, maybe issues with their reward pathway that, you know, the reward pathway is basically where you're full and you still want pie and you're like, I don't know why, I'm full, but I still want pie. That's part of that pathway. So, that medicine actually works up there as well and can be beneficial. Some patients do amazingly well in it. Some people don't lose anyway and that's when you got to change that medicine. But those are my top three go-tos. There's some other ones out there, but that's what I would look into if I were needing one. Yeah, we should advise people to like not go on the black market to obtain said medications because there are adverse side effects and reactions that you can have that need to be managed or at least observed by a medical professional. So, you know, don't go on like a website and buy this stuff and just be like, yeah, I don't know, man. I feel like I'm getting like pulmonary hypertension. I'm not sure like what's, you know, that, so that, yeah, so that would be like non-surgical management in addition to the conservative sort of therapy. So, obviously prescribing a very individualized like dietary manipulations and exercise interventions. When do you consider surgery or referring for surgical evaluation? Like, is there, let's say that there are two different person, two different people. So, person one, when would you like refer that person just directly? You see them for the first time and you're like, hey, I gotta refer you like right now and then when, like, a person that you've worked with for a period of time and you're like, you know what, we need to refer you. Like, what are the two situations where that happens? Yeah, so, just for briefly, just like the medicine we talked about, the indications, the 27 plus a comorbidity, BMI and a 30 comorbidity. So, with surgery, it's 35, plus a comorbidity, like type 2 diabetes or just anything over a 40 BMI. And so, when these people come into the door, it really depends. Like, if, kind of on the same spectrum, I can look at somebody and probably have a good idea, but I've been wrong. I've been wrong. People surprise me. Like, you know, I have, I'm pretty sure this person's not gonna lose any weight despite trying some of these different therapies. But I've been wrong before and I'm just like, wow, and just impressed. But, sometimes they come in and they've, you know, they've tried many diets. They're, they're 400 pounds and you can just, just talking to them, like, you get an idea. If you want to try again, we can try more different medicines and they're kind of like, I don't know. Those are the people that's like, look, they've tried and they failed so much. You, you don't want to put them through that. And eventually, they'll have to come back to you if you're working with them medically and you'll have to watch them for six months, try to at least attempt to lose weight because insurance companies want to see that before bariatric surgery. But in those cases, I tend to send right away. Otherwise, I'll give it a good, I'll give it my best and with best coaching and medical practices and see if we can get some, a good, at least 10% response in weight loss. But otherwise, I'll just send them on and work with the surgeon. Yeah. I mean, that's been my similar experience when I have referred people for bariatric surgery evaluation. And I think there's a negative stigma, particularly amongst the, like, in the health field, you know, particularly practitioners without medical training that, surgery is like a last-ditch resort. But that's not an evidence-based opinion. I mean, if you look at, like, long-term success data, like, surgery kicks ass, you know? I know. Like, sometimes I'm like, I wish I were, I kind of wish I were a surgeon and then I realize I'm like, I'm like, freaking stupid with my hands. I would never be a good surgeon. But, no, it's by far, by far better data than medical therapy or conservative therapy. Unfortunately, I wish it weren't. I wish that weren't the case. I just wish, but they kick our butts. I remember watching, I remember watching some of those laparoscopic ruin-wise back in medical school. It was just, like, amazing watching somebody just rearrange someone's anatomy and then I know that, like, hey, five days from now, this person's going to be cured of diabetes. That is neat. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, I mean, there are, so, you know, the overarching theme here is when the benefits of a gastric bypass or a similar surgery outweighs the risk of not only the surgical procedure, but, like, the post-surgical complications, you know, there are things that you, that you're going to, may have issues with, like, dumping syndrome and malabsorption diseases and stuff like that and that's got to be monitored, you know, indefinitely. But, if the benefit outweighs those risks, that's the person that needs to be referred. So, I would really like to kind of temper the sort of negative stigma that surgery has. It's not a failure of, like, willpower or, like, you just didn't try hard enough or you didn't try enough things. It's just that, hey, at this point, I mean, you could spend another 20 years chasing this dragon of, like, weight loss or we could go, like, change your life now, you know? And for some folks, particularly, you know, as you discussed, the PMI over 40 or multiple medical comorbidities that would benefit from this management, like, right now, those are the people that need to be referred and a failure to do so is, you know, effectively malpractice on some level because you're just not giving a person their best chance to succeed and live a high-quality life, you know, and not develop complicated disease processes. So, I think the way that, you know, the way I think about it, seeing the entire spectrum of the complications of obesity, like, especially on the inpatient side, for example, but it's like, hey, if doing this surgery sooner rather than later, because if you do it later, they will carry this diabetes and hyperglycemia for longer, let's say they progress to renal failure and need dialysis or something like that, right? Like, that's super common or they need an amputation or something like that. If doing this surgery now prevents this person from needing to be on dialysis for the rest of their life because I cure their diabetes and we can get them lifestyle better, it's like, huge, huge, huge, you know, benefits from a cost standpoint, medical system, as well as the patient's psychological standpoint. I mean, that being on dialysis for your life is depressing, you know, and then maybe needing a transplant afterwards, like, that's what I'm talking about when we see all this, the roads that people go down when this stuff is untreated or unfixed chronically. Yeah, absolutely. And as much as we're, like, saying this may be a magic bullet, it's really not, though, because there are a bunch of people who fail gastric bypass or other surgeries. So, it's just, at the point that you're considering this, I do think that the medical evaluation is important. So, yeah, it's good to have some backup there and you're not like, oh, it's crazy, man, just try harder, you know, just come on, man, eat less, move more, try harder. It's, you know, get off the couch. Yeah, yeah, and again, we're only laughing because it's just, we recognize the gravity of the situation is a big problem and then we just need to do a better job at referring appropriately and managing these things. Well, it's because we're the people, we see the people who that stuff doesn't work for. The people who that doesn't work for don't come to us for stuff, you know? Right, right, right, right. It's true. Yeah, I mean, so, you know, it's an interesting thing particularly as it, like, societal influences on behavior. When you see high-level athletes or what we would, you know, what you could further boil down to is like the high-level responders to whatever intervention in the physical culture, it's high-level responders to training, nutrition, whatever. You say, well, this, it worked for them, look at that, like, I can do that, you know? And, but that might not be the case, you know, if you don't have the same genetic makeup, the same sort of epigenetic changes that have occurred over a lifetime, you know, it may not work for you. And so, you can't look to the people who have, by definition, over-responded to a given stimulus and say, that's the normal experience because it's, by definition, not. So, using the high-level athlete or high-level responder's sort of advertisement is nothing new. That's been going on for a long time, but that may not be, you know, results atypical. And so, we have to, yeah, exactly. We have to manage our expectations appropriately. Okay, so, kind of wrapping up this obesity section, we have, like, one more on, like, exercise and medicine and how those tie in together. Best data to date on long-term sustainability of, like, dietary, nutritional interventions for weight loss or weight management probably come from the American Weight Loss Registry. I mean, it's just, like, the biggest collection of, like, behavioral changes that people are doing in practice. And so, things you get out of that are, like, people eat breakfast on the regular, they have some sort of accountability where they're regularly either tracking calories or their weight or regularly going to meetings to interact with either professionals or peers that's, like, kind of helping them stay on the straight and narrow. They watch less TV, they're more active on average, you know, less screen time, et cetera, et cetera. Outside of those, what do you see in your practice that are associated with the highest levels of success? What sort of either behavioral changes or interventions you see that are, like, best for long-term sustainability? Yeah, so, do you want me to tell you the people that are the most successful or the things that I feel like when I, my treatment plans that seem the most successful? So, I'll just say, the people that track, the people that track their calories and macronutrients, they're above and beyond the most successful. But I will say that there's so many that hate doing that that it's not, I can't blanketly say that that's what everybody needs to be doing because it can psychologically mess with people. But I will say that a lot of my most successful guys and gals, they have some sort of form of tracking their intake. Because using awareness and intuition, just, I wish it worked well, but when you got pizza in front of you and things like that, I intuitively would like to eat the whole pizza. You know what I mean? I do. Like, that's what I, I want to, so like, it's some sort of way to track themselves without relying on their, completely relying on their internal cues I think is very powerful. Having some sort of community support system and then, here's something that's like an X factor. The patients that become, I don't want to say obsessed, but borderline obsessed. Meaning that they buy in so much that it doesn't overtake their lives, but they just, it's a big part of their lives now. They love fitness. Those are the ones that do extremely well. I will say though that like you said, there may be something that, something about exercise feels better for them than other people that don't have that. something about, maybe something about their family and support system allows for them to do it without as much pain and suffering. So like, I don't know, but people, these people that buy into it and just get a little bit, a little bit crazy about it without making it pathologically crazy, they're the ones that do amazing. There's talk about like personality types as it pertains to training in the powerlifting world right now. So maybe there's like, you know, a little healthy dose of neuroticism that some of those people have that helps them, helps them adhere better. Yeah, I'm sure that, you know, if you went back and figured out people's natural temperaments, you know, that have been developed throughout childhood through into their mid-20s and figured out how that comported to their dietary success that you're going to see parallels like, well, this particular approach works for people with this level of neuroticism and this particular approach maybe works better for people who are, you know, a little more anxious or disagreeable. It's also like, it's also like you said that, you know, eating food and kind of this lifestyle stuff, it has a significant psychological and social component. So basically, you know, we're painting this picture of yet again like a biopsychosocial model for obesity and obesity management and so all your eating habits and what your parents did and all this stuff as a kid, like all of that plays a role in the same way that when we talk about pain, it's like, hey, what happened, you know, when you hurt your knee as a little kid and your mom like rushed and coddled you and everything over your knee pain, how does that translate into how do you respond to pain as an adult? So there's similar stuff, you know, when it comes to, you know, dietary, lifestyle, eating habits, social behaviors, things like that long term. Yeah, just take away five calories. That's the management. Well, yeah, so intuitive eating is actually like another hot dietary like intervention that's been making some waves. People are like, yeah, I just do intuitively and I've been getting a lot of questions about it and my response is if you are trying to make a large scale change in your behaviors, it's unlikely that your current psychological interaction with your environment will allow you to intuitively eat in a manner that makes you successful at losing weight or gaining weight. You know, if that's not a thing that you're trying to do. So you have to, you can't be intuitive when you're trying to make large scale changes. Now, if you've successfully dieted or gained weight for a long period of time, you may be able to intuitively be in maintenance mode, right? But because you've had so much practice, right? You're more skilled at the thing, but you can't intuitively eat your way to like weight loss, you know, if you're, if you're, you know, your BMI is 40, your waist is 45. That's, otherwise you would have done it. They've had trials and there is some weight loss, but it's very, it's not robust to what, you know, whatever term you want to use. It's not significant. I would, I wouldn't say clinically significant, but some of them have done a little bit. Okay. But I agree with you. Yeah. Once you've practiced, now you can probably say, all right, I can try to intuitively do what I was just doing. Particularly for maintenance, you know, but it's like, like, so like how many bodybuilding shows have you done? Spencer? I've only done one. But so if you had done, if you've done like 10, for instance, and you were trying to just lean out, you weren't trying to go get on stage again, but you were trying to like lean out some more for whatever particular reason. You could probably do that intuitively again, because you've had so much practice and experience doing so. But still, if you wanted to get on stage and like compete at a very high level, you're going to require more specific interventions, even with all that practice and experience. So, I mean, that's just, that's the same way with like training, you know, Austin, you and I, if we were just like, you know what, I don't know. I'm just, I'm not. If we just wanted to go in maintenance mode. You can wing it. Yeah. You can wing it. Yeah. And be okay. But if you're like, actually, I really want to deadlift 800 pounds, you know, you're going to have to take specific interventions to go do that. Okay. Shifting gears a little bit. I'm sure that's going to become a meme. I just want to talk, I have a few questions about exercise and medicine and kind of how they are integrated or not integrated. Um, so Dr. Nadolsky, can I call you Dr. Nadolsky? Uh, how important is exercise for overall health? Yeah, I would say, you know, if I have my pillars or whatever of, of health that, that it's, I would put it up there with nutrition and sleep, um, uh, just equally. So I would say it's physical activity, exercise in general, uh, is just as important. Eat less, move more, sleep more. That's the, that's your, that's it. Well, that's the, pack it up. Pack it up. We're done. Um, do you have any sort of gestalt or, or feeling, um, uh, about the following, the following statistics? So, uh, if you look at data on, um, the physical activity guidelines for adults that were originally put out in 2008, revised in 2010, it is suggested that 50% of Americans are meeting the physical activity guideline minimums for aerobic fitness, right? And, and a quarter of those are actually doing it for aerobic and resistance training, right? So a quarter of all Americans are meeting the minimum. Do you think, do you think that's accurate? Do you think that we're, I don't know, I don't know what, like, I, I'd like to see how they did the, the, the surveys. I don't, I mean, I'm getting a lot of selection bias with sampling bias or with my patients now, uh, cause they're coming all over the place. They've been following me for fitness and now they're coming to me online. But, um, uh, when I was in the clinic, most people in general, they didn't do a damn thing. Most normal people and like, whether it's lifting, whether it's running, biking, even if it was just walking and getting their steps in per day, I don't, very few people got what I would think is, uh, a good amount of exercise. I mean, that's been my experience too. Just, I mean, if 25% of my self-selected patient or client population was getting in the recommended, uh, amount of exercise that's put forth by those guidelines, I would be very surprised. And I mean, the data comes from like NHANES sort of questionnaire stuff where people are filling it out. And I think that there are people as likely to under report or over report activity as they are to under report calorie intake. It's like the average Americans eating 1800 calories and we're in training, you know, 10 hours a week. It's that's probably seems unlikely. Um, okay. So exercise obviously important for health. And I think that the data is very, uh, robust at, uh, at how regular activity improves outcomes for literally every physiological system, organ system that we have. I mean, you know, you go through a systems-based approach and you're finding, oh, wow. Yeah, it's good for cognition. Oh, it's good for your pulmonary health, the cardiorespiratory health. Like, yeah, okay. That's, that's a no-brainer. It seems like in my opinion, what about for weight management? You know, there's an exercise scientist somewhere in their parents' basement listening to this and they're saying, you know, well, exercise is important for like weight management, man. Like, you know, do these guys know that? What's your, what's your take on, on exercise for like weight management, weight loss, stuff like that? Yeah, so the idea of that we could just eat whatever we want and then outrun our fork, that's kind of been dismantled over the years that we have this constrained amount of energy that we can eventually burn just using exercise alone. But when they, when you look at the data, when you look at the average, it's about 300 minutes per week that helps with at least weight maintenance. And preventing weight regain and managing, yeah. Yeah. So, and you know, there needs to be some more trials actually looking at that, but from all these, all the different data that they're putting together, including randomized control trials, but other things and retrospective data, that's, that's about the amount that's optimal at least to keep the weight off or at least help from a physical activity standpoint. But from an actual weight loss standpoint, if you go from completely sedentary to just, minimal amounts, that will actually have a big, a big impact. But otherwise, I don't, I, you know, my biggest thing is I try to just get my patients to move any little bit because so many people just, at least in the clinic, like I said, now people are doing all sorts of stuff when they see me online, but in the clinic, people just didn't do anything. So I try to get them to walk, I try to get them at least two days a week of some sort of resistance training if they allow for it. Then hopefully I can get them to go bike riding and more walks with their spouses and that type of thing. So you're actually holding, like your recommendations are similar to the physical activity guidelines for adults, the twice weekly resistance training and either four days a week of moderate intensity cardio or three days of vigorous. resistance training at the very least. I mean, ideally, so like I always say it like this, I think two days a week of resistance training isn't going to get you the body or physique that you probably want. When people come in wanting to look better, I don't think two days a week is going to be optimal for that, but I think it's probably a minimal effective dose. I think ideally, you know, we could talk about three versus four, maybe five, six day splits and things like that, but using strength training as a means to hold on to your muscle mass well and continue to keep your bones strong too, by the way, is very important for women as they use then their diet specifically to decrease their fat mass. That would be ideal and then adding in a little bit of cardio aerobic! training just for cardio respiratory fitness and maybe to add in a little bit of extra caloric deficit to augment the process, but that's yeah, that's about that's about that's about Are you actually writing like exercise plans for patients or are you just giving them general guidelines? I have like templates that that I give very like most of the people that see me are more beginner type of people. Some are what they would consider intermediate, but I think most people are actually in the beginner. Like what most people, like I bench pressed, the most I did was I did 405 five times in college on a bench. Not the strongest family doctor. I never maxed. No, so I never I never I never squatted maxed or anything, but I was pretty strong. But like if somebody wanted more advanced training, I would send them to guys like you for that type of thing. but I find that most people could just have a progressive three day a week weight training program and just keep getting stronger and stronger and never even have to get into that more advanced training. So I find that giving them templates that they can do without pain and that's somewhat balanced tends to do the trick. And again, if they want to get more obsessive about it, which I think is great because those people tend to do the best, that's where I start sending them to guys like you who really get into the nuances of variables and training. Austin, do you have any comments on that as far as how you're, I mean, if you get somebody who's brand new, never lifted anything before, never exercised formally before or it's been some period of time, do you have any input on how you would actually go about prescribing exercise to them? Yeah, I think it's kind of similar to when you asked about Spencer's initial approach to a patient from a nutritional standpoint where you kind of have to get a sense of where they're coming from, what their fears might be, what kind of resources they have access to, things like that because it's easy to be like, you know, oh yeah, you just go to the local black iron gym and unrack a bar and squat it five times and it's like, I could be dealing with like, you know, a middle-aged female with like extensive history of like anxiety or depression and she lives in the inner city and she like, you know what I mean? So you get a sense for, you know, again, this whole kind of psychosocial context that people have going on, what they're, what they're, you know, I kind of would, after getting them on board with the idea of this is an important thing that you should do, I try to kind of fish from them, like what do you think is something that, you know, you might be able to start with doing that kind of thing rather than being kind of like very rigid top-down prescribing. If I can get a sense from them as to where we could start, assuming I'm going to have follow-up with this person to kind of nudge them in the direction of progressive overload over time, would probably be the place that I would start. And I would agree if I could get somebody started on two days as a minimum of resistance training and then eventually bump that up to three, that'd be great if I could get them to do one to two days of conditioning over time on top of that, which starts to push a lot of people's like scheduling and like time commitment willingness. But for the more, again, for the more neurotic types, for example, they might be willing to do that. I would totally go for that. And then I totally agree that most people are, you know, when they're coming in, they're in novice land as it pertains to physical development. And so we can introduce them to stuff. And then, you know, through the process, as with any other intervention you do, there's going to be some amount of dropout along the way. You're going to lose some people. Some people are going to do great. Again, this kind of spectrum of response. And then the high end of the responders, they're going to be the people that want to stick to it, get really hardcore, get more advanced. And that's where all the complicated training kind of stuff comes in is the better you want to get, the more complicated this stuff has to be. But for basic health outcomes, it really doesn't take that much. I put people basically on a block periodization, undulating waves of accommodating resistance. No, I mean, yeah, I agree. So a question we do get all the time is like, what is for health, general health? And I think you need to define that so it would just be the absence of premature morbidity or mortality secondary to physical, you know, inactivity. Like how much training do you actually need to do that? And I don't actually think it's that much. And so usually what I do is I'll describe this sort of physical utopia, like here's where I'd want you to be, you know, just and that's probably going to be that two to three times a week of resistance training, one to two or maybe more depending on the person, episodes of conditioning per week. Like that's where I want to go, right? So they have this idea like that's kind of like long-term planning. And I'm like, well, what can you do today? Right? Start there and then manipulate as you can to sort of go towards that aim. And I think, yeah, it's a bottoms-up approach to that. And I think if you really distill down the best evidence we have currently that the amount of training that you'd actually need to sort of optimize health outcomes is reasonably low, such that I think that everybody could do that, the bigger issue is going to be weight maintenance. And I think that to the degree you're going to use exercise as either a prevention of weight regain or additional calorie burn to sort of help, you know, the other interventions you're doing, that amount is going to vary. But, so I think that's good. Yeah, so we agree. We don't have to argue and come to fisticuffs. Well, I don't think so. Yeah, because it's like a J-shaped curve. I mean, you go from sedentary and then just a little bit. Now, like you said, yeah, the guidelines 150 minutes, whatever, but even just a little bit will go far away compared to if you go from a little bit to a lot of bit. That's my understanding. Yeah, there's like a plateau as far as health is concerned. And there's probably, there's an inflection point at some point where so much training or so many resources are being devoted or so many lifestyle choices or behavioral choices are being made towards performance where health actually tends to suffer on some level. Yeah, and that's high level performance. People will say, well, the highest level performers are the healthiest. It's like, I don't think you necessarily know what's going on under the hood on these folks. You know, another question we get a lot of times, very frequently that I think it'd be good for all of us to answer. You know, why do you think that doctors have a hard time prescribing exercise? You know, the, yeah, I think, I know it sounds cliche and we talk that doctors doesn't even lift. It was ingrained in me. It was ingrained in me at a young age. My dad was the wrestling football coach and chemistry teacher. He had the key to the weight room for the high school and there's videos of me and my brother. I was seven years old. He was like 11 or so and we were working out with my dad. So, you know, I always knew I was like, I want to use lifting as medicine. You, you very early had barbell medicine. You wanted to use lifting as medicine. You two guys are meatheads. I'm a meathead. We love lifting as medicine. Now, you take the average physician, probably didn't lift in high school, you know, a little bit of a bookworm. That's nothing wrong. They're smart people. There are people that are super smart doctors that don't lift. Better clinicians than will ever be maybe, but they never got that exposure. And so, in medical school, we don't learn about exercise. All we know is that exercise and lifestyle is good, but we don't learn the nuances of it. We don't get in depth into programming or whatever. And so, then you take that and then you go into practice and you're like, yeah, you should go run or something. I know that's exercise. You see people. Get out of my office. Get out of my office. Go eat less, move more. Go to the gym or something like that. If you yourself don't do it and don't see the amazing benefits of it and then you keep perpetuating this idea of just kind of going exercise and going running and whatever, if you don't see those benefits in your patients, you're not going to keep perpetuating the idea of resistance training as medicine and you're not going to look at the research anyway. We're very into it. We love resistance training. We love working out. And so, we love picking out all the studies that show resistance training is amazing. It's just as good as aerobic training in this situation. Combine them, you get even better results. Other people are just going to think exercise, they're thinking of aerobic training, that's what somebody else, some other doctor and what they remember from medical school, they're not even looking at the studies. That's why I think. Anyway. Austin, do you have any comment on that? Yeah, I agree. I think it's lack of experience themselves, lack of time in the clinical setting a lot of times. If you have a clinic practice set up where you're seeing 40 patients a day with 10 to 50 minute appointments and they have 12 problems to go through, that's obviously a difficult situation. Still working in that environment a little bit. exercise. And then, yeah, I mean, on top of that, it's basically that they are dispensing kind of the lay understanding of exercise with the authority of having the letters after their name. Yeah. Because they don't have experience with it. So all of a sudden, the same thing that you would hear anybody else talking about on the street, like, oh, just get a little exercise or walk more or like gardening is adequate exercise or something like that, all of a sudden carries this additional authority with it. And so even if you do give the exercise recommendations, they are hopelessly neutered in effectiveness. So, yeah. I agree. I mean, and that comports with the existing data, like, that is looked at, you know, what is the, you know, what are the stats of doctors recommending exercise in clinical practice and why they don't. So, you know, most of the time, they suggested that it's lack of time, lack of personal experience, right? So the doctor's like, I don't know what to do. I haven't done this before. And then they also say that, hey, if I'm out of shape, like, I'm not going to recommend like somebody else like exercise because there'd be cognitive dissonance there. You'd be like, well, you're out of shape. I'm out of shape. We should both exercise, but I'm not going to do it. So, yeah. So I actually don't think that's like a lack of resources, you know? I mean, their traditional response to something like this would be like, all right, well, let's make this huge initiative and go provide more resources and that's going to turn the time. But I think that, you know, if you look at that data and you take it to heart and you say, all right, so lack of time, more resources isn't really going to help that other unless that resources time, lack of personal experience that, you know, having more pamphlets out there for people to give to patients, that's not going to well, I'm saying, you know, like, hey, you should exercise and here's how you should do it. That's not going to necessarily help with personal experience. And then being out of shape, that's not necessarily going to be the initiative that's going to turn the tide. Rather, I think that currently our society, particularly in America, is big on physical fitness. I mean, you know, in the 50s and 60s, you know, people our age were going to concerts and, you know, smoking cigarettes and, you know, and other and doing other things. But the physical culture wasn't in the public eye, you know, the people weren't having protein bars on the regular for like their nutrition, you know, it's just different. So now I think with this latest like sort of importance placed on physical culture and your appearance and aesthetics and everything else, I actually think this is getting pushed more to the forefront. So I'm hoping that we can leverage that to get more doctor's training, more interest in this sort of thing. And, you know, at that point, resources like exercise as medicine that the ACSM came up with a few years ago will be very useful. But right now that resource exists, right? It's like this huge compendium of like data on exercise and how it can prevent disease and how you can refer and what you need to do. Just nobody's going to the website, you know? I assume that one day I'm going to go to the website and it's going to be like, GoDaddy now owns this domain because we failed to like update the thing. I remember it coming out in 2007-ish. That's right when I got into medical school and I was like, wow, this is amazing. And then it was a few years later. They hadn't even updated it. Like, and I was kind of like, what's going on here? And I thought it was the coolest thing ever and it just, yeah, it would be nice if that got into medical school. It's like, maybe everybody should have gym class in medical school. I think it'd be cool if there was, you know, a push for, yeah, we're going to have a, like a, in the preclinical years, we're having this sort of two year long, you know, physical well-being course. And there's like a culinary aspect to it. There's like a training aspect to it. And you're learning sort of these practical interventions that you can use when counseling patients. I mean, we start from our very first year of medicine, medical school, like, hey, here's how you talk to a patient. It's like, all right, cool. So we're learning stylistically how to do that and how to get the information we want. But as far as content-wise, we could use a little more training doing that. I'd much rather have that be a part of the curriculum than, you know, another problem-based learning group on, you know. Consider that you're standing on the edge of an airplane and the atmospheric pressure is this. You know, what goes on risk-free physiology-wise? Like that, I prefer that we have a physical well-being course or something like that. But at the Barbell Medicine University School of Medicine, we'll do that. BB-SOM. So stay tuned for my endowment. So, I mean, that's my future of exercise as far as lifestyle modification in clinical practice. Like that's, you know, people ask, what would you do if you got a billion dollars? What would you do? Well, I started medical school. That's what I'd do. And then, you know, I'd be in charge of, like, shaping the future, you know, where do you see the future of exercise as, like, a lifestyle modification or as adjunctive treatment in clinical practice? Where do you see that going, Spencer? I do. I see it becoming, I mean, there are places that are adding in, like, culinary courses. And I think it's the way of the future. I think we're kind of on that forefront of making it seem kind of sexy. You know, barbell medicine, you know, like people, I think, you know, and even CrossFit, you know, they're coming out with their CrossFit health thing. And, you know, I don't necessarily agree with all their messages, but they're putting, they're trying to get all physicians who are CrossFit certified if they want to. I don't know if it comes with a fee, but I know that's their initiative. I don't think it's a bad thing getting, you know, physicians into exercise. But I think, ideally, I think the coolest situation would have doctors clinics attached to gyms. That might be a little bit crazy sounding, but I think that would be pretty cool. You're removing barriers. You have a patient, you know, Jane Doe comes in and you're like, Jane, so we need to do this with your nutrition. Here's your specific intervention. We're going to have regular follow-up with our RDs down the, you know, down the hall. And we're going to have regular follow-up with me so I can evaluate this thing. And also, you know, the trainer is down the hall too. And you're going to go twice weekly, see this trainer, and they're going to give you the, your prescription. So these are handled in-house. That's exactly the situation I was talking about earlier, is like the impossible situation that we sometimes run into from a psychosocial standpoint. You're getting all that stuff out of the way and they can go down the hall and do it, which sounds, sounds awesome. And I agree that I think that probably the way, based on how medicine has kind of evolved, say, probably in the past 10 to 15 to 20 years, that it's going to become more of this multidisciplinary type deal where instead of, you know, the doctor's appointment just getting longer and longer and longer in order to address all the medical problems, you know, now we're seeing stuff like pharmacists kind of jumping into the clinic to help with some medication management or, you know, medication titration, insulin adjustments, blood pressure medicine, just stuff like that. We're going to see RDs jumping in. Hopefully we can see some, you know, some sort of, you know, training related thing, PTs, stuff like that would all be, you know, beneficial if we could, if we could kind of develop that sort of a system under one roof. Yeah. Yeah, it would be. You can just say, just, just go down the hall. That's the, yeah. Yeah. Very cool. Spencer, it's been awesome having you. I just want to give you an opportunity to kind of give your, your closing thoughts. This would be like the Jerry Springer section, you know, your final thoughts, anything that you want to put out into the interwebs for people. Yeah, no, I would just say, understand that obesity is a, is a complex disease. Whether you want to call it a disease or condition, I don't really care. It doesn't matter. I personally think of it as a disease. Just understand it's complex and it's hard to solve and it's not just going to be eat less, move more. Those are the components that need to be involved. It's doing that is going to be very difficult. I think that's one key component just to kind of wrap that up. Understanding that going from nothing to something in terms of physical activity and nutrition, improving nutrition is going to go a long ways as opposed to going from doing pretty well to this super unicorn optimal level of nutrition and exercise. exercise. That's basically my big thing. Getting people to do simple, basic stuff and if they want more advanced stuff, yeah, we could work on that. Get them to the right people. If they want to bench press and squat a million pounds, I'll get them to you guys type of thing. But just getting people going from nothing to something is what I'd like to do. Well, we will be sure to thank you for this interesting consult on the bench press. Plan for primary. Okay, great. And then where can people find you? Where are you at on the social medias? How can people contact you? Instagram is at Dr. Nadolsky, D-R-N-A-D-O-L-S-K-Y. Facebook's Dr. Dr. period Spencer Nadolsky. And then my blog is Dr. Spencer dot com. D-R-S-P-E-N-C-E-R dot com. And also Dr. Lift. Dr. Lift. I think you were on Dr. Lift before as well. But maybe we need to put both of you guys on there. Nice. Docs who docks who lift dot org. No. Okay, cool. Well, hey, thanks for joining us, Austin. Thanks for being here as always. Yeah, thanks. Barbell Medicine crew. Thanks for tuning in. We'll catch you guys next time. All right. Over on the barbell medicine dot com website or Amazon dot com. We are selling Perry Rx. That is our Perry workout blend. We have two versions without caffeine, one version with caffeine for those who want to treat it as a pre-workout. It's got everything you need from a Perry workout supplementation standpoint to improve your performance, maximize your recovery. Hopefully you see a little benefit. We also sell a very high quality whey protein Iceland. That's also available on the Amazon dot com website or our website, barbell medicine dot com. European European European European European you