 ab excuses, physically active and otherwise healthy. After a two-day period of binge eating and rapid weight gain, he decides on a radical course of action. He starts exercising like crazy and eating at a massive deficit. In the next two weeks, he loses 22 pounds or about 13% of his starting body weight. By the end of that time, he also realizes something is wrong. He can't lift his right foot. It hangs limp. To move around, he has to lift his knee towards his chest in an exaggerated, high-stepping motion just to keep his toes from dragging on the floor. He waits. He hopes it will resolve. But a year later, the paralysis is still there. And today, we're breaking down the medical mystery case of the paralyzed personal trainer. Welcome back to the Barber Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm doing okay. Excited to be here. Feeling well, how are you? I'm all right. I got another mystery case for you involving a frequent guest of our podcast, the personal trainer. My prediction is that you're not gonna get it. 50-50 shot, it's a supplement problem. Could be, could be. Are you ready? I think so. I think so. Can I have one little preamble first? So just an interesting kind of anecdote is that we heard from a podcast listener recently who after listening to one of our other recent mystery case episodes that ended up being a case of vitamin D toxicity ended up actually recognizing symptoms in himself that were potentially related. Got his lab tests checked, and sure enough, he had also vitamin D toxicity. And then this is another case that I saw recently in my telemedicine patient population, a woman whose vitamin D level was just reported as greater than 150, essentially off the charts, off behind of the chart. And that was many months ago. And I asked, what were you told to do after that lab result? And she told me that she was told to reduce her high dose vitamin D supplementation from taking it twice weekly down to taking it once weekly. I said, that is also unwise, and we should probably stop it altogether because this is gonna last a long time before it gets better. And so we've caught multiple cases of vitamin D toxicity now in people who are kind of supplementing not truly like mega dosing, just taking more than they need in inappropriate contexts. So, you know, buyer beware out there. Is this vitamin D maxing? Is that what this is called? An inadvisable strategy. We're currently in fiber maxing mode, so advise that over vitamin D maxing. Great. All right, well, Austin, I have a console for you. Okay, let's do it. The patient is a 24 year old male. He's in the emergency room right now. He came in because his new girlfriend finally convinced him to get his foot looked at. For the last year, he says that his right foot has been dragging whenever he walks. Prior to that, he says he's never had any issues with his feet or his ankles, but that he probably should have gotten it looked at sooner. He says that a year ago, he went off the rails on his diet for about two days. And afterwards, he started a rapid weight loss plan where he reportedly lost 22 pounds in two weeks. He was also exercising during this time, which involved a lot of high intensity sprints, squats, and aggressive stretching. Since then, he's had this foot issue every time he walks or tries to run. He reports tripping frequently if he tries to move too quickly and that he's had to go a little lighter on legs, but otherwise he's able to work out normally. He denies any back pain, any numbness in the groin, any bowel or bladder changes, or any trauma to the area. So Austin, we've got this 24 year old with a one year history of foot drop that appeared out of the blue. The initial story involves high intensity sprints, deep squats, and aggressive stretching, but it happened right as he lost about 13% of his body mass in about two weeks. So when you see a young active guy whose foot isn't working, yet he doesn't have any back pain or trauma, how do you go about building your differential? Is he getting imaging immediately, or are you headed to the lab? Cool case, okay. So I'm gonna actually rewind a little bit from some of the kind of specificity that you layered into the case. So oftentimes when we start these things, we have a lot of clinical information, context, who the patient is, their past medical history, their details, and that kind of already gets you going in terms of narrowing things, but I like to start as broad as possible. And so I'm gonna like, you know, back up from the fact that he's young, that he's previously healthy, that he had that backstory and just say, I have a patient who is experiencing what you're telling, labeling as foot drop, or we could just, we could say there's some kind of like weakness going on in the foot, subjective, until we prove it objectively on our testing. And this is a relatively common problem just when somebody has the concern of weakness is really what I'm gonna start with, as broad and general as that is. The question when we start out with that is, is it just this kind of like generalized weakness? The person is feeling weak all over. What does that really mean? How are they describing it? How are they experiencing it? Is it more fatigue? Is it weakness in terms of shortness of breath? Sometimes people feel dizzy and they say that they feel weak, or is it what we'll call more focal? Is it in a specific area of the body? Are they unable to lift a particular limb or multiple limbs? Are they unable to lift both of their arms? Are they having trouble standing up out of a chair? These are all different things that can help us try to narrow down on where could this problem live in the patient's body. With weakness that is kind of true weakness that there's an area of the body that is not able to be moved quite normally, the way we think about it is kind of, what is the normal physiological pathway to be able to exert force? And so that all starts up in the brain. You start in the brain with kind of your pre-motor cortex, and I'm not gonna go through all the details of that, but the conscious centers that initiate volitional movement, those send their signals down the neurological axis from the brain down to the spinal cord to the nerve roots. Those come out in the spinal nerves that come out from there, those end in neuromuscular junctions that then meet up with the muscle, and then that muscle is signaled by way of depolarization, some ion shifts, things like that to contract, that muscle contraction pulls on a tendon across a joint and then moves the body part. And so we think from start to finish along that entire pathway to try to identify where could this problem be that would best explain the pattern of weakness that the patient has. So if it's in one very particular area of the body, that does tend to narrow down the places that we look. It tends to be more, is there a problem in the brain in a very particular spot? For example, people might be familiar with, oh, this patient had a stroke, and now they're not able to lift their arm afterwards. Obviously that tends to manifest much more abruptly unless the patient has it, and then for whatever reason doesn't notice it or doesn't think much of it and comes in a year later. That strokes tend to be more sudden, abrupt onset type phenomena. The other end of that kind of axis, the nerve axis as we'll call it, tends to be things at the level of the joint, the tendon, the muscle, and the nerve ending that supplies that muscle, or the nerve that supplies that muscle. Those are all other areas that can have problems leading to weakness in a particular area. So if somebody has a joint problem, they have a ruptured tendon, if there's a muscle that for whatever reason is torn or is not working for some reason, and then if there are problems like a neuropathy or a nerve problem that makes it unable to kind of stimulate and trigger that muscle to fire. Problems that arise in the spinal cord, and those are less likely in this situation because they tend, they're gonna be less likely to be so localized to just the foot. We're gonna expect to find more often other problems, like some of the things you mentioned, whether the patient might have some back pain or some urinary problems, or they would be maybe a little bit more likely to have symmetric problems on two sides of the body instead of just one foot, for example. And then thinking about the timeline of how long this has lasted. Again, I mentioned that strokes, for example, or other kind of like vascular problems tend to be sudden or abrupt, whereas the things that tend to last or develop over longer periods of time or last longer, they might be, for example, an infectious cause or an inflammatory cause that can impact the nerves, there are autoimmune diseases that can lead to nerve problems that can lead to a foot drop, for example. There can be toxic, metabolic, deficiency-type issues that can lead to nerve problems. So people with heavy alcohol use, I've actually seen this exact thing happen in people who drink far too much on an alcohol-related binge and have other sorts of concomitant problems, deficiencies, things like that. And then lastly, the other aspect of, instead of kind of these more generalized problems that can affect the health and function of nerves, would be, is there something mechanical or structural going on that is affecting the nerve? And so with foot drop in particular, that is one where there is a particular nerve that tends to be affected, and that nerve splays around the area of the knee. You can speak more to this with your background masters in anatomy, I'm more the physiology guy here. But that nerve wraps around the head of the fibula, and that then goes down and serves to fire the muscles that would help you actually lift your foot. So if there's something structural, mechanical going on in that region, for example, when people have a fibular fracture, I believe, is an example of something where that kind of trauma to that area can impact the bone and lead to a foot drop. So to summarize all of that, there's a big differential diagnosis for weakness in general. It narrows a little bit when you have weakness in a particular area. And then I'm trying to differentiate in this case, is it's something going on in the brain, a bit less likely, but not impossible, versus something more local, meaning at the level of the nerve, the muscle, the junction, things like that down in that area. And so that's kind of what I'm gonna be interrogating a little bit more for this patient. Yeah, I really like that sort of concept map that you just laid out as far as how to go from, all right, here is this problem, in this case, weakness, and how would you work through this, just in a general sense? I actually really like that for learning or even just thinking about how stuff that happens with humans anyway, you could do it for almost any either behavior or any sort of action or any sort of disease. So anything from eating all the way to like diabetes, like what needs to be involved for this thing to happen, maybe unfortunately or fortunately, depending on your perspective, you may highlight a lot of gaps in knowledge. And that happens to me quite frequently when I started thinking through an issue, I'm like, I don't really know much about that particular area. You end up down a rabbit hole and you realize you don't know even more, in which case you call an answer. Yeah, I do this a lot when I'm teaching and I have learners, residents, students with me, and they're trying to, I'm watching them try to come up with their differential diagnosis or their plan, and I just have them like pause and rewind, just like walk me through your thought process. And that simple question often gets just like wide eyes. And despite a valiant attempt, it is very quickly apparent to me how much of a grasp the person has on this topic or whether they have one of those sort of what we call well-designed kind of frameworks or schema for this problem. So what I laid out is every time I see a patient with weakness somewhere, I'm doing that exact exercise, thinking through top to bottom, where could this problem be? What could explain this? And then layering that on top of the timeline, how quickly did it develop or how long has it been going on to narrow it further? Yeah, I remember on an anatomy test, we had this, so when I was in my master's program, it's different than med school, which mostly had multiple choice type answers. That's just to standardize everything. But for the master's program, they were like, now we'll read your stuff. So just write this answer. And it was like, imagine a patient gets shot from the front of his chest, take me through all of the anatomical structures that this bullet would pass through. Yep, exactly. Immediately apparent, do you know your stuff or do you not? All right, let's dive back into this. Like it's who wants to be a millionaire, the music comes in and the lights go down low. All right, Regis. Back to our patient. Let's dive into some of this objective data to see if we can get you closer to a diagnosis. So his vital signs are normal and he appears to be a healthy young man and no apparent distress sitting upright in bed. He's already had an extensive lab workup in the emergency room. So his metabolic panel and his chemistry labs are normal, suggesting that, for example, he doesn't have anemia and his kidneys and liver appear to be functioning relatively normally. Also had a TSH, his thyroid stimulated hormone, a hemoglobin A1c to look at his fasting blood sugar, blood sugar control over the past few months and his vitamin B12 are all stone cold normal as well. They also ran some inflammatory markers, his ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and his CRPC, reactive protein, those were both normal. And of course your favorite, he had an A&A run to look for maybe some sort of autoimmune contribution that was negative. Now on the physical exam, the motor deficit shows significant abnormalities. He's got zero out of five strength in right ankle dorsiflexion, trying to pull his toes up towards his shin and zero out of five strength in foot E version, trying to rotate his heel outwardly. The anterior and lateral compartments of the lower limb, so the front and the side are completely silent. However, his foot inversion, trying to rotate his heel inwardly, is rock solid, five out of five strength there. His plantar flexion, trying to push down against the ground at the level of the ankle, is also five out of five. We also checked his hip abduction and extension, both were symmetric and five out of five in strength. Visually, he has significant atrophy over the tibialis anterior, that's the muscle on the front of the leg, and his peroneal muscles, given that lower leg kind of a hollowed out appearance next to the shin. But the calf remains well-developed and muscular. For reflexes, his patellar and Achilles reflexes are plus two and symmetric. Sensation-wise, he's mostly intact, but he does describe a sort of dead feeling or numbness on the top of his foot, specifically in the triangular patch of skin between his big toe and his second toe, that web space. Sensory exam over the lateral calf is preserved. He also had him walk the hall, and when he did, he had to lift his right leg up really high for each step, and then his foot sort of slapped down on the ground each time. And in the ED, they said, well, look, foot drop equals bad back, so they actually sent him for some imaging. So he had plain x-rays or radiographs of the lumbar spine, the pelvis, and his right lower limb. Those were all unremarkable. He then had a MRI of his lumbar spine to look for a disc herniation or signs of nerve damage, and the report just came back. The back is pristine. No disc herniations, no foraminal stenosis, and the lumbosacral plexus looked entirely normal. So, Austin, we've got this year-long weakness with an apparently clean spine and a patient who just spent the two weeks preceding this on a crash diet. If the MRI says the source isn't the back, and history says that it started exactly when the weight vanished, how are you changing your differential, if anything? Yeah, I realized that in my prior discussion, I kept it general the whole time and never focused in on the specific context, which I'll do now, because I do have a suspicion of what could be going on here. I think the most remarkable thing about all this, honestly, is I want to know what ER has the interest, the willingness, and the capacity to do that amount of work up on a guy who came in after a year of this symptom and sent him for an MRI in the ER. That should not have happened. End of the month quotas, quotas. This is not an emergency, a department problem. But yeah, some of those labs, a little bit helpful. Most of them, I was not really expecting much to be abnormal about them. Again, I think that my suspicion of something going on in this patient's brain, which interestingly was not addressed at all here, is very, very, very low. The idea of something going on in his back, also quite low, based on the history. The exam that you're describing is just a total classic foot drop exam. What you describe as what's called a high stepping gate. And then the specific pattern of dorsiflexion and eversion being gone while maintaining the functions of the other muscles in the lower leg that are not served by that nerve. So this is a very, very focal process. There still can be generalized systemic diseases that manifest with a single nerve being down. However, not for a year. So for example, I mentioned some of those autoimmune conditions. There are certain kinds of vasculitis, for example, that can cause neuropathies developing all over the body. We call that something called mononuritis multiplex that can happen. But again, he's had one nerve that has been down for a year and no other issues that have developed. So already that takes many of those kinds of small vessel vasculitis off the table. This is much more likely now to be a local, much more likely to be a structural mechanical type problem in that area than it is something more generalized systemic, like an autoimmune disease or a deficiency, like thymine related issues that they measured B12. That wouldn't manifest this way either. So things like that. So now I'm much more honed in on something is probably going on in that particular area. And I would want to take a closer look at the level of the knee and the lower leg and the foot, which we did a pretty good neuro exam from what was described here. There has not been apparent trauma that happened in the area. The context of rapid weight loss. So let's talk through what can happen in that situation. There can be metabolic changes that can happen with rapid weight loss in terms of, say, fluctuations in glycemic issues, lipid changes that happen in the blood we've talked before. Not for example, when people undergo rapid weight loss, how that can increase the risk of gallstone formation and other sorts of things like that. Not at all relevant to this case, but just examples of there are certain physiologic changes that we expect to find when people undergo rapid weight loss in various ways. If the patient is on certain medicines and they lose a whole bunch of weight, maybe the medicine that they're taking suddenly is way more than they need and that can end up leading to downstream problems. But there are also some interesting structural and mechanical type changes that can happen. And so some of the medical students in the audience might recognize or they might have heard, for example, in the abdomen, there are certain mechanical and structural changes that can happen when people undergo rapid weight loss. So there is some normal amount of, I don't know about calling it healthy necessarily, but ever present, body fat in our abdominal compartment, for example, that sits under some of our celiac and mesenteric vessels. And so one issue that can arise when people undergo rapid weight loss is the loss of that body fat that can lead to a change in some of the configuration of those vessels, particularly as they relate to the gut. And so things like the relationship between the, I forget if it's the celiac artery or the superior mesenteric artery and the small bowel, and then that can lead to some functional obstruction, essentially, because you don't have that added padding around it. So that's one well-described phenomenon of what happens when there is a rapid loss of this fat depot in that area. And so in this context, the things that I'd be thinking about, somebody with rapid significant weight losses, A, much less likely was there some kind of deficiency that developed? No. That doesn't fit this story, this patient, that timeline. Like if you underwent two days of binge eating, he probably topped himself off on nutrients for a long period of time and vitamins and all those kind of things that can lead to this. And so losing a bunch of weight in the aftermath, you would still not become abruptly deficient, nor would you stay deficient enough to lead to this presentation for a year afterwards. So that doesn't fit at all the timing and the context here. So I'm much more concerned about a mechanical, like a local structural type phenomenon. I'd be curious about what has his weight trajectory been ever since that initial weight loss? Like did he lose that 22 pounds? And then he either maintained it or he continued to lose weight. Because if he had, then that could actually fit, where there is some normal body fat in all of these little areas. And when you lose it, there can become structural and mechanical changes. And there is this phenomenon known as slimmer's paralysis, where patients who lose a bunch of weight abruptly, they can end up with issues in the legs, including things like foot drop as a result of, just like in that abdominal compartment losing body fat, changing the orientation of the nerves and the muscles relative to the bones. And they can become compressed and a compressed nerve, a chronically compressed nerve is an unhappy nerve that doesn't really work as well to fire the muscles. And that can lead to the downstream dysfunction and atrophy and things like that. So that's kind of what I'm worried about. What I would do next, of course, is look back at his weight trajectory to see what exactly has happened there. And then I might engage, because I don't personally perform things like nerve conduction studies or something like that. And if that is, I don't even think it's really necessary to make the diagnosis here. But if you wanted to, for academic purposes, to really localize the lesion to that focal site, that would be a way to do that. Well, fortunately or unfortunately, again, depending on your perspective, you're going to have to do some interpretation of some nerve conduction studies. Don't worry, I've tried to make this as accessible as possible not only for you, but also for our audience and for me, certainly. Yeah, yeah. This is stuff that's typically in the territory of neurologists and PM&R or physiatry doctors, not internists, but what we do. I turfed this to my neurology friend to get some feedback on this to make sure we're accurate. So since the spine was clean on the MRI, we do have to start looking elsewhere, like the muscles and nerves themselves. You walked us through that process quite nicely. So electrodiagnostic studies were ordered, which are divided into two parts here. One, nerve conduction study, and then electromyography, which you might know better as EMG. Now, for the listeners at home, you can think of the nerve conduction studies as a technician testing a fiber optic cable. They tap into one end of the nerve. They send a pulse down it, and they measure three specific things. First, they measure latency. This is the time it takes for the signal to start, essentially the reaction time of the nerve. Second, they measure amplitude. This is the strength or the volume of the signal, which tells us how many individual nerve fibers or axons are actually alive and functioning. And third, they test velocity, the speed at which the signal travels down the wire, which tells us if the insulation or myelin sheath is still intact. Now, in this patient, when they tested the motor division of the common peroneal nerve, the results were definitive, non-recordable across the board, no latency, no amplitude, and no measurable velocity. The motor division, the nerve's responsible for the muscles that lift the foot and turn it outward weren't working. For the anatomy nerves at home, the common peroneal nerve, as you mentioned earlier, splits into the deep peroneal nerve, which controls the tibialis anterior for dorsiflexion. Again, it's bringing your toes back towards the shin. And it also splits into the superficial peroneal nerve, which controls the peroneus longest and brevis on the outside of the lower limb for eversion, turning the foot outwardly. In this case, the entire common peroneal distribution below the knee was silent. They also checked F-waves. This is a round-trip signal that travels from the point of stimulation at the leg all the way up to the motor neurons in the spinal cord and back down again. It acts as a sort of long-range scout to see if there's a blockage anywhere from the foot to the spine. In this patient, the F-waves were also non-recordable. But then there's a twist. His sensory nerve conduction was completely normal. This measures nerves that carry feeling from the skin back to the brain. This tells us that the injury was selectively targeting the motor axons while leaving the sensory fibers largely untouched. Next, we move to the needle EMG or electromyography. This is where they stick a small electrode directly into the muscle to look at its electrical activity. Now, normal resting muscles are pretty quiet. But if a muscle has lost its nerve supply, the fibers can become kind of irritable. They start firing on their own. Now, this is a sign that the muscle has lost its nerve supply, which is also called denervation. In this patient, the tibialis anterior and the peroneal muscles showed heavy denervation. This is obvious from the atrophy that we saw in physical exam. But there's also an electrical signature called fibrillation potentials, which are these small little waves that you can pick up on EMG, another sign that the muscles have been denervated. Interestingly, when the short head of the biceps femoris, that's part of your hamstrings muscle, was tested, something strange was found. This is the only muscle supplied by the peroneal nerve that branches off above the knee. And in this patient, that muscle was stone cold normal. So, Austin, let's look at the map we've drawn. We've got a 24-year-old male with a clean MRI. We've got a nerve that can still carry sensory information, but its muscle division isn't working. The electrical block has been precisely localized. Everything above the knee is working, but everything below the knee is electrically silent from that nerve. Given that this apparently started right after his weight loss and high-intensity exercise program, do you have a final diagnosis for what the heck happened to this patient? Yeah, this has only further supported my suspicion so far. And one curiosity here, I mean, he did seem to mention that he had a little bit of some maybe subjective numbness on the dorsum of the foot, which could also fit with some of the sensory distribution of these nerves. Maybe it wasn't enough of a sensory dysfunction to be detected by the study, but yeah, a lot of that is, I would say not necessarily above my pay grade, but adjacent to it because the details of those studies are not really in my field. But yeah, this really heavily localizes it to the level of the knee. And so my suspicion is that there was either some unknown, unrecognized, unappreciated trauma with his high-intensity exercise at the time that affected the nerve at his knee during that time, or this is a case of, again, rapid weight loss induced, so-called slimmer paralysis, where the rapid fat loss in that area leads to functional kind of compression of the nerve. And again, if his weight dropped and has remained low or he never regained body fat to kind of restore padding in that area, the nerve would not really have a ability to kind of recover its function, innervate that muscle and lead to him to be able to lift his foot again. So that's kind of where I'm at. Color me impressed. The diagnosis is slimmer paralysis, historically known as dieting palsy. It is a nerve entrapment of the common peroneal nerve at the fibular head. It was once a historical rarity associated with prisoners of war and individuals with severe anorexia nervosa, but there's some concern that there could be a modern spike or uptick in cases with the increased popularity of GLP-1s. Now, the pathophysiology you did describe is mostly a functional compression, but there's some thought there's a second hit, so this sort of two-hit model. As you talked about, hit number one is the depletion of that internal armor of fat. The common peroneal nerve is pretty vulnerable because it is tethered as it winds around the neck of the fibula. That's the outside smaller bone in your lower limb. In a healthy state, it's enveloped by the structural fat pad. The fat pad acts as a mechanical shock absorber, and it physically increases the space in the fibular tunnel so the nerve isn't pinched against the bone. Now, when this guy lost 11 kilos, 22 pounds in two weeks, the body presumably mobilized fats that were so rapidly that it stripped away the structural fat pad. And so without that cushion, the nerve was left sitting directly on the bone, leaving the margin of safety for compression at zero. Now, the second hit is the mechanical provocation. So he was doing the high-intensity sprain squats, aggressive stretching, whatever that means, while his fat pad was progressively getting thinner. And so when active, that nerve needs the fat pad to dissipate pressure. Otherwise, the pressure on the nerve can get too high and disrupt blood flow to the nerve. The nerve do have a blood supply. It's pretty delicate. It's called the vasovazorum. Now, when this blood supply is compromised, nerve conduction temporarily stops, call that neuropraxia. If it's prolonged, though, the nerve can die, and it must regrow from the side of injury. And this process is slow. There's wallery and regeneration, like a millimeter a day. It's slow and it can be incomplete. That's what apparently happened to this patient. By the time he got to the emergency room, the damage was done. He had spent 12 months with basically zero motor signal reaching those muscles. The receivers, the motor end plates, and the muscles of the shin, the side of his leg, had undergone some fibrosis. They were no longer capable of receiving a signal, even if the nerve did manage to grow back. So at that point, his treatment plan shifted from neurological recovery to orthopedic salvage. He underwent a posterior tibialis tendon transfer. Essentially, the surgeons took a functioning muscle from the back of his leg and anchored it to the top of his foot. Kind of had to retrain himself how to walk and to pull his foot up with his new hardware. So there's a thought that this might be coming more common, like a pharmaceutical slimmer. The GLP-1 agonist like Terzepotide and Ritatchetide can induce weight loss velocities that mimic bariatric surgery. And while the weight of weight loss isn't necessarily a problem when it's appropriately monitored, inappropriate use, and specifically facilities that are like pill mills could be increasing the risk of this. Now the incidence of general peripheral neuropathy following metabolic bariatric surgery is reported to be somewhere between 5% to 15%. Now that's after surgery. And within this broad category, the peroneal mononuropathy, so single nerve issue, is one of the most frequently cited presentations. Historically, again, as prisoners of war, and the incidence was about 10% in these individuals, I assume that would happen over a longer period of time, just due to what was happening. But in surgical cohorts, the latest evidence we have on this is a suggest a higher percentage than 10%, maybe closer to 15%, mostly at high volume centers. And the incidence is probably underappreciated because it's underreported. And potentially mild transient cases could be missed as temporary numbness. So the condition is overwhelmingly unilateral or one-sided. 96% of cases are on one side rather than being bilateral, which speaks to this systemic sort of.  and you're losing weight all over the place. Why does it happen in one side versus the other? I don't have any idea. Maybe you can make it for it? Yeah. Just chance and maybe some sort of subtle side-to-side difference or the way you use your body or the way this guy was doing his exercise maybe favored not in a bad way but just the way he tends to move to your point about having a second hit but I think mostly it's probably just going to be chance. Yeah. Originally when this was first described, it was like cross-legged palsy, a cross-legged because that would be the inciting event, the mechanical sort of thing that put it over the top. When studied, the most critical marker risk factor is the velocity of weight loss. So on average, people that get this are losing about 10% of their body weight per month, which ends up being about 5.4 kilos in this particular cohort. So there's also some additional risk factors that are kind of uniquely affect this population. So first off, the population that generally goes about rapid weight loss, or uses metabolic bariatric surgery or GLP-1s, they tend to be more commonly individuals with the history of metabolic syndrome or type 2 diabetes. So there's already perhaps some baseline metabolic neuropathy going on. And then these individuals can undergo rapid weight loss, which mobilizes the fat from those structural fat pads at this particularly vulnerable area, removing that shock absorber. And then, yeah, there's a biomechanical trigger potentially. So prolonged leg crossing, squatting, kneeling, et cetera, all of this could kind of put it over the edge. And there may be some co-occurring micronutrient deficiencies, specifically for folks who've had metabolic bariatric surgery and are being not monitored as closely nutrition wise. So like vitamin B1, thiamine, B12 or copper deficiency can all synergistically impair the nerve's ability to repair itself. And a nerve starved of these essential vitamins is less resilient to perhaps that ischemic stress, lack of blood flow caused by the collapse of that fibular tunnel. It's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. Now, if you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep or cook, factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dieticians and crafted by chefs that you could eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet, or even a plant-based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, factor has you covered. And when I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen, and factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen, and a meal's ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home cooked meal without the stress. If your schedule is busy like mine, I think factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash bbm50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with the code and qualifying auto renewing subscription purchases. Make healthier, eating easy with factor. That's factormeals.com slash bbm50off. New year, colder days, this is the moment where your winter wardrobe actually has to deliver some measurable results. Quinn springs together premium materials and enduring quality so that you stay warm and you look sharp all season long. I look at clothing like a training program. I want high utility and zero waste. Usually luxury gear has a massive markup that doesn't actually correlate to quality, at least not all of the time. But Quinn cuts out the middlemen to deliver luxury materials, like cashmere, wool, and Italian leather, all at a fraction of the price. Their outerwear is particularly impressive. From down jackets to wool coats, everything is made by trusted factories with rigorous ethical standards. I've been wearing some of their cashmere sweaters lately because the holiday party round, you know? Now they're soft, they're durable, and they're holding up better than brands that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresher winter wardrobe at quints.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365 day returns. They're now in Canada too. That's quince.com slash bbm, free shipping and 365 day returns, quints.com slash bbm. So treatment typically revolves around weight stabilization, perhaps some B vitamin supplementation, orthosis for the foot. So just to keep it in the correct positions, you don't get a contracture and so on. If there's no clinical or electric diagnostic evidence of recovery after about three months, surgical decompression is sometimes indicated because they don't want those motor end plates. So basically where the nerve attaches to the muscle, that end plate, that interface, they don't want that to fibrose or degenerate because otherwise you're kind of up a creek like our patient. But after in chronic cases, like what he had, yeah, you're gonna have to have a tendon transfer so you can walk without your foot kind of slap in the ground. Yeah, I did not know that that was a thing that could be done to manage this. So I'm glad there's some kind of creative orthopods out there who can put people back together again a different way. But yeah, you have to relearn how to like use that newly transplanted muscle and presumably has permanent impact on function. You have to kind of relearn how to do basic things, I imagine with the help, but that's what PM and our doctors are great at. So yeah. Now, Austin, there's been a few case reports that have come out of individuals on GLP ones having this. One case was actually titled the Terzepetide Drop. Have you seen this with any patients? Is this something that's on your radar? Yeah, I've used these medicines with lots and lots of folks. I've not seen this happen yet, although I'm aware of it as an entity. And I think it's one of those things that is a known risk. It is one of the potential trade-offs that somebody might experience, but at the same time, it is one of the downsides of again, just like unmonitored, overly rapid weight loss. And so having kind of it done in a way that is monitored, that is supported, where doses are being adjusted, where nutrition is being monitored. I mean, I've had also patients who I'm actually concerned that maybe their appetite is being suppressed too much and they're not actually getting in enough nutrition as they are losing weight. And that sets them up for all sorts of other deficiencies and iron deficiency and things like that. So, you know, I'm quite comfortable using these medicines. I've been using them for a while now with many, many patients, with great, some, with most of them, I would say, with great success and some who have speed bumps along the way that need to be kind of navigated individually. But yeah, that kind of monitoring and guidance along the way, I think is important rather than just like more is better or faster, no matter what. Yeah, yeah, I wanna bring this case up, not only because it's interesting, I did find it interesting, but because it also raises a fundamental question in our field, is faster actually better when it comes to weight loss? We often hear the argument that rapid initial weight loss is more motivating for the patient or the client, which theoretically could improve long-term adherence. But as this case proves, there can be a physiological cost. So I wanted to pivot the discussion towards the actual evidence on weight loss velocity. We need to look at the trade-off between the speed of the result and the quality of the tissue loss, specifically the preservation of lean body mass and the avoidance of collateral fattening, which is a physiological phenomenon where the body aggressively drives overeating following a period of weight loss to restore the lost lean body mass. And while doing so, the individual actually gains a bunch of fat mass alongside the lean mass. So let's start with the most obvious question. Does the data support the slow and steady mantra when it comes to weight loss? There's a safety concern, we've kind of talked about that. This slimmer paralysis mostly related to a weight loss velocity that exceeds 10% of total body weight per month, which would be quite high for most folks. And you brought up gallstones and nutritional deficiencies. Are there any other risks or safety concerns that you have top of mind when somebody's losing weight relatively quickly? I think you alluded to one of them being that, hey, are we having some unfavorable changes in terms of the lean body mass aspect? There are certainly many favorable things. So for example, if somebody has fatty liver disease, I would expect that to get better rapidly as people, because the liver starts rapidly exporting a bunch of that fat. I think I would have to sit down and think like organ system by organ system to decide are there concerns from a neurological standpoint. We really covered the main one of deficiencies or the mechanical neuropathies that can develop. Not much from a pulmonary standpoint, not much from a renal standpoint. I'm sure there can be some things from a cardiovascular side mainly relating to, as they're hypovolemia, meaning is the person not eating or drinking enough and they end up getting low blood pressure, they get dizziness, they might be more likely to pass out. That's something that I've actually seen a fair amount of and people, for example, who are on blood pressure medicines often need those to be adjusted. The other thing with especially like aggressive crash diets, things like that, where people are more prone to electrolyte abnormalities, you can end up with cardiovascular complications, arrhythmia as things like that that can develop. Let's see what else. I mentioned the liver, the gallstones we've talked about, the intraabdominal fat, which itself, the gallstone risk can, I've not seen like rapid weight loss associated pancreatitis, but that's probably, that may be a thing that can happen whether by way of a gallstone or if you're liberating a lot of free fatty acids into the bloodstream and you get like severe high triglycerides, I guess that's another way that you could get there. And then again, not much in terms of the lower GI tract or the kidneys or definitely the genitourinary tracts, not much that comes to mind. And then from there, it's musculoskeletal nature. So the muscle mass loss is the thing that comes to mind. I don't know how much of an impact I would expect with very short-term rapid weight loss on bone health. I'm sure there'd be something detectable, whether that translates into a negative longer term outcome, it'd be hard to say. So that's my like rapid pass through the organ systems and what I can think of off the top of my head. Yeah, I think that's quite good. The only other thing that comes to mind is maybe on the back end, right? It's like, great, you lost the weight, you know, that's the target, but if and when weight regain starts, if it's rapid and you are really restricted for a period of time, the refeeding syndrome type thing, we've had cases of like, thyroid toxic periodic paralysis and some other, just electrolyte abnormality stuff. So yeah, that's a concern. So that's safety, moving on to what our listeners are probably more interested in, body composition. So the impact of weight loss speed or weight loss velocity on muscle mass differs significantly between athletes and lean individuals and the general population with obesity. So for athletes, the data for sure supports slow and steady. Now, there is some nuance here because there are papers out there describing relatively quick dramatic weight loss to make weight with preserved performance. There are a few different ways to do this. It's not highly reliable or conserved across everybody. It kind of varies significantly. We're gonna set that to the side and talk about more just, hey, should you lose weight rapidly or slowly if you're an individual who's really interested in performance or otherwise an athlete? And I think there's a really good study to show the evidence on this and kind of demonstrate our position. So this is a group of elite Norwegian athletes from a variety of different sports. They were randomized to either slow or fast weight loss groups. Slow weight loss group followed a diet that resulted in losing about 0.7% of their body weight per week, whereas the fast weight loss group doubled it, 1.4% body weight per week. So that's almost 6% per month. Now, the study ran until all athletes reached the desired weight loss, which was a minimum of 4% decrease in their body weight. So it lasted between four to 12 weeks. During the study period, both groups also engaged in resistance training four times a week. At the end of the study period, body weight decreased by about 5.5% in both groups with the slow weight loss group losing a higher percentage of body fat compared to the fast group. Additionally, the slow weight loss groups on increase in their lean body mass by about 2%, which might be a measurement error, but it's still not a loss, which it seems positive. And their one rep max squat and bench press improvements were greater in the slow weight loss group compared to the fast group, about 12% for the squat in the slow group versus 9% for the fast group and 13.6% for the bench press group who was using a slow weight loss approach compared to 6.4% in the fast group. Overall, to me, this suggests like, look, if you're already relatively lean, and you're trying to get even leaner, probably slower is better if performance is a concern. But on the other side of the coin, for individuals with obesity, the data really kind of challenges that slow mantra. There's been a few recent meta-analyses that suggest for individuals with obesity, the rate of weight loss does not inherently dictate the amount of muscle loss provided that protein intake and resistance training are controlled. We know those are two big lovers that like preserve muscle mass. And in this particular population, it doesn't seem like going faster produces more lean body mass loss. And individuals with higher body fat can mobilize fatty acids more effectively and they have more of it to do so, then that can cover some of the energy deficits and preserve some of the muscle loss. This is a lot of the mechanistic stuff that keto advocates tend to cite, but yeah, it actually looks like this plays out for individuals with obesity who do lose weight a little faster. So you might potentially choose that if somebody was interested in doing so, knowing the potential risks and maybe having that top-end velocity ceiling of 10% per month in mind. The next thing we gotta move on to is metabolic adaptation. Austin, do you ever talk about metabolic adaptation? Not using those terms, I think the concepts are kind of baked into my conversation, mainly when I have these conversations all the time now with folks who have many times been struggling with their weight their entire life and feel like they're doing everything right. And yet despite their best efforts, they either struggle to make progress or they make initial progress and then things tend to rebound. And so it's kind of baked in as part of the explanation of how quote unquote, the body fights back after your initial weight loss efforts, both in terms of increasing appetite and that kind of question of metabolic adaptation. I put a lot more emphasis on the appetite aspects here, but that's something that's kind of baked into that conversation implicitly. Yeah, yeah, people talk about metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis or you know, you broke your metabolism, something like that. You know, they talk about it frequently, but the definition is kind of messy. The way I define it and the way that a lot of researchers that I redefine it is that metabolic adaptation is a greater than expected reduction in the amount of calories used in a day in response to weight loss. So for example, we know as your body mass goes down, you're going to burn less calories because you have less mass. Now that proportion of muscle, the fat loss, those two things require different amounts of energy per day. And so if you lose way more muscle than fat, you could go down more. This is all predictable. That's not metabolic adaptation. Metabolic adaptation is if there's additional reductions in how many calories that you need per day to keep the lights on in your body that we don't predict by just the tissue loss alone. So it's maybe like a metabolic efficiency increase. Data indicates that rapid weight loss increases the metabolic adaptation more than gradual weight loss. And there's actually a really good meta-analysis that came out, I think, in 2020. Yeah, there's a deeper suppression or greater suppression of resting metabolic rate. That's basically how many calories you use per day to keep the lights on in your body. In a comparative analysis, rapid weight loss groups who lost about seven and a half kilos reduced their resting metabolic rate by about 137 calories per day compared to only 87 calories per day in a gradual weight loss group who lost about the same weight. They also didn't have significant differences in lean mass that was preserved. So kind of speaking more to that, what we just said that looked for individuals with obesity, it doesn't look like they're gonna lose that much more muscle mass, if they lose it rapidly, but there might be some more metabolic adaptation. What's not clear to me is if this is actually meaningful. Meaning that, yeah, there's a difference in calories by 50, 60 calories, but most of these studies were short-term, eight weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks. Does this end up shaking out in the long run and does it even matter? For example, we look at even the biggest loser data, the people who lost the most weight and kept it off the longest had the most metabolic adaptation. And so to me, it's almost like individuals who are maybe genetically set up in a way to be obesity sensitive to not only the environment, but then also resistant to weight loss interventions overall, they may just have, this is the lot in life that they've kind of got. They were not so great hand genetically and it is what it is. And so I don't know that we should be micromanaging or selecting a particular dietary approach or intervention otherwise that focuses on metabolic adaptation. What do you think about that? Yeah, I fully agree with that. And I think that knowing, or I wouldn't even claim to know, but having a general sense of just the sheer number of variables that can impact these types of outcomes with this concept of metabolic adaptation just being one of them, it's like you're moving a fraction of a tiny chess piece on like this super complex multivariate board. Many variables we can't even appreciate, many variables we can't even modify. So like control the big things that you can and then the rest may or may not be entirely within your control. And this feels like one of those really tiny ones that is both probably less within our control than we would like it to be, but also less significant of a factor than it is often attributed to be. Yeah, I think it's something you can observe, but to the extent you can control it, I don't think so. I think it's more of like an adaptive response and like mostly managed or influenced by things outside of your control. And then I almost view it as like a signature of success. Like if you didn't get any metabolic adaptation, I don't know that you lost that much weight. Yeah, that's fair. So that's the metabolic adaptation arm of this. Moving on to adherence, there's this thought, look, you have to go low and slow because that's the only way you can keep it off longterm or adhere to this diet longterm or intervention longterm. Well, contrary to that belief that thinks that slow weight loss is more sustainable, the data suggests that rapid initial results can actually be beneficial for adherence. There's a number of studies on this showing that the amount of weight loss initially within the first few weeks sort of predicts not only achieving that minimally clinically important difference in weight change, so losing at least 5% of their starting body weight but also maintaining it. So can be predictive and whether this is like a positive feedback loop, like from a behavioral standpoint, like, oh, I was able to succeed. I'm gonna keep going. Or if it just identifies those who can be successful, like the people who don't lose a bunch of weight initially, they're like, well, you weren't gonna be successful anyway. So good luck. I can't speak to that. But is this something you see in your practice that people, they start on these medications or for example, just lifestyle alone, the initial sort of burst kind of predicts how they do long-term, you see that? Yeah, it's tough to say. I think that I emphasize with patients just how individual this whole process is, especially with the use of medicines that different people respond differently to different medicines and to different doses of medicines. If I had to guess that, yeah, if I start somebody on the lowest dose of terzepotide, for example, and they experience a dramatic impact on their appetite, they're super sensitive to it and lose a bunch of weight. In general, those people, I would predict to have better outcomes compared with somebody who doesn't feel much of anything. And I'm cranking it all the way up to the max dose of 15 milligrams. However, I have also seen plenty of people, and I've recently had some of these conversations, a patient who started on two and a half and they were like, not responding terribly well to it just yet, and they were starting to get apprehensive. They're like, should I be feeling more? Am I a hypo responder? And I'm like, cool it. Like we don't know that yet. There are plenty of people who actually don't really tend to respond a ton to the lower doses, and then we reach some sort of maybe a threshold effect in people. Once we get to seven and a half and something unlocks, and then they start making a ton of progress. So I hesitate based on my own kind of observational experience here to draw any sort of confident conclusion other than I've seen massive amounts of variability between people and how they respond, both physiologically and of course, psychologically as well to the process. Some people are like totally open and patient and no concerns. Others are much more impatient and want to see a big result on the low dose and get apprehensive that they're not getting there. Other people think that they really want to be on the maximum dose. And I'm like, well, if you're responding well to the lower dose, we don't actually have to increase it. And similar in terms of intensities of other interventions when it comes to regular dietary interventions, exercise interventions, just people are massively different. The sheer number of variables at play, both known and unknown, is just enormous here. And again, many of them are things that you did not choose or you were not in control of. And so that's kind of part of the challenge that we're trying to deal with with as good as these tools are that we have still compared with that level of complexity, relatively crude, I would say. Yeah. Yeah. And moving on to the final sort of thought between like, look, it's slower, better than faster. What about the potential for weight regain? The prevailing dogma is that slow and steady prevents weight regain. That's not really supported by data as well. Large scale studies, including this Purcell study we're going to talk about, as well as the National Weight Loss Control Registry, consistently find no significant difference in the amount of weight regained over the long term between slow and rapid weight loss. Again, it kind of doesn't really matter for individuals with obesity. So this Purcell study is interesting. To randomize trial, 200 participants, one group underwent a rapid weight loss program, 12 weeks, where they won a very low calorie diet, like 800 calories a day. The other one went on a gradual program, where they reduced their intake by 500 calories per day. The success rate, the rapid weight loss group, was far more likely to hit their target weight loss. About 81% of that group was successful compared to the slow weight loss group. Only 50% was successful. After three years, both groups regained roughly 70% of their loss weight. The rapidity of the initial loss did not make the regain worse, and maintenance was equally difficult for both groups, which is kind of how I view this. I'm like, I don't really care if you go fast or slow. My main concern is that you got there. Because I think maintaining that is going to be challenging either way. But first, we got to get there to even worry about maintenance. Does that make sense for you? Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this a lot, where it matters how you got there with certain things. But with other areas, it's like we really care about the outcome. And so to the extent we see a lot of people now, especially like kind of moralizing around, did you get there with diet and exercise? Or did you use the medicines? Or did you use the surgery? And it's like, we put a lot more emphasis on, like, let's get there. And then the details of how you got there and the implications of that and what does maintenance look like, we can kind of negotiate along the way. This is another super common conversation I'm having with folks who, even before we've even started, for example, the use of a GLP-1 agonist, they're like, well, what does it look like when it comes to maintenance? And it's like, well, happy to have that conversation, of course. And I lay it out for them. But it's like, we got to get there first before we can negotiate what does that look like for you. And we can't even predict. Are you going to be somebody who needs to continue using one of the medicines? Are you somebody who might be able to get away with lowering the dose or using it a little less frequently? Or are you one of the relatively few people, maybe in the order of 15-ish percent of people, who can actually come all the way down, potentially even off the medicine and sustain the majority of your weight loss? There's a lot of variation in how this looks in practice. But let's get there. Is the primary goal? Yeah, the analogy is like with blood pressure, right? We've talked about on this podcast before that apparently starting with multiple very low dose antihypertensive seem to work better than like maxing out one particular drug. And so imagine you have a patient and you're walking them through this and they're on board. They're like, look, doc, whatever you think is right. And so they're ready to start multiple agents at a low dose. But then immediately right after that, they're like, and when can I come off? And you're like, well, maybe let's get there first. And then we'll talk about it. Because yet, it directly impacts the risk. Now, this brings up a new paper that just got released. It's getting a lot of traffic. New study from Mass General, Havood. So you know it's going to get some airplay. The study is titled Weight Regain after Cessation of Medication for Weight Management, Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. This was just published. I'll link it in the show notes below. Basically, they did a meta-analysis, a study of studies on people who were on anti-abstetive medications and like, look, what happened after they got off? Now, 37 studies were included, about 10,000 patients. And they included all sorts of different anti-abstetive medications. So not just GLP-1s, but even some of the older agents. And invariably, there are differences in not only how much weight was lost, but what happens afterwards. Now, the mainstream media and maybe some, we'll call them, GLP-1 skeptics is not the right word. Maybe like anti-GLP-1 people, whatever. It seems like that anyway. There's plenty of those out there we know. They're like, look, after you come off the medication, you regain the weight. And you regain the weight faster than if you did lifestyle alone. And so in this particular study, they showed that the systematic review and meta-analysis, they show that, look, people come off these medications, they regain weight four times faster than those who are on lifestyle change alone, to diet and exercise. Failing to mention that the people who are on these medications lost way more weight on average. So yes, the absolute rate of weight regain tends to be faster because they lost more weight in the first place, but also ignores a few other kind of nuances here. So nuance number one, when we just restrict the analysis to GLP-1s on their own, and we look at like one-year data, people who come off and they're off for a year, actually seem to preserve more weight loss overall than people on lifestyle alone. Now, whether that gets back to null and zero at two years, three years forward, we don't know. But at least in the first year, it looks like some sort of durable effect of these agents. And then two, which is not really a nuance point, but maybe the total point, any intervention that causes an effect, you'll likely have to continue doing that intervention to preserve that effect, whether it's diet and exercise alone, whether it's medication, whether it's both, whatever. It's not like you can just do it and be like, OK, I don't have to do it anymore. It's done. Yeah, that's, I mean, honestly, most interventions that we have. Here's another interesting hot take that I will have. I have heard rumblings that there are some groups, and I've not confirmed this for myself yet, that looking into, for example, some of the gene-based therapies around GLP-1 signaling. For example, we have existing therapies for this in the context of sickle cell disease, for example. There are some that are being studied for lipid management as well, essentially like a one-time dose of this gene editing treatment that will then lead to a permanent, durable lowering of your blood lipid levels or that will edit your sickling hemoglobin genes to essentially cure that condition. So I'm curious to see, for all of these folks who are vehemently against the use of GLP1s, because when you tend to stop therapy, the effects of the therapy do not persist, I have to assume that they will be vigorously in favor of one-time treatment options for this kind of thing. Yeah, they're not going to be either. And I don't know that I am either, because I'm just open to seeing what are the potential benefits, what are the potential downsides, and I will evaluate that evidence on its own when it comes to pass. But it's kind of disingenuous, and it's going to be very predictable how that ends up playing out, I think, on their part. Yeah, if you agree that the root cause of obesity is a genetic mismatch with the modern environment, and then if you secondarily agree that it's going to take some time to change the environment to a satisfactory level that really reverses course here, it's going to take some years, so then you're like, well, I guess our actual target is genetics. And then we somehow identify this genetic target, and we can create a treatment that directly does that one-time dose, gene editing, CRISPR, whatever, and it does actually change their genes. And now they are well matched for the current environment. And that's the treatment for obesity. You're cool with that. And further, what does that Venn diagram look like between the COVID vaccine modifies your DNA versus a root cause treatment of obesity modifies your DNA? Like, how does that square? With the technology that we have, I mean, identifying to the way that you've described folks as being more obesity sensitive or obesity resistant in the context of the modern environment, what are the variables that are most predictive of a quote unquote, obesity resistant phenotype? What do the genetics look like of somebody who is quote unquote, naturally lean? And then is there a gene therapy that you want to try to institute to folks who struggle to make them more obesity resistant? I'm not even advocating for this, because it's just like a whole...  minefield of a complex topic in terms of editing people's genetics and at what point in life do you do that and what are the implications and things like that, but that's kind of the phenomenon that you're getting at here. Yeah, I don't know. I think it'd be cool, like, great if possible, that would be an interesting option for folks, but yeah, TBD, I just find the argument that you shouldn't use GLP-1s because when you come off them, you're going to regain the weight. That's like saying you shouldn't exercise because when you stop doing it, you're going to lose the muscle mass or whatever. It's like, yeah, maybe there's a more durable effect of exercise longer term than GLP-1s, sure, but for a dietary pattern, it's like saying you can only eat healthy for the next year to lose the weight and then after that you have to stop because we don't want you to have to keep doing it. It'd be silly to have to keep persistently doing something despite all the other. Yeah, it's nonsense. All right, Austin, any closing thoughts on losing weight rapidly versus slowly for metabolic health, long-term health trajectory, and maybe how you contrast that with active individuals, athletes who are looking to be a little leaner but not necessarily for a health purpose? Yeah, I think it's a good topic. I think you did a good job kind of surveying the evidence and this whole episode, including starting from the very beginning with the mystery case, serves to lay out and describe a fair amount of the potential pros and the potential cons of doing this, just like any intervention has potential benefits of potential downsides. And so then our job, whether as people considering these paths before us or as clinicians guiding folks through it, is helping them weigh those potential benefits and downsides on an individual basis. So somebody who is at extremely high risk of cardiometabolic complications, yeah, I might favor a little bit more rapid if I can, notwithstanding this maybe risk of a little peroneal neuropathy that is likely to be either not noticed or transient or something like that. But for somebody who values high-level performance, then the calculus changes a little bit there. And so these decisions should be made individually. And if you have a clinician that you're working with, then you have that level of supervision to have these kind of conversations of what does this look like. And of course, this is all underscored by our unsurprising recommendation that anytime you're losing weight, you ought to be strength training to do your best to maintain the lean body mass and the muscle mass along the way. Great. Yeah, just some more clinical logic that you're spouting here. If the benefits outweigh the risks would proceed, if that flips, then maybe slow down a little bit. Yeah, with conditions that you mentioned, there's some strong push towards let's take care of this obesity thing as quickly as possible to reduce your risk, whether it's heart disease, particularly liver disease, for example. Whereas if it's more of like, eh, this isn't really for help, really concerned with performance well, then the risks of rapid weight loss seem to outweigh the benefits, which is interesting because on our forum, on our AMAs or whatever, we frequently get questions about, should I follow a protein sparing modified fast? Should I do this other rapid weight loss protocol? And I'm like, look, you're not an individual with obesity to a level that is compromising your health. And you are apparently concerned with performance. How do I know that? Because you're on the Barbell Medicine Forum. Otherwise, how did you make it here? So it seems like that's probably not the move for lean mass preservation, for strength development. And overall, like while the adherence may not be different long term, I do have concerns about rebound, particularly that collateral fattening situation afterwards. Yeah, that's why there are criteria for patient selection for various interventions. Now these are not hard rules written in stone, no matter what. Like I've certainly prescribed and done things kind of quote unquote off label from time to time. But why, for example, you see criteria for GLP ones in general, say BMI over 30, BMI over 27 with a comorbidity as just like, here it's just on like general patient screening guidelines. Now have I initiated one of these medicines in a patient who did not meet these criteria? For sure I have. But there were specific reasons, justifications and based on the conversation and the clinical assessment came to the conclusion that, hey, the potential benefits of this medicine outweigh the potential downsides. For example, one recent use had to do with a patient who had a history of like pretty significant like binge eating disorder. And despite their best efforts, this was a constant daily struggle that they were dealing with yet through daily heroic efforts, they were actually managing to maintain a BMI below 27. And so they would, unfortunately, insurance is like, nah, your BMI looks great. This person's every day is like an absolute struggle to deal with, you know, that concept of like food noise and crate and compulsions and things like that. Yeah, seems to me like you stand to potentially benefit from this. It's likely to remain a low dose to try to control that kind of give you a sense of control. I'm not going to crank this up to max dose and aim for massive weight loss, but that's not the aim of this intervention in your situation. Right? Similar with metabolic bariatric surgery, there are criteria for the type of person who undergoes it. We would not generally be doing metabolic bariatric surgery on somebody who's BMI is 25 or something like that. You don't see scenarios where somebody gets that surgery and then it's like, oh, they're losing way too much weight. We end up needing to put them on, you know, IV nutrition afterwards to keep their weight up or something like that. It's like, if that's the case, I had questions maybe about the initial patient selection criteria, maybe about the way that the surgery was performed, the way it was set up led to, you know, overdramatic weight loss, maybe they need a surgical revision, things like that, like back that off, etc. So you need skilled clinicians doing this kind of patient selection and then guiding through that process of potential benefits, potential downsides. Are we meeting traditional criteria? Are we going off label? Are you just like not a great candidate for this and why and what are our alternatives instead? Yeah, perhaps the DIY use and pill mill situation would be not ideal in the risks. Yeah, totally. All right. Well, that is a wrap on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on this mystery case. If you liked this episode or other episodes, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. For everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. If you are a podcast host, listen up this one's for you. My name is Ali Jackson. I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle. And I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform with Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in AdSales. It's not just typical AdSales either. It's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple. You just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You vet every opportunity and their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast on social media to really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle. I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to RedCircle.com to get your free trial. That's RedCircle.com for a free trial.