 All right, many people, all right, many people discuss exercise as if it's a single generic pill, just be more active, they say, but the reality is that exercise is a complex prescription with highly specific ingredients. For example, how much and what type of exercise is best for longevity? And how much does it matter that the person responds to the exercise by getting fitter? If we can identify specific benchmarks, exactly how much you need to lift or how fast you need to move, we can transition from vague advice to actionable targets that are going to be fitter. Effectively lower your risk of effectively lower your risk of dying early. Now, Austin, we've got so much evidence on medications when it comes to dosing, monitoring, and expected benefits. We know that if we lower blood pressure by five millimeters of mercury, we reduce the risk of major cardiac events like heart attacks by about 10%. Why do you think we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise? I will gently push back and say I don't know that it is the case that we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise. There is a pretty abundant base of literature around kind of correlational data of dose response and things like that between exercise volume and some data sets, exercise intensity and other data sets, some of which we've actually talked about recently on the podcast, where these things on a sufficiently broad population level, oftentimes using like self-reported data for all the problems that come with that. You know, and it's unsurprising that those who do much more and who are able to do more intense generally have better outcomes. How much of that is causal from them doing more and doing it more intensely leading to better outcomes? How much of it is healthier people can also do those things? Kind of like the data around depression. There's a lot of people who bandy about these papers saying that, you know, exercise clearly cures depression. It's like, well, how much of it is that extremely depressed people have a hard time doing exercise? There's probably some blend. I would be totally unsurprised to learn that there's some element of causation there, but also some element of kind of correlational, almost accidental association or reverse causation as well. So I think we have some data on this relating to this dose response phenomenon between volume and intensity and frequency and certain health metrics. I think we would both prefer that it be a little bit more granular in nature and maybe even correlated, not just between the dose of exercise and the outcome, but maybe like what are the specific mediating factors between that dosage of exercise and that outcome? What is the thing that mediates it? Does it necessitate a certain degree of adaptation? In which case, like what is the minimum adaptive unit that you need? Like how much of an increase in VO2 max will cause a given health benefit? Because even then we have correlational data between VO2 max and health outcomes, right? But how much of that is causal or how much of it is just like simultaneous? You're adapting in one area and getting health benefits in another. That kind of mediating analysis would be super interesting for like the exercise physiology, like nerds and medical clinicians here. A lot of people don't need that level of granularity, but that would be a kind of an additional level that would be interesting to have. Yeah. I just think of like a tiered approach, like you'd want more physicians, more healthcare providers to just more people, generally speaking, not only to be recommending exercise, but doing the correct behavior change counseling to manifest that, right? So that's like on the floor, got to do that. Thing two would be, okay, ensuring that people are being adherent and doing those things, right? So now, yeah, that's the second part. Third part is, are they actually getting fitter, right? If we, think or find that actual improvements in fitness as measured by VO2 max, various strength metrics or whatever, are need to happen in order to improve somebody's health, then we should be monitoring them and have like certain benchmarks. That assumes that's true. So let's dive in here. We know that going from zero exercise to some exercise is probably the most useful transition point, the largest bang for the buck, if you will. So you go from no exercise to doing, you know, half the current guidelines, you're going to get the majority of your health related benefits from that transition compared to going from, all right, I'm doing half the current guidelines amount of exercise to double. Like it's just, yeah, going from zero to something is, it tends to be a bigger bang for your buck. Uh, and if you hit the physical activity guidelines, um, that's light years better. Your resistance training twice a week, you're doing 20 to 30 minutes of, uh, aerobic training, um, on most days. Um, and the current physical activity guidelines do kind of list out like how often you should do it, the general intensity that it should be done at and, you know, things, things of that nature, but it's incomplete. It's incomplete to me because it has no monitoring and recommendations for dosing adjustments to achieve specific benchmarks. Now, maybe this doesn't matter. You know, if you've ever wondered why so many mediocre personal trainers stay in business, it's because exercise is remarkably hard to get wrong enough that it doesn't work. Unlike a surgical procedure or like a narrow therapeutic index drug where a 10% dosing error is a catastrophe, exercise has a massive safety margin and a physiological buffer that is incredibly forgiving. You can do a lot of stuff wrong and still get benefits. Um, I think about this often when I'm in the gym still, I think we need to move towards a more precise exercise prescription, one that mandates monitoring the specific clinical performance benchmarks that drive health and longevity. Now, Austin, to me, the current general guidelines seem analogous to prescribing a new medication at a fixed dose for every single patient and then never monitoring their physiological response. In what other area of medicine would we ever find that acceptable? Yeah, it doesn't really tend to happen very much. There's lots of areas in medicine where there are broad based clinical guidelines of like, here is where you start, right? That might come to, you know, menopausal hormone therapy, or here's how you would initiate, you know, thyroid replacement, uh, you know, hormone replacement, or here's how you would initiate, here's how you would treat somebody's blood lipids or something like that. But most of the time it is based on, Hey, here's the reasonable place to start and then monitoring and adjusting from there to achieve the outcome you want. And that's the aspect of this that you're describing that's missing is we have the general guidelines on like where to start, but if somebody is not meaningfully responding to that, whatever starting dose you end up prescribing for them, uh, it does require some kind of iterative adjustment, trial and error, you know, interrogating, what are they doing? Are they actually meeting the recommendations? What are the barriers and what dosage adjustments need to be made and how to get the outcomes that we're actually looking for rather than assuming that, Oh, if I told them to do the guidelines, quote unquote, uh, whatever that, that means. And even if they are meeting those guidelines, are they getting everything that we're looking for out of their activity? They might be somebody who's a little bit more physiologically resistant, um, to that intervention, or they may be somebody who's even physiologically very sensitive to it in various ways for better or for worse. Um, and so that might require some, some individualization. A lot of this is a bit more theoretical than it is like strongly evidence-based that ultra individualized exercise programming will lead to better kind of like risk of death, for example, that would need to be proven. Uh, but, um, it is an intuitive concept that is broadly applied in many other areas of medicine. And so it's reasonable, I think at this point to, um, in a sense, extrapolate it here and say like, we should actually try to get people not just doing these things, but like objectively benefiting in some way from them. Yeah. Yeah. So let's get into this longevity and training, uh, discussion. We think generally about, uh, the effects of meeting the current physical activity guidelines on things like mortality. So premature death. So for conditioning alone, meeting the aerobic guidelines by themselves, 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity, um, conditioning per week, it's associated with about a 30% reduction in all cause mortality for resistance training alone. Adding those two days of muscle strengthening exercises provides an independent benefit of 10 to 17% reduction in premature mortality. And when you do both, uh, but you're looking at a more like a 40% reduction in risk. This is kind of though, where the one size fits all prescription fails. And when we stop looking at, uh, just the activity and start looking at the actual physiological response, maybe like a key performance indicator or KPI for exercise, uh, I think that we can get a little more nuanced here. So the two big ones you're going to look at are VO two max and strength. And now it's long been said, I'm sure that there are clips of many different influencers available for us to clip here and put them in. VO two max is the strongest predictor of survival. People have been saying that people have been saying that. And look, there's data here. The mansager study in 2018, 122,000 subjects found that elite cardiorespiratory fitness, the top 2.3% for VO two backs correlated with an 80% reduction in mortality risk compared to the lowest VO two max. And there is no ceiling for these benefits. That's important. It seems like as you continue to go up and up and up in cardiorespiratory fitness, the risk, uh, particularly from cardiovascular disease seems to go down. So generally speaking, you could say more cardio equals more better. And I'd be fine with that. But historically strength has been like a secondary to that. And I think even on some of our older podcasts, we've said, look, you know, if you're lifting, if you're listening to this podcast, if you're Barbell Medicine podcast listener, you're probably doing enough for strength, but that's kind of gotten some new, some new legs that maybe strength is even more important than even us. The, maybe the biggest, uh, promoters of strength training in the industry, especially for clinical outcomes, maybe it's getting some, some new, some new legs here. So this 2025 Clinimex data, it's about 4,000 people that they looked at. They showed a massive discrepancy between muscular power and muscular strength where muscular power, relative muscular power. So relative to somebody's body weight provided it nearly 20 times higher risk discrimination than strength when they analyze the data. Now, why? Well, it's one, the way they tested these things, maximal muscle power was measured basically like an upright row. They pulled on a weight stack with a handle on it as fast as possible while they measured strength with the hand grip test. And you're like, okay, which one would like tie in multiple systems of the body in a way that is very predictive of like badness happening? It's not going to be just you squeezing on something real hard. It's going to be you doing some sort of dynamic task that coordinates your body to move quickly and powerfully together. Now, that being said, we talked about that on our last podcast about hand grip strength. It does seem like low muscular power imparts a very high risk of mortality from this study. They found that individuals with the lowest power production had a hazard ratio of up to 6.9, which if you're not familiar with hazard ratios, I'll give it to you in percentages. That's a 590% increased risk of death compared to those who are in the highest power group. Austin, do you think that power really is more predictive than strength or it's just the way that it's being tested in a research study like this? Probably some element to both. It does strike me that power is probably a really good integrator to your point, similar to the way that VO2 max might be a good integrator of like the full cardiorespiratory kind of pathway from the oxygen molecule coming into your lungs from the environment to getting delivered to the tissue and metabolize it integrates things at many levels there. And then similarly, power integrates the entire kind of like neuromusculoskeletal apparatus in a sense, a little bit better than strength. And it may even be a little bit more of a leading indicator of disease and decline because it does tend to decay more than strength does. The magnitude of effect that we're observing here may be a little bit more impacted by that method measurement because of how poor hand grip strength is. But I think that the relationship is very plausible to me. I buy that. And so, you know, if you tell me, for example, somebody is able to, you know, pick your elite VO2 max performance metric of choice and you tell me that somebody has it, I'm like, okay, I feel really good in general about their kind of cardiorespiratory fitness level, whether it's by purely VO2 max or performance metric. Similarly, if you said that their power, whether given to me in terms of, you know, power units, or you told me that this person can power snatch, you know, 315 pounds, I'm like, yeah, I think they're good. I don't really need to know too much else about them. Right. Yeah, no, that's a good point. Yeah. You feel you'd feel, uh, would you feel similarly as confident, you know, 300 pound power snatch is crazy. Right. Sure. Like, Hey, they got a four times body weight leg press. Yeah. I think the power snatch tells me more. Now there are still other metrics that I would need to know about them, for example, because it's like, Hey, what's their waist measurement though? What's their resting blood pressure? Right. But insofar as we're in this realm of like muscular performance, for example, yeah, the snatch tells me more than the, than the leg press, I think. Yeah. Leg press more than the hand grips grip strength, but maybe the power snatch even more. Yeah. Now here's where things get interesting. You look at these two massive data sets side by side, the numbers are telling review to max, a jump from the bottom of the pack to the elite top 2% resulted in an 80% reduction in the risk of premature death. But if we put that in reverse, if you have elite cardio and you lose it, this same data set would suggest that your risk of death doesn't just double, it increases by over 400%. Now, if we compare that to the Clinimex findings on muscle power, they found that individuals with the lowest power category had a 590% increased risk of death compared to the high power group. If we just look at these two data sets, this means that while we have historically called VO2 max, the ultimate predictor, perhaps muscle power may actually provide a higher risk thoughts. That's an interesting argument. I have no other thoughts beyond that at this time. Yeah. Same, same. Now, okay. So how about some targets here? So let's start off with elite targets for conditioning. And this is going to vary by age, by sex. There's also some thought that like ethnicity also matters and things of that nature. But just generally speaking, if you're a man age 30 to 45, we want your VO2 max greater than 56 mils per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max test. Or as like a field test, if you went for a one and a half mile run, you could do it faster than nine minutes and 30 seconds. For a woman in this age demo, it's 48 milliliters per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max and a one and a half mile run faster than 11 minutes. And then as we age, these things change. So 45 to 75, if you're a man, a VO2 max of 48 and a one and a half mile run of less at less than 11 minutes for that. And for women in that age demographic, it's a VO2 max greater than 38 and a one and a half mile run less than 13 and a half minutes. So those are some ways to maybe to assess your VO2 max and see how you stack up compared to the elite in at least that data set we were referencing. Now, elite targets for strength and power are not quite as clean. There's not a lot of real data here, especially using dynamic strength, like a squat, a bench press, or even like a leg press. In fact, there's really only one data set and it's only in dudes from the Cooper Institute. Basically, they looked at leg press one rep max and chest press one rep max, and then kind of saw how their, what risk of mortality did they have over the next period of time. It looked like for dudes, if they had a leg press of a one rep max of greater than twice their body weight and about 1.6 to two times their body weight for women, we're extrapolating that data, obviously, that that seemed to be put them in the elite sort of strength category. For chest press, it was one and a half times body weight for men and one times body weight for women. Again, noting that this is only data in men and is one study. It's a lot of caveats here. And that's probably best suited for individuals below the age of 50. Whereas when we get older, things are going to change again, just like they did with the VO2 max. And so again, made up numbers, I think having a leg press one rep max of like 1.5 times body weight for men or higher or 1.2 times body weight or higher for women, it's a reasonable target. And then for the chest press, it'd be body weight. So one times body weight for men and maybe 0.6 times body weight for women. You could also use relative hand grip strength. And to the extent there's data on strength and like longevity, there's way more data here than there is on like dynamic strength tests. So for example, we know that for every five kilogram increase in absolute grip strength, that's associated with about a 10 to 15% reduction in all cause mortality risk. For most adults, a 10% gain in hand grip strength translates to about three to five kilos improvement in hand grip strength, which places folks into a lower risk category. The biggest improvements, however, we see are people going from low hand grip strength to normal hand grip strength. There's some improvement from normal to even more trained. Now this is speculative because as we mentioned in our hand grip strength test, that relative hand grip strength is probably a better marker, mainly because it corrects for the obesity paradox. We know that the single biggest predictor of somebody's hand grip strength is how much lean body mass they're carrying. And individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass. So if we compare this to somebody's body weight, so the kilos they're able to produce, you know, force wise on a hand grip strength test to their kilos of body weight, we can come up with a ratio. So the average in the population right now is about 0.55 to 0.6 for men and 0.40 to 0.45 for women. And so if we're thinking about elite targets, right, what's that top sort of cohort? Let's add 10%. Again, admittedly speculative, but yeah, I'm showing my work. You have to start somewhere. I get it. So for men, this would be a target range of 0.61 to 0.66 for relative hand grip strength. And for women, a target range of 0.44 to 0.50. Again, they are speculative, but I think if someone, you know, gun to my head, Hey, what are some strength metrics I should be monitoring or targeting to make sure that somebody's getting the most out of their exercise program? Better than nothing. I think, although I'd like to see that validated because maybe it isn't better than nothing. Maybe exercise just works so damn well that we don't need these targets. It would be nice if that were the case, but I do not think that it is quite that special. So I agree that giving some general, even if speculative guidance here is better than nothing, but yeah, worthy of further study. Yeah. So that's strength, which, you know, most people measure by low velocity force production, one rep max, stuff like that, or in this case of a hand grip strength test, an isometric test. But what about power? There are tests of like grip strength power, how quickly you can, you close the thing and with what force, but for maybe a more practical example would be like a vertical jump. Um, and there's some data out there showing that a vertical jump, um, of a greater than 10 inches in men, um, and greater than eight inches in women would put them into like an elite power category based on normative data we have of people in their fifties and sixties. I'm thinking about if I had a 60 something year old who's relatively untrained and they came in the gym, am I testing their, their vertical jump? Maybe. It depends on your eyeball test when they walk in, right? How do they walk in? What is their, you're already paying attention to their gate speed and how they move and things like that to make that kind of a decision. There are some who might surprise you and then others where it's like, you can tell just by the way they move that, yeah, this is not, uh, not wise. Yeah. Yeah. So those are some targets for like strength, cardiovascular fitness and power. And I think another thing we need to add here is progress, right? So we have some of these KPIs, but we also need to make sure the person's getting stronger, getting fitter because getting stronger works better. We've got two recent systematic reviews that found a dose response relationship between strength gain and improvements in both resting blood pressure and hemoglobin A1c. So how your blood sugar has been doing for the past few months in both reviews, the subjects that gained the most strength, reduce their blood pressure and their hemoglobin A1c by greater amounts compared to those who didn't improve as much in their strength or who did so to a smaller degree. We think that there are overlapping mechanisms here contributing both to strength and health improvements, mostly mediated by the mTOR pathway and myokines. These are little hormones that your muscles produce when you use them, um, which seems to interfere with, uh, or otherwise reduce inflammatory pathways. This is an area of active research at the moment. Similarly, we also know that improving VO2 max works better, uh, from exercise compared to an exercise plan where you don't actually gain cardiorespiratory fitness. Similar to the data on strength, large scale studies such as the heritage family study and subsequent analyses demonstrate a clear relationship between the size or magnitude of the cardiorespiratory adaptation and health outcomes. Individuals who exhibited the largest increases in VO2 max experienced the most significant improvements in their metabolic health markers. So things like insulin sensitivity, lipid profiles, vascular function, whereas non-responders, those who performed the prescribed exercise, but saw little to no change in their cardiorespiratory fitness, well, they showed significantly reduced improvements in these clinical markers. And for this, we think that the health benefits are intrinsically tied to the actual physiological adaptation rather than just the time spent exercising probably mediated through AMP kinase because that's the major sort of pathway involved in cardiorespiratory fitness. Yeah. So if we had to come up with some barbell medicine, physical activity guidelines for longevity, I think we'd move past the resistance train twice a week and the due conditioning for 150 minutes at minimum for a week. Uh, to me, that's like the floor, not, not the ceiling. And for longevity, I think that people need to exercise more, probably more than they want to, or even can't in the modern environment. So for aerobic training, I think my target would be moving away from a 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, but more towards 300 to 600 minutes. Now that is admittedly a lot, admittedly it is, but, and at this volume, uh, I think training intensity and how you distribute that matters. Um, so the majority of this work should be done in the 60 to 80% range for max heart rate where you can speak comfortably, but not seeing a smaller portion, maybe up to a quarter of the total amount of conditioning that you're doing should be done at higher intensities where speaking at all is difficult. Um, and you should monitor performance to make sure that you're making progress related to your cardiorespiratory fitness, such as objectively testing your VO2 max or testing your one and a half mile run. And for resistance training, two to three days a week of lifting weights is the minimum that usually represents about two hours per week. Uh, for, for most folks who are not listeners to the parbo medicine podcast, but for longevity, many individuals will need more training, perhaps another hour or two. And this can be split up into as many sessions as the individual prefers. Uh, the weights that are being moved should be challenging, but not maximal for most exercise. So something like two to four repetitions left in reserve, they should be hard, not maximal. And the exercises selected should target all of the major muscle groups of the body with user preference being the primary factor when it comes to specific exercise selection. Importantly, strength progress should be monitored to ensure the maximum return on investment when it comes to time spent exercising. And we detailed some of those. Now, Austin, to me, these seem like a sort of like treat to target strategy when it comes to exercise. Uh, what do you think about that? Yeah, I like the idea. It's something that, you know, it reminds me of, uh, phrases that we used around blood lipids back in the day, which went away for a while and then kind of has come back to some extent in certain circles. And same with a kind of blood pressure of thinking about adjusting treatments to a particular target that is most clearly causally and or in associated with a lower risk of, of complications. So I think it's a reasonable way to go about this as with the drug, uh, therapies and those sorts of things related to blood cholesterol, blood pressure, et cetera, where we had stronger outcome data, it would be nice to have the same here. But, um, I, I like the idea of setting some kind of a target and tinkering and iteratively modifying and adjusting to try to get where you're trying to go. Yeah. So if you're doing the work, but your benchmarks are not moving, you know, we don't want to label you, but it seems like you may be non-responsive to that specific dose and formulation of exercise. And in that case, we don't want to keep doing the same thing. We should adjust the prescription just like you would with medications. SubxWhich Thank you.