 All right, naringin, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton, Hamilton Hamilton, Hamilton Hamilton, Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton to requesting a prescription purely for longevity benefit? Yeah, so I would, yeah, many, many, many hundreds, probably even getting into the well over a thousand plus folks on these medicines that I've accrued at this point. And the number of people who are looking at this purely through a longevity lens is pretty small. I will say non-zero, a couple, and those really are relating to one of a small handful of conditions that they're most worried about. But a lot of times it is relating to hypothetical neuroprotective benefits, because I think that, you know, the management and risk reduction for cardiovascular disease at this point is pretty well established, how we go about that, ensuring good metabolic health and blood pressure, lipid control, insulin sensitivity, physical activity, all those kinds of things. And fortunately, many of those same things have benefits across numerous other organ systems to include the brain. But that neurodegenerative disease, you know, is a tough nut to crack in terms of our ability to prevent and mitigate morbidity and certainly premature death as a result of its complications. So that's actually been an area where I've had a handful of patients that I can think of off the top of my head inquire about. It's not one where I have a large body of evidence that I can stand on and say, yes, this, these drugs, or even like micro dosing, which is another common question around them, that that will confer that degree of benefit. But it's an interesting conversation to have. Many of these folks, as you can imagine, tend towards that like health maximizer, optimizer, get tons of data, things like that end of the spectrum. Yeah, that makes sense. Now, I think, you know, if we're steel manning the other side of that argument, we're going to set maybe the risks of muscle loss aside. I feel like we have pounded that into the ground. We beat that horse. We're going to talk about it again, to be clear. Yeah, I think we should with some new listeners here as an overblown thing, but go on. We'll set that aside for now. But I think, you know, maybe many people in the general public think of drugs like Wegovy and ZepBound and, you know, whatever they're going to call retatratide. Thinking about these drugs, they're just obesity medications. And so the extent that we're seeing these knock-on benefits on whether it's cardiovascular disease, kidney health, perhaps even cognitive benefit, whatever, longevity, just more generally speaking, well, it's just due to managing the weight. That's the, you know, and then there's this high collateral cost of sarcopenia. It's the muscle loss. It all comes down to muscle loss. And the first thing I should say is none of these studies so far are directly looking at muscle tissue. They're looking at lean mass and fat mass. So effectively, anything that is not fat is considered lean mass. So that's water, bone, any sort of proteinaceous protein based thing in your body, which certainly includes, but is not limited to just skeletal muscle. And so when we look at what would be maybe like a predicted loss or predicted composition of weight loss, you look at dietary interventions alone. So just calorie restriction. And on average for every pound or unit of weight that people lose, about 75% of it will be fat mass and 25% will be not fat mass. Some of that is muscle, but certainly not all of it is actual skeletal muscle tissue. That would be our sort of like line in the sand, like do GLP ones do way worse than that, for example. And it doesn't really appear. So on average, yes, the step one trial initially, that was the sort of like, wow, they're losing 40% lean mass for unit weight loss, but no study since that has shown that that proportion. So it does seem to be a little outlier. Again, you look at the lifestyle only group there and their lean mass losses in that step one trial. And you're like, okay, it seemed maybe like a measurement issue or a population issue or something else. But again, if this signal was reliable and robust, you'd see it every single time. And we just don't. That's that's thing one thing to what you would expect is, okay, if these people lose weight, right, and they tend to lose more weight with these anti-abesity medications. And so then therefore, they're losing way more muscle, that would be your prediction, then you would predict at the end of the study, if they were to check strength, functional status, anything like that, those would also be decreased, they would have a worse hand grip strength, they'd have a worse sit to stand, they would have worse walking speed. And this was actually tested in the semiline study. And in fact, despite no exercise, or at least programmed exercise during the year long study, it got better. The people who would have been diagnosed with sarcopenia, there was reduced, their muscle quality improved. And so while their muscle cross sectional area may have gone down, we think maybe they lost some intramuscular fat, for example, other sort of things that don't really contribute to the muscle actually functioning, or maybe in fact corrected by administration of these, these medicines. And then the third part of this is like, your this concern around too much muscle loss comes down to the fact that people will bypass some sort of threshold, where they were previously functional, now they've lost enough muscle mass, their function has been decreased. They're starting from a higher point. Anyway, they have more muscle as is you compare an individual with obesity to a lean counterpart, you know, similar activity levels, notwithstanding, they have way more muscle. It's just, it's not, it's not really compared, you can't really compare them. Does the muscle work as well? Generally not, but they just have more of it. And so they're at such, they're so far removed for being at risk for sarcopenia, due to carrying too little muscle mass. And sarcopenia, again, it's not just the loss of muscle mass. It's the loss of muscle function. It doesn't really register to me. It's like a real risk, like an individual with obesity who's appropriately prescribed this medication and monitored. It just doesn't seem like a real risk. I think it's overblown. A hundred percent agree. Yes, I'm glad to agree. I also think that part of the conversation has been muddied by the fact that nobody actually, a lot of the people making these arguments don't really understand the differences in terms of the terminology used around body composition analysis. So they'll hear a lean body mass or fat free mass or, you know, muscle mass. These are all different things. They are not the same thing. There is the water element. There is non muscle tissue that is also present in muscle, what is being measured and assumed to be muscle mass. That is the fat that's in there that can interfere with muscle quality. And so conflating all these terms into one thing and then saying, oh, people are hemorrhaging 40% of their muscle mass and then turning, you know, conflating that with the idea that these people are developing sarcopenia left and right and that they're dying prematurely as a result. It's like, these are, these are like logical triple jumps that you're making from one to the other compared with what we actually observe in reality. Yeah. The last part, and this is, uh, this is more of just another annoyance that happens when you spend too much time on the internet, particularly on social media, where you see talking head clips like this, you may be watching people will claim, well, look, obesity is really just a risk of under muscle. You're just under muscled. And so the risk of losing that muscle, it far outweighs the benefits of losing fat mass. And that is completely opposite to what all of the evidence shows us. Again, not only do individuals with obesity tend to carry more muscle than their lean counterparts, but the muscle is not as protective as the fat is risky. Yes. We do prefer if you had, if you were an individual with obesity, we would prefer that you also are carrying a lot of muscle mass, but it's most important for you to not necessarily gain more muscle, but actually to lose the fat. Um, if you were open to, to weight management at that time. Yes. Agree. I think that that, uh, that is accurate and, um, should be foot stomped a bit more, especially when we've again, find ourselves in these arguments with people. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe the, the, just to tie it all together, like why do people care? They're like, well, look, I would never take these drugs personally. And I would never recommend them to other folks, uh, either because you should just do it through diet and exercise one. It's better. You know, we don't have this risk of muscle loss to, uh, you know, there's no shortcuts in life and you get these better habits, all these sorts of things. How does that strike you? I'm looking at your face right now and it's not big because I think that now, um, the threads algorithm just feeds me all of the GLP one rage bait that is out there. And that is what all of the things that you just said are most of the things that I see. And I have to disregard rather than engage with, because it's, it's just deeply frustrating to, to hear and to listen to. So the first part of somebody said, I would never take one of those things. It's like, fine. Nobody's, you know, you don't have to do it. Like nobody's forcing you to take these things. It's like perfectly okay to not, if you don't want to, as far as whether or not you would recommend it to somebody else, I may take some quibbles with that, depending on like, what is your level of authority? What sort of patients are you advising? What are they coming to you for? Because are you a doctor? Whether you are advising or should be advising on anything is in question here. Um, and because if you are not going to advise their use, I have questions about your ability to interpret data here, right? So if for example, and this is a, a post that I have been like kind of drafting and editing in my mind for a long time that has yet to, to really bear fruit just yet. But let's say that these medicines were much more harmful than beneficial. Let's say that they dissolved all of your muscle mass and did not confer any benefits, uh, compared with, uh, you know, quote unquote, natural, uh, weight loss by regular diet and exercise, things like that. If it had this like net harm effect, we have ample research in randomized trials at this point that should show us those effects. We should see from the multiple different lines of evidence across the numerous different agents, right? That, uh, these things are causing harm, that more people are getting hospitalized, more people are falling fractures, premature death, all sorts of things. And the drugs get pulled from the market. There is not even a signal for that. Now that is not to say that these medicines are completely have no potential harm, that they can be used carelessly, that they don't require monitoring. All of those things are in fact, the case that there are potential downsides that should be weighed against potential benefits for the individual patient. There are dosage adjustments that need to be accounted for. There are, uh, monitoring that should be in place. And that is why these things require, uh, you know, care by a physician who knows what they're doing with these, with these, uh, medications. But those folks are not honest brokers of information or accurate interpreters of the evidence around it. They hear something about muscle and because maybe their whole world is fitness and muscle, then any effect on muscle that might not be the most favorable thing on earth is catastrophic. Well, fortunately that's not the case. This is quantifiable. We see improvements in muscle quality. We see improvements in functional status again with, you know, typical use of these medicines for appropriately selected patients. It is possible to push people's weight loss way too far, but I almost never see that happening. Of course, I work in a practice where we are monitoring and paying attention to people and reassessing them when it comes time for refills and dose adjustments and things like that. But if you take somebody whose BMI is, uh, I don't know, 20 and you put them on a GLP-1 agonist and don't monitor them and their, their, uh, BMI ends up 16. Yeah. You probably didn't select your patient very well, or there was not enough monitoring or something like that. But the idea that we're taking patients with clinical obesity and pushing them into sarcopenia like left and right is not happening. I just need to be very clear, uh, about that in practice. And so if the argument is that the net harms are exceeding the net benefits or, you know, uh, that, that that's how this math shakes out, the evidence should show it. Otherwise you are alleging that there is a widespread multi-center, multi-randomized trial, multi-researcher conspiracy happening to where they are all colluding to generate ample amounts of favorable outcome data across numerous organ systems, numerous disease states, numerous patient populations, numerous countries around the world. It's kind of, you know, not super plausible. Well, Rockefeller controls all of this. So that's, that's what happened. Now, the truth about GLP-1 receptor agonist and their ilk is that the way of the evidence suggests they provide protection, uh, for a lot of different things that seem to be weight independent, or at least have some weight independent effects, especially when it comes to the heart and the kidneys. Although there's some more interesting data emerging related to inflammation, potentially some cognitive benefits and even just longevity more broadly speaking. So with respect to the heart, the select trial showed that in 17,000 adults with preexisting heart disease, but not, but without diabetes, uh, semaglutide reduced major cardiac, uh, events by 20%. And here's, what's interesting is if you were like a, you know, this is just because of obesity management. Yeah. The benefit appeared almost immediately before significant weight loss had occurred, like these sort of risk factors had decreased and there was like a direct cardioprotective effect, which to me is like, interesting. Like what's, what else is this just an inflammation thing? Right. Cause people say that about statins too. They're like, well, statins work by decreasing inflammation, not lowering cholesterol. It's like, well, two things can be true. Like we can be seeing a benefit from obesity reduction and also a benefit from like inflammation control or even something else. We don't even know what we're looking at. I don't know. How do you view the select trial? Yeah. I similarly to other areas we've talked about on this podcast, I'm focused on the outcome and the outcomes being in a net favorable direction is where I hang my hat. It's a good thing that we see improvement in cardiovascular risk by whatever mechanism here. It would be unsurprising to me if there is a fraction, potentially a large fraction of that mediated by weight related benefits. Um, but also some that are weight independent. That is not surprising to me. That is, um, you know, that would not be a novel sort of thing as you, um, are alluding to here. One of the other areas where it's really interesting that I'm observing this more and more in the, in my patient population are patients with inflammatory conditions, um, and things like osteoarthritis and psoriatic arthritis and, and endometriosis and PCOS and things like that, who have this kind of like generalized inflammatory state and potentially some musculoskeletal aches and pains is improvements in those pains, uh, nearly immediately, uh, upon initiation of the medicine before, uh, substantial weight loss has occurred. And, uh, to preempt a little bit of a caveat there that I would make to myself is like, I'm not priming them to expect improvement in pain or, or, uh, you know, purporting this or putting it forth as a potential treatment for that. It's almost more of like an incidental observation that they are not necessarily, uh, expecting unless they have been primed elsewhere. But it's, it's another interesting thing that suggests that there are likely to be some, um, non-weight related, uh, mechanisms of benefit from these agents. Yeah. We saw that in the triumph for a study. That's the phase three clinical trial on retatutide. It was originally on, um, osteoarthritis and like, you know, pain scores. We saw a massive reduction there, but also some, also weight loss too. So like, you know, you're like, is this mostly related to the weight loss? Is it mostly related to some other sort of mechanism? Can it be both? Yeah. Yeah. To your point, mechanisms, interesting fodder for around the campfire at the, at the pub, but, uh, ultimately are the outcomes good and what are the risks? Um, there was actually another paper by one of our favorites, friend of the, friend of the show, Dr. Speakman. I don't know if you saw this. It was, uh, basically a mechanistic study, uh, looking at how, um, some aglutide affected chondrocytes. Those were like the, these, the cells in the various tissues around the joint and, uh, favorable changes there with her. So perhaps that is mediating an effect, not just inflammation, not just weight loss, perhaps some actual like cell level, um, activity going on there. Yeah. The idea of cartilage regrowth has been like the aspirational goal of like orthopedics, uh, for decades now. And, uh, there was a signal that that might actually be happening. I don't actually know how that would happen, but, um, you know, I'm glad there are smart people trying to figure that out. Yeah. Well, look, if you were a BPC person or a TB-500 peptide person, you'd say, well, that's, that's what these peptides do. And it's like, interesting, if true, where's the data in humans? And they're like, oh, it doesn't exist. Like, okay. So anyway, we do have this data in humans. Uh, yeah. So maybe, maybe just replace the BPC with the, the terzepita anyway. Um, so we talked about osteoarthritis. We talked about heart disease. Uh, we've mentioned before that there's some good evidence on, um, reducing, um, kidney disease. Uh, the flow trial here, uh, with some aglutide reduced the risk of major kidney disease by, uh, events by 24% in patients with type two diabetes and chronic kidney disease. So you would expect that vulnerable population to see the biggest benefit. Any, uh, you want to take a stab or a predict prediction on how this would work on individuals who maybe are at, are at risk for chronic kidney disease. Perhaps they have a high blood pressure, for example, like the medication might help. Yeah. I think that, uh, the lower the patient's absolute risk is at baseline, the less likely they are to have benefit, or at least the harder it would be to show it. Um, and, and so like if somebody is at elevated, but still low overall absolute risk of developing this, you would have to have a massive study for a really long time, uh, to, to show a substantial improvement in that risk. But it also depends on like, what does that at risk mean? So if it is, you know, do you know, if they have a history of high blood pressure, then maybe that's indicative of, do they have, uh, you know, some metabolic disease that itself would increase the risk of developing chronic kidney disease? Yeah. I would expect some benefit. It would probably be modest at that stage. It's just easier to show bigger effects in people with bigger levels of risk, uh, compared with those with smaller levels of risk. So I would expect that if you had a sufficiently powered trial, you might find a signal. It might not be earth shattering, um, for people who are that early. Uh, but I would expect to see one nonetheless. Yeah. And for our, uh, longevity maxers or health maxers, if you will, it was actually a new study that recently was published showing that, um, a year of GLP one therapy can actually reduce the grim age clock. If you remember back to the biological clock, those is one of the second generation clocks that we were talking about. So actually changes the DNA methylation that is picked up on that test to the extent, again, that affects outcomes. You know, we need some better mortality data, for example, to really correlate that, but look, it's not nothing that seems pretty interesting to me now. And, and, and the, and the other thing I would add is again, not a signal for harm, uh, right. Which who knows what the meaning of that potential beneficial signal is, even if it's a false positive and things are neutral, like cool, but we're not seeing signals of harm. And because that's the thing is, you know, in these frustrating conversations that I, uh, find myself trying to avoid more and more on the internet, it is often people kind of inappropriately weighting the relative benefits and, and potential risks of these medicines, blowing theoretical or potential risks way out of proportion while underweighting the potential benefits, mainly by saying that, Oh, you could instead just as easily lose this weight through diet and exercise. Like if it were truly that easy, then sure, just do it. Right. But it is in fact, not that easy for the vast majority of people who are benefiting from these medicines. Otherwise intensive lifestyle intervention, we have randomized trials on it. They would have shown, Oh, like equivalent success rates, right. Um, in terms of clinically significant weight loss, that's able to be sustained as long as people are sustaining the intervention in the same way. That is not in fact what we observe. So, you know, uh, hard to know how to argue with folks, uh, in these situations. It's tough. Yeah. Uh, well, we should say it's not all rainbows and roses here. Uh, a few different studies have been published recently showing maybe not the effect we were thinking about when it came to these GLP one receptor agonist one had to do with that cancer risk reduction. This was a really hot topic, maybe like six months ago. It was like, look, we're seeing a reduction in risk of all these various different types of cancer. And it's like, well, is this mediated by weight loss? Is it mediated by something else? Doesn't really pan out outside of the obesity related risk. That seems to be the case right now that may change in the future, but that was kind of a bummer. Yeah. Um, I don't have a ton of additional thoughts on this outside of, I think that proving cancer risk reduction, um, in this, uh, type of way, for example, if we do think it's going to be mediated by weight reduction, similarly going to need a really big study and it's probably going to need to run for a really long time to detect the signal. And so that an initial trial was negative. Doesn't, you know, rule out this possibility for me entirely. It makes me less enthusiastic about it, but I still find that potential outcome plausible enough that I think a more strongly powered study or a longer duration study may show it. Now, what would that turn into on the backend? Let's say it did show something. Does that mean that we just put everyone on these medicines under the idea of, Hey, if you're just on it for long enough, then it might reduce your risk of cancer. I actually don't see it gaining like a FDA indication for like cancer prevention anytime in, you know, for in the foreseeable future, but rather again, it may be like another kind of quote unquote off target benefit in people who are otherwise appropriately selected for the use of these medicines. Yeah. And the last sort of a bummer here has to do with, um, Alzheimer's, um, some other neurodegenerative, uh, disorders. The evoke trials were recently, uh, kind of published basically showing that the GLP ones did not really slow the progression of established Alzheimer's disease. Now reducing the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in the first place or other, other neurodegenerative conditions. That's a separate thing from actually like reducing the risk of progression. So, um, we'll be interested to see how a data pans out there, but yeah, it look, we're not, we're not chilling for, for big pharma here. We're just, here's the data and like do with it what you will. I kind of like your approach to this. It's like, look, you asked me to be your consultant and I'm happy to do that, but ultimately we decide to do is your decision. Yeah. And the, and the evoke trials, my recollection of them was that it was actually looking at oral semaglutide, not any of the injectables and it was using the ribelsis form. So like the older form of oral semaglutide up to 14 milligrams for patients with early Alzheimer's disease. So I have like kind of multiple issues with that. Like in general Alzheimer's, like nothing really works for it. We have some medicines that are approved, but yeah, I don't really, for established Alzheimer's disease. Um, yeah, we, the, the older medicines that have been around for a long time, trivial benefit, the newer medicines. Uh, I think we talked about some of those, the monoclonal infusions. I definitely don't love those. I'm not surprised that a like low potency, low efficacy agent like ribelsis didn't have a significant benefit in an exceedingly difficult to treat condition. Um, I reserve some degree of, I wouldn't say optimism, but like there's still something there to be studied as far as, um, again, longer term, more potent agents, longer lead time, maybe for patients who have not yet developed it already, or even potentially more potent agents in people who have than something kind of crummy, like a oral, the, the ribelsis form compared with now more or newer oral Wagovi or any of the injectables or the increasingly potent options. But, um, yeah, I'm not, I would never be terribly optimistic about treatment of Alzheimer's disease, at least based on history to date. Um, uh, I don't know that we're likely to crack that nut anytime soon, but we'll. Yeah. Yeah. So it seems like we've, you know, we, we've got some good signals in the evidence, uh, but we don't really have any like 30 year trials showing that GLP one receptor agonists extend maximum human lifespan. Um, but it does seem like there's something there with respect to health span, uh, delaying the onset of disease, um, particularly in individuals with, uh, obesity. Are there any results or any sort of, uh, leads there that, that are more interesting to you than anything we've discussed so far? Something that's coming out? I mean, I think that by far the most prevalent issue that we observe in the population is just this kind of constellation of actually now what's been termed CKM syndrome, right? Like cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome, um, obesity and its effects on all of these different organs. Like instead of, Hey, I'm going to put you on medicines for your heart disease and then medicines for your kidney disease and then medicines for your fatty liver disease and then medicines for your diabetes. It's like, we have something that is truly attacking like the root of this issue. Um, and so that's where most of my optimism stands as like the, the, the biggest and most prevalent health problem leading to preventable morbidity and mortality kind of worldwide at the moment. You know, we've talked about other kinds of promising avenues in this space to include some of the ones that to whatever extent you worry about lean mass, they're all looking at these agents that are maybe combined agonists of things that will not only promote fat mass loss, but maybe accretion or gain of lean body mass or muscle mass. Um, so like a, a jacked medicine. Um, I think that the fitness industry would really lose its mind when that kind of thing comes around, but essentially it would turn this into a solved problem. If that kind of thing pans out TBD, we'll, we'll see. That's an interesting idea for me. Yeah. Yeah. I think I feel pretty confident saying that these are definitely good for longevity in those with obesity, uh, type two diabetes, uh, sleep apnea, particularly if that's a comorbidity and, uh, some forms of heart disease, again, especially if they have a obesity as a comorbidity, possibly good for longevity in those without any of those conditions, uh, unclear on, on evidence because mainly it hasn't been investigated in just generally healthy population. They're taking these at whatever dose. Let's see what happens. I feel confident that the sarcopenia risk is overstated when appropriately prescribed and monitored. I can think of a use case where things would get dicey thinking about a woman in her early thirties who's trying to lose like five pounds or something, um, doesn't resistance train a Pilates princess, uh, getting some research chemicals in a DIY sort of situation. Right. And it's like, sure. I don't think she's at risk of quote sarcopenia, like full, you know, the actual diagnosis, but losing some precious muscle mass, she didn't need to lose or couldn't really afford to lose. But yeah, if you use powerful agents inappropriately, like I don't, I don't know that that was really like a surprise, I guess. Yeah. Tools have uses. I mean, that's, that's the bottom line. All right. So that's the story on using GLP ones for longevity. We'll see how the data continues to evolve and change over time, particularly any notable effects that occur independent of weight loss.