 So we've spent the segment talking about the potential metabolic downside of aging and now we need to look at the hormonal decline. Let's shift gears to the latest data on hormone replacement therapy and whether it actually moves the needle on cardiac risk. Now, Austin, there's a massive wave of fear that still surrounds hormone replacement therapy or HRT, especially in women, largely driven by a misunderstanding of 20-year-old data. You see patients every day who are interested in HRT. Now, are they curious because they heard about this on the news? Well, they removed the black box warning, it's good. And if they are, do they express concerns about heart disease or breast cancer risks? Well, I think you're probably talking about the black box warning that was on, I believe, vaginal estrogen products. And most patients that I'm coming across are actually not terribly aware of that as a thing, nor is that really informing them seeking it. More often, the conversations around systemic kind of menopausal hormone therapy, that would be things like transdermal estradiol or oral forms of estrogen replacement, et cetera, that can provide benefit for a variety of other symptoms compared with local vaginal estrogen therapy, which is beneficial and essentially has no significant risks and can be used safely in pretty much everyone, which is a big reason why that black box warning was appropriately removed. But the concerns around things like heart disease risk, yeah, they go back decades at this point. And I think that if we are to do our own treatment of the data around the Women's Health Initiative and the implications that had both at the time and for how we should use these therapies these days, certainly would benefit from its own podcast. But that was definitely a different era using different agents and also in a different context compared with the way that they're more often being used now. So what I mean is literally different formulations of the hormones and also in a population that in general was quite a bit older than a lot of the folks who are interested in pursuing menopausal hormone therapy these days among the women that I tend to see day to day in practice now who are interested in it for a variety of reasons. Now, to be clear, the current kind of approved uses or indications of menopausal hormone therapy are only for a handful of things. It includes the vasomotor symptoms. So that's things like hot flashes and night sweats, et cetera. Those include the genitourinary syndrome of menopause. So vaginal kind of atrophy, dryness, pain, recurrent UTIs, things like that. And osteoporosis prevention or protecting bone health through the menopausal transition and beyond. Although that benefit necessitates kind of staying on therapy longer term, which is becoming an increasingly accepted practice. The evidence for benefits beyond those is increasingly slim, even though it is an area of, you know, lots of discussion and interest, whether it comes to claims around prevention of cardiovascular disease or, you know, prevention of dementia or addressing other symptoms that can be associated with menopause like musculoskeletal aches and pains and improving sleep and mood disturbances. A lot of people claim benefits of these things. I do not push back or challenge them when they report experiencing these things. I more often frame it as people's experience is pretty individual here. And as long as it is being done safely, I'm very open to trying menopausal hormone therapy for women who may be going through the menopausal transition, whether it's quote unquote perimenopause or beyond it, as long as it is being done safely. And there's a whole set of criteria that we use to assess patients and kind of risk stratify them, determine whether they are candidates for therapy. And if they are, which type is the safest? Because there are a bunch of different types. Again, very different from the type that was originally studied a couple decades ago in that original trial. So whether we're using transdermal or gels or creams or patches or orals or vaginal rings or all sorts of other kind of methods of administration, I'm happy to talk about the pros and cons with people individually about those, as well as the other kind of complementary hormones that may or may not need to be included as part of their regimen. So in general, it's a hot topic. Lots of people are discussing it. I think that leaning too heavily on data from 20 plus years ago is not wise. And fortunately, things seem to be evolving at multiple levels with patients in the clinical and among clinicians and even at the level of the FDA, clearly because they're paying attention to this and kind of modifying things as we go. Yeah, it is kind of interesting. As you mentioned that 20 something year old women's health initiative. Yeah, it seemed like at the time that it would increase the risk of blood clots, major cardiac events. That's what the data said. You know, you just you I got the studies are in the in the show notes. You just pull them up and it'll it'll stay right there in the in the in the in the conclusions. And yeah, it seemed like and you can correct me if I'm wrong. So when researchers went back and kind of did this like subgroup analysis based on various certain age ranges in there, they didn't find that signal. In fact, they found like a cardiovascular disease, like risk reduction in a certain cohort, like women aged 50 to 59 within 10 years of menopause. So like a 30 percent lower risk of heart attacks and death if they were in that trial. But that's not what the original data kind of like was how it was reported. Kind of an interesting shift. Do you think more people are going to end up on HR HRT now that this sort of like reversal? Oh, I think they should. I think that only a tiny fraction of women who are eligible to use menopausal hormone therapy are, in fact, using it. And there are tons of persistent fears about this. I encountered them regularly. In fact, had a woman recently who was still quite young in her 40s, but she had for other reasons had to undergo surgery that removed her ovaries. So she was essentially put into what's called surgical menopause. And that is a situation that absolutely requires hormone replacement afterwards. Otherwise, an extremely high risk of osteoporosis developing. And she presumably because of maybe poor counseling, inadequate conversation from the clinician was afraid of getting cancer. So she didn't take the hormones and then I'm kind of trying to, you know, nudge in the direction of, hey, we ought to take a close look at your bone density. And this is something that really ought to be addressed because in a completely other context, I've seen women who are a couple decades older in the hospital setting get admitted for multiple, you know, osteoporotic fractures. And when I take their history, they're like, yeah, I had my ovaries removed in my 30s and nobody ever put me on hormones. And here I am. And I'm like, this was 100% preventable. It's just decades too late. And so we know that there remains a lot of fear, a lot of stigma around the use of these things. It can be tricky to learn because this is not something that I would say that I received exceptionally thorough training in internal medicine residency. It's something that I had to kind of go out of my way to acquire additional training, education, and experience in being able to use these things safely and to be able to counsel and discuss these risks on an individual basis. So it takes time and effort, but it is ultimately worthwhile to be able to guide people through this kind of like a major transition in life, mitigate their risk of unpleasant symptoms, and also improve their longer term health outcomes. Yeah. Yeah. I also want to know, are you seeing some tie-ins with like the musculoskeletal system? You talked about, you know, bone density and risk of fracture and falls and stuff like that. But what about actual just like muscle function, you know, because the loss of muscle and menopause, it's not a testosterone problem. Estrogen withdrawal, you know, estrogen is like this shield, you know, has to having to do with muscle cell, not just atrophy, but also just apoptosis and such. And so are you seeing like a signal there where people who are being placed on HRT, they're having better, you know, muscular function and stuff like that, or perhaps they're more apt to go to the gym, anything like that? Yeah. It's hard for me to draw confident conclusions about like a direct causation there. I think that in general, for example, let's say that there's a woman going through the, you know, perimenopausal and menopausal transition and their sleep is just wrecked from like, you know, drenching night sweats and hot flashes throughout the day. And they're exhausted during the day and that impacts motivation to, you know, exercise. And certainly if they're able to, maybe limits their, you know, load tolerance, volume tolerance, intensity. And so maybe, you know, if you address those symptoms and they're able to sleep better, rest better, recover better, then they're like more energized and motivated. And so there's like multiple different ways that you could impact the kind of final, what we'll call the final common pathway to like muscle hypertrophy and physical performance. And it's really difficult just like either anecdotally or on a patient by patient basis to draw confident conclusions from this. So this is something that would just require a larger scale research. And I do not feel like it would be appropriate for me to comment confidently on this. Perhaps that is to our own detriment in the medical podcasting influencer space. Whereas a lot of people would just spit out hot takes about this and say, well, here's what I observe. And then that becomes a source of, yeah, a lot of discussion, debate, interest, whatever. I would not claim confident conclusions there. I think there's a lot of potential plausible mechanisms of benefit, but not sure. Yeah. Well, and it's not just about the ladies, but also there's some stuff on men here, particularly with respect to testosterone deficiency. Now, we've talked at length about testosterone deficiency, low testosterone on this podcast. I expect we're going to talk about it more. We've got a book talking about it. Like, I can't get away from it. It's not possible. Um, but there's some tie in here between low testosterone, testosterone deficiency and heart disease risk of major adverse cardiac events. Now, we think that for most low testosterone and again, more appropriately named testosterone deficiency is frequently a symptom of it. The larger picture of what's going on health wise, not necessarily the cause. Most notably due to obesity. Uh, that's been the biggest change. Um, people talk about like this secular decline in testosterone. It's like, yeah, mostly related to, uh, obesity. Now with respect to replacing somebody's testosterone and its effect on a cardiovascular health, there's a lot of, um, interesting fodder around that. But when you look at the actual data, it seems like it's mostly neutral, um, with respect to heart attacks and major adverse cardiac events. There's some signal that there's like this, uh, maybe metabolic paradox that occurs at the level, like with respect to lipids. So like LDL goes down, triglycerides go down, visceral fat goes down, all these risk factors for heart disease. But HDL cholesterol slightly goes down too on with folks who are, uh, taking testosterone replacement therapy. And oh, by the way, there's no real outcome data, like long-term on this. How do you, how do you view, um, you know, testosterone replacement therapy in an individual with testosterone deficiency with respect to like cardiovascular disease trajectory? Yeah, I think, um, we should look at the, this from a few different angles. One is, well, the historical or more traditional perspective would be, oh, this significantly increases risk. And I think that we have increasing data that would challenge that position, uh, at this point that again, when it is appropriately used and monitored, that we do not have evidence that it is, you know, causing people to drop from heart attacks left and right. That is fortunately not the case. So that side of the equation or of the curve is reassuring to me. The other side being, well, if it is not causing harm, that's great, but how confident can we be that it is directly leading to benefit? And that is where I am a bit less confident. Um, I think that we have a fair amount of evidence indicating some essentially like neutral effects. We have association type data that is suggestive of benefit, meaning that when they look at kind of an observational way, uh, looking at those who are on testosterone therapy versus who are not those who are on might have lower cardiovascular risk, but that is not nearly enough or strong enough data to conclude that the testosterone therapy itself is what is lowering their risk. There is still all sorts of both measured and unmeasured kind of biases in those types of data sets to where the people who are put on are fundamentally different from those who are not. And that could lead to a big part of those differences. So we do not yet have what I would call a strong prospective, like randomized trial showing that like putting men with testosterone deficiency on testosterone therapy, like directly leads to a reduction in their risk of having incident cardiovascular events or cardiovascular death. If, if we had that, that would be, you know, earth shattering, that'd be a pretty big deal. Uh, but we do not have that at this point. So that caveats are, or is kind of how I couch the conversation. I think that to your point that, uh, the, in the developed world, if we want to call it that the vast majority of, um, you know, situations where we see testosterone deficiency tend to be in association with metabolic disease. And so we also see that addressing that metabolic disease by way of lifestyle measures, uh, through GLP one receptor agonists through metabolic bariatric surgery, we tend to see improvements in blood testosterone levels. When people lose weight, um, through whatever means, whether that is enough to fully resolve their testosterone deficiency is variable. Some people will normalize their testosterone levels. Others will not. And for those who do not, who may have clinical symptoms that still are suggestive of testosterone deficiency, totally reasonable. And in general, quite safe, unless they have some other contraindication that hasn't been brought up yet, um, to try them on a course of testosterone therapy. And it does not necessarily need to be, Oh, if I give you your first dose, you are on this for the rest of your life. Like it is actually okay to trial it, see if they get benefit. And if not, there is a reasonable early timeframe in which you can stop it and, uh, not lead to a significant risk of like permanent HPG or testicular suppression. And so that's a, I think a pretty reasonable, safe approach to take. If somebody has like maximized the lifestyle levers and if they've, you know, been able to lose as much weight as they're able to through those means or through pharmacologic means, or if maybe they do, or don't want to go through metabolic surgery and you want to try it, I would not promote the use of it to say, Oh, this is going to be used to lower your heart disease risk because I don't have a ton that I can hang my hat on there. But it can be something that, Hey, this can improve your overall quality of life potentially in a similar way to how I have that conversation on menopausal hormone therapy. Any benefits on other stuff like cardiovascular risk are as yet unproven. Um, and so that's kind of how I have that conversation. Yeah, no, well said. Uh, so for women, if you're a candidate for, uh, hormone therapy, uh, the benefits for like vasomotor symptoms, like flushing, bone density, and genitourinary syndrome of menopause, uh, likely outweigh the risks. Big benefits there for those things. Um, other cardiovascular health and muscle preservation, uh, benefits remain hypothetical, mostly unproven, but interesting. You should consult with a clinician who's familiar with this and who can discuss your specific case. Both the Dr. Baraki's are available for this link that in the show notes for men. Testosterone deficiency is often a symptom of underlying disease, most commonly obesity. As you mentioned, addressing overall health may be sufficient to restore testosterone levels to normal. Um, if testosterone replacement therapy, TRT is indicated, it seems to improve risk factors related to heart disease, thereby theoretically lowering the risk of having a major, uh, cardiac event, though long-term data isn't currently available. So TBD.