рыbariatрыры, assebрырыры, assebрырыры, assebрырыры, assebрырыры, assebрырырыры, assebрырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырырыры Now, to be fair, in those programs, you do alter intensities and stuff like that, but it's the same exercise, so that really wouldn't count. But imagine if it's just every single day, it's squat, bench, deadlift, 80% of your one rep max for the same number of sets and reps. Technically, your micro cycle then would be a day long, and you just repeat it multiple times a week. More commonly, there are some beginner type programs where it's just two different workouts that are alternated. So in that case, the micro cycle length is two days. And then most training, like most of our programs, for example, are like a week-long micro cycle where you have a set amount of programming through the week, and that's repeated each week of the mesocycle, which is basically how long micro cycles are repeated for until it's changed. This is also like a block, for example, so usually multiple weeks. And the last thing I'll talk about is the macro cycle, which is the long-term plan of mesocycles, which include all of those repeated units of training, which we call micro cycles. The macro cycle typically is over a year, although for like Olympic athletes, it could be like a quadrennial, for example. If the question really is about micro cycle length, so like what is too short and what is too long, I think that having like a one-day micro cycle where you just do the same workout every single time, I think for most people, that's going to be too short. My exception is that if somebody is training like once a week, for example, and that's the only resistance training that they're doing, I could see a case for like a one-day sort of micro cycle. It's not great, but it's certainly better than not. So I imagine if my dad at some point is like, look, man, I can lift one day a week. What do you want me to do? And I give him the same three exercises. That's not probably how I would program it, but I could see if he was like, I just prefer these three or four or whatever it is. I'm doing these in perpetuity. I'm like, all right, I guess your micro cycle is a day. I have stronger opinions though of how, you know, what is it, too long of a micro cycle. I've definitely programmed stuff where a micro cycle is really like two weeks long, you know, where people are like alternating things, you know, every other week. And so the actual micro cycle, instead of being one week, it's two weeks. But I started thinking about like CrossFit type programming. And if you went from like, all right, workout number one is push jerks, five heavy singles, right? And then workout 309, that's when you finally get back to push jerks for five singles, you know, and you're repeating the thing all over again. To me, that's too long of a micro cycle. It's too much randomization. And you're basically, you've spread out your ability to adapt too far. That's kind of how I would feel about that. I don't think though that this is what the person's asking. I think they're actually asking about like how long should a block of training last? What is too short and what is too long? And that I actually have a, you know, a better answer for, I think. Most of the time, an actual training block. So not a deload block, not a pivot, not a low stress, not like an injury rehab type approach. I think for most people, a mesocycle is going to last somewhere between three to eight weeks on average. If it's a bad program, like, or somebody blows up initially, it is just not working. They hate it, whatever. It could be shorter, but you're doing that in response to some feedback that you're getting. Similarly, the mesocycle, the block could be longer if somebody is off to the races and they're just killing it for, you know, maybe 10 weeks, maybe 12 weeks. I haven't had people go for much further than that unless we've done some significant modification within the training program. In which case it's not the same as a cycle. So, like, yeah, you got to cut it. So most of your training blocks, I think, should be somewhere between, like, three to eight weeks long. And you should plan on at least having an option to change sometime as you get closer to the end there. If you – the reasons for you needing to change usually come down to three major categories. One is logistics. So, like, your time availability to train has dramatically changed, for example, or your goals dramatically change. You're going to a meet, for example, or you have to – you know, it's in season now. Your preferences. That's another reason to change your training mesocycle, right? Someone could be getting great results from a particular training program. It's for, like, hypertrophy, say, and now they want to, you know, prep for a powerlifting meet. Well, you have to change your mesocycle. So it's another reason to change. And then the last one is stagnation. As people's results sort of peter out, they become accommodated and accustomed to the training block, and they stop making sort of gains. That's another indicator to change things up. Injury would be a fourth category perhaps. So that's what I think about when I think about mesocycle length. Like, what is the optimal mesocycle length? I'm thinking somewhere three to eight weeks, changing it if you need to, if you want to, or if the program is no longer working for you. That's pretty much – those are the reasons. How do you feel about that? Yeah, there's little that I would take issue with in your answer. I think that I would even broaden a little bit up front to where if somebody had a set session that they really enjoyed and they habitually trained twice a week and they didn't have super high performance aspirations and they just wanted to do the same session twice a week, I'd be like, well, again, compared with doing less or doing nothing, like, I'm down with that. I think that if we start doing the same session even more frequently than that, I start to have a little bit more concerns about, like, overuse syndromes and things like that, right? But if somebody wants to SBD twice a week within reason, I'm like, cool. I'm even fine with that. So I also do like, for my own training, for some of the folks that I've been working with, spreading them out across a two-week repeating cycle to introduce a little bit more variation, not only to, again, mitigate some of that overuse risk, but also just to break people out of the mindset of, like, I have to beat last week's numbers every single week. Since we know that once you're trained to a certain level, that adaptation to the point of, you know, true strength gains doesn't necessarily happen on a weekly basis or that quickly. And so giving people a little bit more time to adapt and, like, kind of shake out the rest of normal ups and downs of training week to week can be useful. And I would have no problem even stretching it to three weeks or something like that. Going much longer than that, then you start to be like, okay, is this just a separate training block? But repeating cycles of a week, of two weeks, of three weeks, I'm down with any of that. Yeah. Yeah, I like that. For more on how to program, our Low Fatigue e-book, it's pretty much our current meditation on programming. So if you want to check that out, I've got a lot of information there on how to program, how to troubleshoot, and so on and so forth.