 d Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So what's the controversy here? Well, nutrient timing is a popular strategy for enhancing training adaptations and performance. From the standpoint of muscle strength and size, for example, the concept of a, quote, post-workout anabolic window has been proposed, whereby a limited time exists after exercise to optimize training adaptations. Some have gone so far as to claim that nutrient timing is even more critical to muscle development as total calories and total macronutrient intake. As far as why this controversy exists, I think that it's like a perfect storm. One is there's been this increased recognition that recovery from exercise is important, and there's been a lot of evidence on like sort of what mechanisms are at play. So like, ooh, you exercise and you're depleting your glycogen levels in the muscle. You're breaking down muscle protein, and then if you replace them immediately, theoretically, your body will supercompensate. You'll store more glycogen. You'll store more protein, add bigger muscles. Athletes at the highest level, there's often like very intensive efforts to right after they're done with a training session, they got to recover by some sort of mechanism, whether it's eating like whole foods or some sort of supplement. There's also a lot of marketing for supplements based around this. Oh, you need post-workout carbs and the specific type of carbs, whether it's a highly branched cyclic dextrin, whether it's pure glucose, you know, whatever, something like that. And this focus on mechanisms like, ooh, this increases muscle protein synthesis or this increases the rate of glycogen replenishment or decreases the rate of muscle protein breakdown. All of those mechanisms are reasonable to investigate and discuss, but we can't, you know, blind ourselves to, well, what are we really looking for? Because I personally, I don't really care about my muscle protein synthesis rate compared to, well, what did my strength do? What did my muscle size do? How did my endurance performance do after this particular intervention? Muscle protein synthesis, muscle protein breakdown, glycogen breakdown, glycogen resynthesis rates, those are all short-term sort of proxies for like what's going on in the body to tell you like, well, is this person going to gain more muscle mass? Is this person going to gain more muscle size or muscle strength? Is their endurance performance going to be supported? But you can actually measure those things too. And so like measure the proxy if you want. That's fine for generating hypotheses, but then you got to test it later on. But the last part here that I think also contributes to the controversy here is generally speaking, poor study design. Because a lot of the studies that led to this controversy about a quote-unquote anabolic window, post-workout anabolic window, tested untrained individuals who were previously fasted going into a session. And it's like, well, yeah, if you're fasted, that's a totally different person than someone who's fed going into a workout. And so the quote-unquote effects of post-workout nutrition would be different for somebody who is fasted compared to being fed. You see the same thing with intra-workout nutrition where people are like, oh, you got to eat like gummies in the middle of a workout. And it's like, well, maybe if you were fasted, that's different than if you were fed, and that's what the data shows. Mostly unnecessary intra-workout nutrition unless the sessions are longer than about 90 to 120 minutes. And that's mostly in either really high-volume resistance training or very intensive sort of endurance efforts or even prolonged efforts. Yeah, not an hour and a half or two-hour session because your rest periods are 10 to 15 minutes long. Yeah, or you're yapping, you're spitting game, which 0 to 10 would not recommend. So let's see if we can come up with a consensus here and wrap this up. So based on existing data in the fed state, there's little evidence supporting the need to immediately consume a post-workout meal. And most of the time, that's being recommended as a combination of protein and carbohydrates in that post-workout window. This is provided that a person otherwise eats the same amount of calories, the same macronutrient intake, et cetera. If fasted, whether overnight or otherwise greater than four to six hours between meals with no snack before a workout, sure, would recommend hustling to get a meal in. But that's mostly because you haven't eaten in a while. A few exceptions here. First exception, if there's a short turnaround before the next training session or competition. So, for example, like eight hours or less than eight hours. Yeah. Post-workout nutrition, very, very important just because you have a limited amount of time here. But if we're talking about 24 hours or 48 hours between your next exercise session because you work out three days a week, which, hey, we're big fans of, this doesn't apply to you. Just go on living your life. Yeah. Totally. If you have a very high training volume such that you're spending 20 hours, 30 hours a week exercising, well, because of that, you have a limited amount of time overall in your week to eat. And so at that point, post-workout nutrition becomes far more important just because you have a limited amount of time to take in enough energy to support your existing body weight and subsequent performance. So overall, I would recommend that folks eat somewhere between three to five meals per day, three to five hours apart. And it should produce a situation where an individual is fed for each workout and gets a meal after each workout. It's just the timing of that meal after the workout to me doesn't really matter unless somebody is like, look, I'm going to train again in a few hours or I got another competition in a few hours. If you prefer to train first thing in the morning and you want to be fasted, well, yeah, that post-workout meal is going to become more important. But not because of this, quote, post-workout anabolic window. So it's mostly because you were fasted before and now it's time to eat. Yeah, I remember getting, I mean, this was 20 years ago at this point, but just getting blasted all the time with ads from like T Nation for every possible supplement to take. Like pre, intra, early, intra, late, post, before bed, day off. Like they went hard with that kind of stuff. I'll be honest. This is something that I haven't thought about ever in years. In years. I think that there was a time very early on in my training career where, you know, I didn't know anything and I was listening to, you know, the advice that was around at the time. So I did try to get something in like probably a lot quicker than I needed to afterwards. But these days, yeah, not something I think about really at all. And, you know, for example, recently with this move and all the effort and work and how crazy those days can be, it's actually worked out best for me to try to get up and go and get some training in first thing in the morning before the day starts. And I get sucked up in projects or whatever else needs to happen around the house. And I've just gotten up and I've gone and I've been fasted and I've done my training, not because I prefer to train that way, but it just is. And I've not given any thought to this concern over my anabolic potential or my window in that time frame. I just eat when I get back and then go on living my life. And ultimately it's fine. Is there any compromise? I mean, maybe, but it's also a compromise that would only be in the short term anyway. I would rather train fasted than not train or train fasted and maybe actually perform a little better when I'm energized in the morning compared to waiting until later in the day when I would otherwise feel bettered and ready to train. But I've been smoked by like working around the house all day or something like that. Right. So there's a lot of tradeoffs to consider. And this window is not one of them, at least for me. And I don't think it is for you either. Yeah, correct. Yep. I think ultimately that I just want to have my three to five meals a day. I eat when I eat. I want to, I prefer to have a meal within 90 minutes prior to exercising. And then because my, if it's 90 minutes before and then my workout session takes 90 minutes. So now I'm at three hours that I got to go home, a shower or whatever. It's another hour or so. Well, now it's four hours, but time to eat again. And so that's my post-workout meal, but I'm not like bringing a shaker to the gym, you know, and like, I just finished my last set. I leave all the equipment out. I hustle to fill it up with water. Like, I got to get it in now. Yeah. Yeah. Body doesn't work that way, particularly when you were fed going into it for sure. Here's my hot take. You ready for a hot take? Sure. I think that generally speaking, people consuming a lot of intro workout food. I think that's, that's generally net negative for the vast majority of individuals. And here's why. One, most folks are not training at a high enough level and doing enough training where they have limited opportunities to eat. Otherwise, that's one thing too. Most people are not training long enough where, yeah, really making sure that you have enough glycogen on board in your muscles to fuel activity is the rate limiting step. It's just, look, if you're training two, three hours at a time, different situation, particularly if you're fasted, but most people are not. And so there's really no benefit to consuming food in between. But instead what you're doing is limiting the sort of period between meals where your body is like figuring out how to deal with low energy availability, clearing sugar. You know, you're just all perma fed. And it's the same thing. Constantly postprandial. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like when people are in the hospital and they're getting, you know, TPN or something like that around the clock. And you're like, yeah. So in addition to the medical condition for why you're in the hospital, that's contributing to some insulin resistance and this, that, and the other. But you're also constantly fed. And so it's just like constantly grazing throughout the day versus having discrete meals, which is what you would prefer. And, oh, by the way, the majority of foods that people are consuming in the middle of a workout are highly processed, added sugar or whatever that are not very filling. And so to me, that represents a nidus for like excess energy intake. And I'm like, bro, you didn't need that. Most of the time. If you need to gain weight and that's the strategy you want to pick, like fine, I guess. But, yeah, it's just funny to me. I see people with these huge jugs of, you know, basically liquid sugar, right? Yeah. And they're just consuming it throughout a workout and they're doing like some bodybuilding stuff. And I'm like. Yeah. That definitely is not a context where that makes sense to me. I think the ultra endurance stuff, the, you know, super, super high volume aerobic work, things like that, where they're sucking down gels on their, you know, 90 grams an hour training, stuff like that. That's totally fair. I don't see any almost any situation where I'd be doing that in a in a lifting context, particularly if I'm training to my preference relatively frequently because I could not train that high volume in one session as often as I'd like to train in general. How many people do you think that are having like, you know, during a lifting session, 50, 75 gram, 100 grams of carbs during a workout from, you know, added sugar or just pure sugar, whatever. How many of those folks do you think are like, I would never have a regular Coke? Yeah, right. And it's like, I mean, you could, if you wanted to, that would be the time. Theoretically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In the same way that general dietary patterns probably shouldn't be that sweet. You should probably also not always be fed. There you go. There you go. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial. Just wanted to bring to your attention again. If you want to become a Barbell Medicine Plus member, you want to listen to the podcast ad free, you want early access to them, you want discounts on our products, early access to our products, and all for the cost of about a cup of coffee a month. And the first month's free. Head to barbellmedicine.supercast.com. We'd really appreciate your support there. And before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week. you