 If we're moving the goalposts from generic activity to these sort of elite performance targets that we associate with health, we have to address the most contested topic in the longevity and recovery communities, dietary protein. We're essentially caught between two competing biological realities. On one side, you have the argument that high protein, especially that from animal sources, is like stepping on a gas pedal for aging by over-activating growth pathways like mTOR and IGF-1. And then on the other side, we have this frailty trap where losing muscle mass and power is a much more immediate threat to your independence than theoretical cellular signaling. Between these arguments and the recent changes to the dietary guidelines that have raised the target protein intake, the question is, how much protein should people be eating for longevity? So Austin, before we get into some of the science, how would you even go about answering this question? A lot of it would depend on the person I'm talking to and trying to kind of meet them where they're at in both their level of understanding, knowledge, what their goals are, and what they're trying to accomplish. There are going to be those who come from a background of either relatively little knowledge or purely from the all I've read everything in the world around the longevity space. And so I'm coming in with a bias towards protein restriction, in which case we might need to discuss like, oh, there's actually some potential benefits to consuming some dietary protein, particularly in a supportive role for the resistance exercise that we just went into great detail on to support the adaptations that we're looking for there. And then we may also, and more likely in our context, have somebody coming in who's coming from the strength and power athlete world, bodybuilding, et cetera, who is trying to consume very, very large amounts of dietary protein, in many cases, more than they might actually need. And I think that both of us would retain some skepticism that that level of intake would be necessarily actively harming them in many situations. But the level that they actually require is probably less than they think. And they may actually derive some benefit through smart substitutions with other types of food sources. And so, you know, it really, as with many of these kinds of patient level conversations, it's just individualized based on who I'm talking to. As far as answering this question on the scientific level, that's like another whole kind of question here that is not really our niche of like, how would I go about designing a research study to answer this question? Because then you have to start out by defining like, well, how are we defining longevity? And then going through the whole process of setting up a nutritional epidemiological study, which is, yeah, I would defer to our friend, Dr. Flanagan, to help us with that kind of thing. Yeah, it still doesn't absolve us from answering the question, you know, do we need to lower our protein targets or raise them? And so I think we should look at some data and just see the arguments on both sides. And maybe we can come to some sort of agreement or consensus here. All right. So the argument for lower protein, the case for protein restriction is built on the nutrient sensing pathway known as mTOR. OK, so you eat a bunch of dietary protein. This pathway sort of kicks off and it is an anabolic pathway. And if you're a lifter, you're familiar with this because you're like, yeah, when I lift weights, it does the same pathway, too. You're very concerned with your mTOR related signaling. But advocates of a lower protein diet argue that chronic activation of this growth pathway via high amino acid, high protein intake, especially from leucine rich animal sources, accelerates cellular deterioration or senescence. Now, this view is backed by significant rodent data where low protein diets consistently lead to longer lifespans in controlled environments. And proponents of this view suggest that the higher IGF-1, so insulin like growth factor one, that those levels, particularly during middle age, are the primary driver of cancer and metabolic dysfunction. From this perspective, the modern high protein diet is a biological mismatch for long term cellular health. And for reference, most adults in the United States are eating a decent amount of protein. It's about 88 grams of protein per day or about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now, again, there's a lot of variation here. That's the average. Austin, what do you think about the idea that adults should be eating less protein to live longer? Based on what has been laid out here so far, I take kind of multiple issues with this. The first is that living longer itself is, in my mind, an incomplete goal, like living longer at all costs. And so there is a threshold beyond which there would actually start to be costs from further and further protein restriction. The other is that this argument so far is based predominantly on mechanistic type arguments, which I think, as we've laid out before, you and I are both a little bit reticent to adopt in our clinical recommendations with great confidence. It might be something that comes up in our conversations, but is heavily caveated and tempered when it is based purely on mechanistic evidence. And the last reason is that protein is not one thing. And I suspect that the effects of the actual foods themselves is probably of greater significance, like everything that comes in the whole food source that you are consuming, rather than the fact that you were consuming an amino acid or a chain of amino acids in particular. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's well said. And I think when we dive into some of this research on higher protein intakes and how does that correlate, this will start to kind of reveal itself. So there is a 2020 BMJ meta-analysis of 31 prospective studies that found that protein, total protein intake is associated with a lower cause mortality, but this is primarily driven by plant sources. So what they found is that people with higher total protein intake, they had a lower risk of premature death, provided that that protein was coming mostly from plants. So for every 3% increase in calories from plant protein, that correlated with a 5% reduction in the risk of premature mortality. It's thought that plant protein signals or may signal longevity more effectively because it typically results in a lower IGF-1 level than animal protein, particularly in sedentary individuals. There's also this weird kind of signal in the data that's related to age, something this transition between like middle age and older age. So for adults aged 50 to 65, higher protein intake, 20% or more of calories, that was associated with a four-fold increase in cancer mortality. These are mostly sedentary individuals. We're not talking about lifters who are protein maxing, for example, and there is a risk of dietary pattern confounding. Basically means like what else are you eating and where's this protein coming from? It's not plant-based. It's more animal. It's processed food, for example. It does seem to disappear with more plant protein intake. But then it shifts for adults over the age of 65. High protein intake is associated with reduced cancer and all-cause mortality. Maybe acting as like a protective factor against frailty if you were thinking about sarcopenia risk, for example. So Austin, do you think that this age-related change in proteins' effects are due to maybe developing anabolic resistance and subsequent sarcopenia risk? Or it's just like an artifact of the data set and it's just noisy? Yeah, I think it's super noisy. I do not have confident conclusions here. And so I think it's honestly a waste of time for me to speculate a ton on this. Because this whole body of literature is really complex and nuanced to interpret, even though at the same time the conclusions that we tend to draw and how that informs our recommendations is not nearly as complex. I think that for me, if anything, over the years, my protein recommendations for folks have been revised downward. And I think that that's emerged from a transition from a focus on optimizing kind of musculoskeletal adaptations without really much consideration for much else. And also the fact that a decade ago, our understanding and the body of evidence was more limited compared with where we are now to now having more data to inform these things, having a better kind of fund of knowledge around it, and then other considerations as well. So now I tend to much more often recommend falling somewhere north of 1.2 grams per kilo. And I tend to bias it much more predominantly towards plant-based sources. And that also reflects my own dietary pattern, especially in recent years. I think that we have seen compelling evidence that when people are consuming protein at this dose range of, say, somewhere in the range of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilo per day, even if the vast majority of it is coming from plant-derived protein sources, they can get very similar, if not equivalent, musculoskeletal adaptations. They get tons of other health benefits. Those protein sources also tend to come with decent amounts of dietary fiber and other kind of like beneficial plant-based bioactives and things like that. And so that is kind of where things have landed. I do not personally eat a diet that is entirely exclusionary of certain animal-derived food products, particularly dairy, as a very common source in my own diet. But others may obviously weigh and make these decisions differently. But that's been, I think, the predominant kind of shift over the years in terms of my recommendations and conclusions from the available evidence, even though some of these like little nuances and like interesting quirks and age-related variations, I don't really know what to make of it at this time. Yeah, I'm more just looking at like straight up just outcome data, like to the extent that we have them. And then just realizing this whole field is much more complex. When people say, oh, this singular factor does X, I'm like, are you sure? That's pretty challenging. So I think right now my recommendations on protein, I don't know that they're any different than they were a year ago, two years ago. If anything, I'm more tolerant of an even lower intake. Like if I was a hard line, 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Yeah. Okay, if it's 1.2, like it's fine. Yeah, absolutely. And I think mainly when people are thinking about protein maxing, particularly those who are not training, I think I could maybe guess that there are some benefits. Like, okay, if you're increasing protein intake and you're displacing previously like ultra-processed foods with now more minimally processed or unprocessed protein sources, that's probably a net win from an energy intake perspective. Otherwise, I think if you were eating like mostly chicken breast and fish and eggs and dairy and whatever, and they're like, should I lower my protein intake? I'm like, eh, or should I raise my protein intake? I'm like, probably not. Yeah. If anything, you could take some of that protein and allocate it towards plant-based sources. You get like a double whammy one, more plant-based food in general, likely to be better, more fiber, generally better. For people that are not eating that much protein and they're like, should I increase my protein? I'm like, yeah, but probably do it through plant-based sources if you can. Yeah. Otherwise, I just don't find this particularly interesting. I'm like, it's part of this larger dietary pattern that's much more concerning to me compared to, you know, is it 1.2? Is it 1.4? Is it 1.6? Is it 1.8? And look, if you are a highly competitive, you know, strength athlete, physique athlete or whatever, I understand that this whole thing, you don't care. Like, you just probably turned the podcast off. But if you still happen to be listening, I also don't know that there's a risk of eating that much protein. I truly don't, particularly with that sort of dietary pattern. Yeah, I agree. You're probably eating a lot of vegetables, we hope. You're probably not eating a lot of ultra-processed foods and the energy intake is likely correct for your goals. And so this isn't meant to mean like you shouldn't eat as much protein. I'm not trying to fear monger. I just think like we probably went a little too far. Yeah, I mean, but the thing is you still hear this from a lot of folks and influencers. And certain social media personalities who are like, look, you must consume an extremely high dose of protein. Otherwise, you're going to have no chance of building sufficient muscle or you're going to be at very high risk of sarcopenia. And it's like none of those things are true when you get above this like modest level. Because the context of comorbid disease and your physical activity are way more important variables when it comes to your muscle outcomes compared with whether you're consuming 1.2 or 1.6. Or if you go up to 2.2 or 3.1 or any of those sorts of things. I think that like we're kind of shifting this to put it in its appropriate level of weighting. In the if you're going to care about like musculoskeletal health, like the risk of sarcopenia for most people is not like off the charts high compared with the risk of like cardiovascular disease. Much higher risk, right? And so, you know, even just by doing a modest amount of physical training, you can avert the risk of sarcopenia. Even if you were consuming a relatively lower protein diet, you would be fine from that standpoint. Whereas the converse is not true. If you cranked up your dietary protein, but you were like completely physically, you know, inactive or insufficiently active, I'd be more worried about that person. And so we're kind of weighting these things a little bit more appropriately, I think, at this point in time for what are the actual risks that we're being faced with? And what are the outcome data that we have available to us to inform those things rather than like this chain of either mechanistic reasoning or reasoning that ignores the outcome data to say, you need protein for muscles. More protein is better. Animal protein is the most bioavailable. Therefore, like eat all the, you know, ribeye in the world. And it's like, yeah, that breaks apart at multiple levels along the way. Yeah. Yeah. Well said. All right. Well, when we come back from this break, we're going to talk about the most potent peptide that's trending on TikTok. Oh, God. GLP once.