 them. For background information, you need to be familiar with the fitness fatigue model, which is used to describe how people adapt and respond to exercise. In this model, performing exercise drives a simultaneous increase in both fitness and fatigue levels. Now, there are many exercise variables that can be adjusted to try to generate more fitness and less fatigue, but there are no free lunches here. More exercise will tend to drive more fitness and more fatigue, whereas less exercise will tend to drive less fitness and less fatigue. All right, with that in mind, let's imagine a lifter who squats 310 pounds for three sets of six reps at an RPE 8. So two reps left in the tank, and he does that on week one. He comes back on week two, and he squats 315 pounds for three sets of six reps, but this time it was a soul-crushing bone-on-bone RPE 10 for each set. It was maximal. No reps left in the tank. First question is, which day was he stronger? You got your answer yet? Now, most people will look at the number on the bar and say that he was stronger on week two. 315 pounds is more than 310 pounds, right? So he's stronger when he squatted more weight. But the fact that the effort was much harder on week two should influence your interpretation. On week one, he did the work each set with two reps left in the tank, meaning he could have definitely squatted 315 pounds if he wanted to. Sure, it might have been a little harder, but it's unlikely that adding a measly five pounds would have made it a 10 out of 10 maximal effort like he experienced on week two. If we compare the two efforts, his performance was either roughly the same or lower on week two as it was compared to week one. If he had actually gotten stronger, he should have been able to lift more weight with the same relative effort, meaning that he should have been able to squat 315 pounds for three sets of six all at RPE 8 or with two reps left in the tank. But since he didn't actually get stronger in the time between the workouts, perhaps maybe even getting weaker, some folks might interpret this as a stall or a training plateau. But why? Was it a lack of fitness adaptations, in this case strength, coming online? Or was it too much fatigue to where the lifter couldn't recover before the next session? Now, if we think it's a lack of fitness, we would need to increase the signal from the exercise program to drive more strength development. We might need more volume, more intensity, or more something to get the wheels turning. In the short term, this is unlikely to immediately produce results as the added training will also drive additional fatigue and the body is going to need some more time to adapt or accommodate to it. If we think it's a lack of recovery, adding more work is like trying to put out a fire with gasoline. In that case, we would need to pull back and reduce the signal from the exercise program. In the short term, this might work to see an increase in strength as reducing the amount of training being done can temporarily increase performance as fatigue is dissipated or bled off. Now, this is how most peaking programs work. But if we reduce the exercise over the long term, we're going to get less of a signal to improve fitness too. Now, in this particular scenario, we don't really know why the lifter didn't get stronger because there's just not enough information. It's only been a week and that just doesn't tell us much. Now, many people react to a one-week stall by panicking. They see the bar speed slow down or the weight stay the same and they immediately want to change their program. They're responding to short-term noise and in doing so, they often destroy the long-term signal. Adaptations require the consistent application of an appropriately dosed stimulus over a long period of time. You can't rush it and you certainly can't get more out of doing less than you actually need long-term. So, we decided it was time to stop the guessing game. Today, we're dropping a brand new six-part audio series on Barbell Medicine Plus called the Training Plateau Action Plan and it comes with an actionable PDF to help you determine exactly why you stalled and, most importantly, what to do about it. Now, to give you a taste of how we think through these problems, I'm sharing a clip from our recent Ask Us Anything that, again, I did with Dr. Baraki for our Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers. We start by defining what a plateau or a stall is, as well as some strategies for determining the cost and how to move forward or get over the hump. Here's that conversation. So, the question is, if any of your lifts stall for more than three to four weeks or you hit peak performance for a certain rep range and your performance drops, will you increase volume for the next block or try to adjust variables like exercise selection for the same block and or rep ranges? And also, is there a time where power lifters will benefit from an extended hypertrophy block to break through a plateau instead of doing a power lifting specific block? Pretty interesting question. We've talked about this a number of times in different places. Should we do a dedicated podcast on this? You guys can comment and let us know, you know, like power lifting performance, what do for programming? I don't know. Maybe that's interesting to some people or maybe it's just a dwindling cohort of our audience. We'll see. But tell me what you think about this, Dr. Baraki. When I think about a stall, I want to like define it, you know, like or a plateau. And I think about it as a lack of progress for about three to four weeks, despite consistent effort and being in a resource rich environment, meaning that the person is eating reasonably well, sleeping reasonably well, there's not this crazy life stress or environmental stress that's going on. So like, you know, we would predict that if the program was appropriate as far as the formulation, so what's in it and the correct dose that you would see some demonstrable progress in that timeframe. And in particular, I'm thinking about the priority lifts. So like the exercises that come like first, second, or even third on like our templates, whereas like, you know, if this biceps curls at the end, I'm like, I don't know that I care that much. And I don't know that I can quantify that as a stall. It's just like, look, it's at the end of the session. So like fatigue is just going to be a thing. Does that jive with your kind of, you know, how you would define a stall or a plateau? I think it's reasonable. The only thing that I might, I don't know if it's really a quibble or just like a slightly different way to think about it is when you put a timeframe, that three to four week period that is admittedly made up just to be clear. And also something that may require a little bit of adjustment based on the person that we're talking about and where they're at in their training journey. And the reason I say that is like for you or I, you know, when we're training seriously, it's like if our lifts aren't really moving a ton over the course of three to four weeks, we are not suddenly freaking out or saying, oh, we're in a stall and like aggressively changing tons of variables. There might be some tinkering that we're doing, but at the same time, it's like, you know, I've mentioned this before. If either of us hit a PR once or twice a year, that's like a pretty good year for us at this point, right? And so it's like how much true quote unquote progress can you realistically expect outside of kind of artifactual progress? And when I say artifactual progress, that means like if you, you know, set up your training in a way that the loads necessarily go up week to week, maybe because your RPE targets are getting higher or because your rep range is going down. That's not necessarily the same thing as like progress. It's just a different way to set up your training, perhaps to give you a lead in to build some physical adaptations to get your psychology right to kind of build some momentum in various ways. And so, yeah, if, if we have, you know, this, a person who, as I gather, is likely the case from the person asking this question, maybe like a early intermediate quote unquote, if we wanted to apply that kind of also made up terminology, then yeah, that's a reasonable amount of time during which we should see some demonstrable, you know, changes in their performance. But for a very early career lifter, you know, maybe we expect some things a little bit more often for a much later career lifter, we might not expect things anywhere near that timeframe. So that's the only quibble I would have here, but otherwise, yeah, pretty reasonable take. Yeah, it's not, I think you could maybe adjust that timeframe two different ways. So way number one would be like, look, if you are anybody up to like a very experienced or relatively experienced trainee within three to four weeks, you should see some demonstrable progress. If everything else has stayed the same and the environment is resource rich, like we said, and if you are an advanced lifter, it's probably going to be longer. So that's one adjustment. Alternatively, you could adjust the anchor by which you're comparing performance. So for example, your best squat all time is like, well, like 630 or something or six. Yeah, right around that. Yep. 625, I think. But that's not your current max. Totally not. Your current max, let's call it 540 or whatever it is. Right. And so even then with your current max, I would expect some sort of signal of an improvement within that, you know, three to four weeks, maybe it's five weeks, whatever from where you're starting, you know, to that time point. So I think that historical anchor can be problematic. If you're trying to define a stall or plateau, I would use a more recent benchmark. How does that fair? Yeah, fair enough. All right. So the first part when I'm thinking through this is like, let's verify, let's set, let's do the assessment. Let's verify. Are we tracking estimated one RM? Are we testing actual one RM? We tend to favor the former, right? Cause like testing in training, it's like, is it really important that we get the most accurate, you know, look, you went up and then you went to a point where you failed. I don't think that's necessary, but the problem becomes when people are tracking estimated one RMs from like sets of eight or 10 or 12, or the rep ranges are moving. It's like, I don't know that this really, like, it's not giving me a strong enough signal of like, yep, you're stalled for sure. It's more like, this is just noisy data. And so at that point I might say, why don't you do a single at eight, you know, before or after, and just as a comparison. And so one strategy that I use, and you'll see it in our templates and in my coaching clients is like week one, this is just an example. The numbers are kind of made up. It depends on the person, but they'll do a squat four at seven, four at eight, four at nine, or four at six, four at seven, four at eight, these ascending sets to triangulate their current strength potential. And then at the end of the block, let's call it eight weeks later, they'll do four at seven, four at eight, four at nine. It's a similar, it's like a test type thing just to compare and say, did you get stronger or not? And that kind of gives me feedback that I feel like is relatively, you could compare it without doing too much, you know, rationalization or too much hand wavy mental gymnastics sort of stuff. So that's the first thing I want to verify. Part two is, and this is like, you know, the, I don't know what the market size is for like strength training as far as money goes, but let's call it the million dollar question. You have to determine whether or not it's insufficient stimulus, right. Or insufficient sort of adaptation, like, is it too much or too little basically. And that is challenging to, um, uh, to discern. So, you know, if you're not getting enough stress to drive an adaptation, you won't see the fitness adaptation provided you're measuring it in some sort of way that's repeatable. And if you're not able to recover or respond to it, like excessive fatigue, you're doing too much, you're also not going to be able to, uh, demonstrate that improvement in fitness adaptation. So discerning that, like teasing that out is challenging. When I think about it, I'm like, if it's insufficient, person's probably not sore very often. They feel pretty fresh on a daily basis. Uh, when they go into the gym, it's just kind of, uh, stagnant the weights that they're using. Uh, for example, on the other hand, with excessive fatigue too much, I'm like, you're probably sore more often than not. You might have some joint, you know, pain type stuff that's kind of popping up. Your motivation might be a little compromised because every session is kind of a grinder. Your session RPEs are higher, like stuff like that. Does that seem to make sense to you? Yeah. I think that's often how we have these conversations with people when they have these concerns, trying to get a much more of a subjective history and how they're feeling day to day, how they're approaching their workouts, how they're leaving their workouts to kind of give us a little bit of direction of, am I pushing further or am I pulling back? And then if I'm, or am I keeping things kind of more steady, giving it more time sometimes is the right answer. So there's a lot of different paths, but some of that subjective input from the trainee is really essential. It's not something that is always very clearly quantifiable that will point you in a confident direction that the athlete's input is really important. Yeah. You got to make it. You're just hedging your bets. You're like, I feel like it's probably too little, or I feel like it's probably too much. And those have, you know, different sort of courses of action. If you feel like it's not enough, then you're going to need more training load. And if you feel like it's too much, you need less training load. And so once you've kind of chosen your path, two paths divergent to the woods and I chose the one that's whatever, you got to pick a path and then you're just manipulating training load. So training load is not only just weight on the bar, but the reps that you use the volume that you're doing and then the proximity to failure and all of these, it's like a, you know, a 10 band or whatever equalizer. And you get to kind of, you know, try to optimize. Um, that's effectively the formulation of the training. And so if somebody had too low of a training, a training load, then I would likely increase volume because I suspect that I was starting from a place that was, uh, intelligent. Like the exercise selection was appropriate to what you care about. The rep scheme was also appropriate and intensity was appropriate to what you care about. If maximal strength, hypertrophy, whatever. And then the proximity to failure was also intelligent. Like you weren't doing every set to RP 10, for example, for maximal strength. So those are some big assumptions, but look, if you're a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, I feel like it's a reasonable assumption. Nonetheless, um, if it's too much training load, then I'm going to go the opposite way. I'm likely going to reduce the number of sets, increase the proximity to failure. So get further away from failure, things of that nature. And, you know, that's kind of like the 10,000 foot view. There's some nuance here though. Um, so for example, what if the environment is just not conducive to you making gains, meaning you're missing meals, or for example, your sleep is compromised, life stress, whatever. If that's the case, training modification probably should still happen, but also your expectations should change just a different season of life. And so I think about when I was in the ICU, for example, doing that rotation, I think about, you know, when you were doing night shifts, for example, in medical school, it's just not a great environment. And so you're like, look, I'm kind of, this is more like maintenance mode. Like I'm training for a psychological benefit. And then also to like maintain my existing adaptations at that point, almost universally, I like reducing training load just because the sort of, it's not the training stress that's, that's pickling you or cooking you. It's the life stress. And so reducing the training load to sort of match all of that seems like a good idea. We see this like people in high stress academic settings, like, oh, I got a finals coming up or a high stress job setting. Look, I got a deadline. I got whatever. Does that kind of make sense to you? Yeah. You're mitigating detraining as much as possible compared with the idea of promoting, you know, new training adaptations. And by mitigating detraining, it makes it so that when you're ready to kind of put all your resources back in the game, you're less likely to experience either significant soreness that takes a ton of time to recover from or an injury that would be, you know, otherwise avoidable because you didn't have as big of a jump in your training loads compared to if you just like quit or taking time off altogether. So it's just kind of keeping you as prepared as possible to get back in the game once you're ready. Yeah. And then the last little wrinkle here is let's say maybe the training load is actually fine. And again, the training formulation, what the training consists of is also reasonable or fine to the best of your knowledge. Maybe it's a technique related thing. So for example, your legs may in fact be getting stronger on a squat, but if your technique is compromised to such a way, such a point where it's just, it's a ceiling right now, well, you got to work on that. And it could be, you know, broadly speaking, I separate these in like two different categories. Is this just like a skill related thing or is like a specific muscle deficiency that you need to kind of like make up for? And so I discussed this a lot in the low fatigue ebook, whatever. So that would be a great resource for not only like troubleshooting, but also like how to identify those sticking points. But yeah, that'd be kind of like the last little wrinkle here. It's like, well, maybe the training load is fine. Maybe the environment is also fine. Maybe it's just you. Like it's not me, it's you. That sort of thing. And so that we discussed the courses of action there. So that kind of all makes sense. And you're ultimately, you're just going to monitor your response and iteratively change based on the same sort of like little algorithm we just worked through. The last question here was, is there a time where powerlifters will benefit from just a straight up hypertrophy block to break a plateau? Generally speaking, outside of psychological preferences where someone's like, look, I do not want to do the low bar squad, the competition bench, my regular deadlift. I'm just burnt out outside of that setting, which is totally fine, totally normal. And like, whatever you can do a break. Not really. I don't think that powerlifters should be doing hypertrophy specific sort of training to the exclusion of training for their sport, mainly because you get decent hypertrophy stimulus from squat bench deadlift and their variations. You can prioritize hypertrophy more in a particular block if you feel like my technique is compromised by lack of musculature. And ultimately, like long-term strength gain requires both hardware updates, that's hypertrophy at the level of the muscle, more functional units to create force at the level of muscle and software updates, neurological type stuff. And you want both. So a good program should include elements of both and where you shift your priority, you know, hypertrophy versus strength. And that blend kind of depends on the individual and then also where they're at in the competitive year. If you're close to a meet, probably not a lot of hypertrophy work. If you're far away from a meet, more hypertrophy work, generally speaking. Does that make sense to you? I think it's reasonable if you don't know anything else about the person. And the reason I make that caveat is that I think that over time working with enough people, we have also seen some folks who just generally tend to do better with more of their training spent in higher rep ranges. Totally. And they prefer it, they train better that way, they tolerate it better, and it still ends up leading to like 1RM performance improvements and things like that, like keeping reps higher for longer. And then other people who just tell us reliably, they're like, gosh, every time I do higher rep sets at a particular, say, reasonable intensity range, maybe they don't respond as well or things tend to decline. And so this is all just where, you know, you're proposing like knowing nothing else about you, here's how I would go about this. But once you gather more information about the person's kind of training response or their preferences or things like that, then it just becomes an exercise in tailoring it towards those things, even though you don't necessarily need to commit to that forever. So even when I tailor something towards it, I still might say, hey, what do you think about experimenting with this for a little bit of time if it's something you never tried before? Even that is sometimes enough to get somebody excited and, you know, try hard, which is all that might be needed for them and something new. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get excited about their training for sure. The last little nugget here, and then we can move on if I don't want to do 20 minute answers to every question. Agree. I find that the people who tend to thrive upon switching to higher rep range ranges, present company, me, including, I'm talking about me, it mostly stems from like overshooting on the lower rep ranges. Meaning like the bigger weights. Yeah. Who doesn't? Yeah. And so I'm like, look, if I have a little bit of like, maybe we'll call it like a conditioning level constraint, like, look, dude, what are you going to squat for a set of 8% of 10? What are you going to deadlift for a set of 12? Show me. That's what I'm saying. So I can't, you know, take, I can't go full send because I'm like, I'm tired. Yeah. So just, just a thought. I don't, I don't have any evidence to support that. It's just completely made up, but some experience there. I hope that clears up some of the confusion about defining a stall. Like we mentioned, strength isn't linear. Sometimes the best move is to actually stay the course. However, if you've checked the boxes and you truly are stuck, you're going to need a plan. In this new series on Barbell Medicine Plus, we go into every variable, volume, intensity, frequency, exercise selection, progression. We give you a step-by-step method to diagnose and fix your own training using some intelligent troubleshooting. You can sign up now and get instant access to the series, the PDF, and our entire library of exclusive content at barbellmedicine.supercast.com. Check it out now.