 spoons spoons spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons, spoons spoons, spoons, spoons spoons, spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons spoons abnormalities in his liver chemistries, including both abnormalities in the transaminases and in the alkaline phosphatase. And this summary helps us with the general approach that I will kind of work through next. So your second question was to review these labs and to go through them. So be happy to. In general, the basic liver chemistries, we break down into two different sets of categories. One are what we call hepatocellular tests. And these are lab tests that are associated with the liver cells themselves. And when those cells get injured by some mechanism, they essentially die and release their contents into the blood. So this is similar to what we see in a lot of other areas of the body. For example, if somebody gets rhabdomyolysis from too much exercise that they're unprepared for, the muscle cells break down and release creatine kinase or CK into the blood. And so that CK becomes essentially a marker of muscle injury. When somebody has a myocardial infarction or a heart attack, those muscle cells die and release a particular protein called troponin into the blood. That is a marker of myocardial cell injury. When liver cells or hepatocytes are injured by some mechanism that I can get into shortly with the differential, they also release into the blood their contents that include things like ALT and AST. It's important to know, though, that these enzymes, ALT and AST, are also found in other areas of the body, including in muscle, especially AST is also found in muscle. And so sometimes I've seen folks get tricked when somebody actually has rhabdo. They will often also have elevations in AST. And if it's really bad rhabdo, it'll also even have elevations in ALT. And people will freak out and think this person's in liver failure when more often, it's just that they have such severe rhabdomyolysis that these enzymes that are actually involved in kind of a little bit of some Krebs cycle metabolism, I won't get that far into the weeds here. But these enzymes are mostly related to liver, but can also be seen, the elevations can also be seen with issues going on elsewhere in the body. So that's one thing that's worth pointing out. We know that ALT is a little bit more predominant in the liver than AST. And so when somebody that we can look at the pattern of elevation, so when the ALT is higher than the AST, I'm a little more concerned that maybe there's something going on with the liver. When AST is greater than ALT, it can still be liver, but I might actually also be considering things elsewhere in the body, things like muscle, things like alcohol use, et cetera. So those are the hepatocellular tests. The other couple tests that we'll talk about are the alkaline phosphatase and the bilirubin. These are tests that we categorize or classify under something called cholestatic labs. And that refers to the generation and flow of bile out of the liver and down the bile ducts into, of course, the gallbladder and into the gut. And so when there is some problem with bile flow, like an obstruction, like there's a blockage, for example, that can essentially back up and that can lead to elevations in alkaline phosphatase as well as in elevations in bilirubin in the blood, because rather than that bilirubin flowing down into the gut, it backs up, spills over into the blood. And that can lead us to suspect that there might be a blockage either within the liver, we call that intrahepatic cholestasis, or outside of the liver, like from a gallstone that's blocking the tubes of drainage, and we call that extrahepatic cholestasis. There's many more causes of these things, but that's kind of a very general breakdown of these things. Similar to how I talked about how ALT and AST are very closely associated to the liver, but not perfectly associated to the liver, we have the same issue here as well. Alkaline phosphatase can also be found elsewhere in the body in many other places. It can be found relating to the bone. So when people have bone fractures, for example, and bony disease, diseases of accelerated bone turnover, alkaline phosphatase can be elevated. There's a placental form of alkaline phosphatase. It's found, I believe, in the prostate as well. There's a handful of other places where alkaline phosphatase is present. And bilirubin elevations as well can come from breakdown of hemoglobin in the blood. And so there's other ways that we can try to determine, is this bilirubin elevation due to blood issues like hemolysis, or is this related to this kind of backup of bile from the liver? So to summarize so far, we have the hepatocellular tests, the AST and the ALT. We have the kind of more cholestatic tests, the alkaline phosphatase and the bilirubin. And then the last one that I'll mention here was the albumin. And albumin is a protein that our liver synthesizes. And so the last kind of category of liver chemistries that I tend to look at are this group of tests that we call kind of more tests of liver synthetic function. How well is the liver doing its job to produce the things that it's supposed to be producing? One of those is albumin. And another way that we assess that is actually with a set of tests that are not included here, but coagulation tests, something like a prothrombin time or PT and INR are a few other tests that we use. So when a liver is failing acutely or chronically, and it is not able to produce clotting factors, for example, that is when we start to see the INR, for example, creep up. And so that's one of the criteria for like acute liver failure falls in that range. So we have tests that look at our liver cells actively being injured, those hepatocyte tests. Is there blockage of blood of bile flow, those cholestatic tests? And then is the liver synthesizing what it needs to synthesize? And those are things like albumin and INR. So that's a kind of general overview of the approach to liver chemistries. And patients may have a predominant element here. So for example, if somebody has severe acute liver injury leading to their hepatocytes getting killed, necrosis dying, then they might have a really predominant elevation of those transaminases where they might not have as much elevation in the cholestatic tests. And it might take a while before the synthetic tests actually become abnormal. But in practice, most of the time, there's some mixture of abnormalities, and it's kind of up to us to try to identify what's the predominant abnormality here? What's the most compelling, the most striking, the most unexpected, and let that lead the way. And sometimes there's not actually a very predominant feature. Maybe they are all severely deranged, which is a much more concerning type of scenario. Yeah. And the only other test this guy has that is abnormal or was abnormal when he was in Asia and had that lab draw was the GGT, the gamma glutamyl transferase. Do you use GGT? In clinical practice for any other reason? Yeah. Yeah. Definitely do occasionally. It's actually not part of the standard liver chemistry panel. So it needs a dedicated separate order in most institutions. And so a lot of times it's used when somebody does have, for example, an elevated alkaline phosphatase to try to differentiate, is this more likely related to a problem with the bile flow in the liver and through the bile ducts? Or is this something that's more likely related to a bony problem? So that's one way to try to differentiate that is, is the GGT simultaneously elevated? In which case, okay, I'm much more honed in on liver and bile, or is it an isolated elevation in alkaline phosphatase? In which case I might be pulled away a little bit and thinking more about bony issues. There are also other kind of separate tests like lactate dehydrogenase and several others that can be used as part of a more comprehensive liver evaluation, or at least as serology, meaning falling short of sticking a needle in and taking a liver biopsy. But this is a basic overview of the kind of standard liver chemistry panel and a few associated tests like GGT and the INR. So this, this kind of brings me to that third question that you asked of a differential diagnosis for this patient. And so the way I would characterize this is again, this young, healthy guy without past, you know, any known past medical history, no meds or supplements. This is all very important kind of background for us to be keeping in mind. And he had a new onset syndrome of a nausea and abdominal pain while traveling in Asia, was found to have that initial abnormality on his labs of alkaline phosphatase elevation. But now we are approximately five months later, and he is having not only persistent lab abnormalities, but now new kind of evolving lab abnormalities characterized by a mixed pattern of both hepatocellular injury because his ALT is elevated at 96, his AST is elevated at 49, but also a little bit of the cholestatic pattern with a mild elevation in alkaline phosphatase at 128. But as I mentioned, it is common for patients to have a mixture of abnormalities, meaning it's not always purely hepatocellular or purely cholestatic or purely synthetic. It's, it's common to have a mix. In this situation between those two sets of abnormalities, the cholesterol, sorry, the hepatocellular ones actually get my attention a little bit more. Having an ALT of 96 in a healthy 39 year old is something that definitely gets my attention actually more than an alkaline phosphatase of, you know, 120. Both kind of have my attention, but I'm a little bit more intrigued by the hepatocellular injury. And so this is also the other important aspect here is the chronicity of it. The fact that it has been going on for now five months and is progressive and worsening. When somebody has a short-term insult to the liver, if they have an acute viral infection that then gets cleared, if they have a gallstone that then passes, if they take a, you know, toxic medicine, drug, supplement, and then they stop using it, you would expect an elevation and then a resolution. But the fact that this is now persistent, progressive worsening suggests that there might be either some sort of an ongoing exposure. Of course, he says he's not taking any meds or supplements. Every time we've done one of these cases where there's some concern around liver and in real life, every time I've seen this, I like grill the person every single day until finally five days later, they remember the new Chinese herbal tea that they've been drinking that they didn't think of on day one or two or three or four. So I'm going to keep coming back to that question in him. Is there an ongoing toxic exposure that he is ingesting knowingly or something he's being exposed to unknowingly? Or is there some sort of chronic progressive process going on in his liver leading to this ongoing hepatocellular injury? What types of things can that look like? The ways that our liver cells can get injured are numerous. However, the fact that again, that this has been going on for five months narrows things down quite a bit. If I have somebody who's coming in with abrupt onset syndrome, severely elevated liver enzymes into the 1000s or higher, it's like, okay, this could be ischemic injury, this could be super acute toxic injury, Tylenol overdoses, things like that. That does not fit this sort of a five month long timeline with like a modest and progressive elevation. Here, I'm much more concerned about some sort of ongoing kind of low level exposure leading to toxicity, again, drug supplement, something like that. The other very, very, very, very common would be alcohol use that would fit in that exposure category, as well as things that infiltrate, get into the liver and can cause problems like adipose. So fatty liver disease that can lead to these kind of very mild low level elevations before it gets much more severe in steatohepatitis. There are infections that can do this hepatitis viral infections. So when he was traveling in Asia, had the nausea, had the abdominal pain, did he eat something, caught acute hep A? Okay, that could happen. But I wouldn't necessarily that has a defined period when you get the infection and then it is cleared and those patients tend to get jaundiced. So that's a little bit less likely, but there are chronic liver infections that can do this. And then lastly would be some sort of autoimmune liver disease. And that's kind of still at the bottom of my list right now. It can do this, but that I would want to rule out many other things first before I got down to that level. So to summarize my final summary before we move forward in this guy is I'm most concerned about some sort of an exposure, medicine, drug, toxin like alcohol, something like that. A chronic infection would be something else to look at. And then, you know, obviously I'd be assessing maybe his habitus, his level of body fat. Does he have fatty liver disease, something like that before pursuing something like a liver biopsy, which would need some additional serologic testing before I got to that point.