 All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Well, now that we know why sarcopenia occurs, let's talk about what to do about it. Now, Austin, how do you normally speak to your patients with sarcopenia about management? You, you know, did the assessment, you got them up out of bed, you had them do the sit to stand maybe. And you're like, dang, this person is much weaker than they, they should be. Uh, how do you talk to them about this? Yeah. Much like conversations around nonspecific low back pain, where I never use the term nonspecific low back pain in these situations, I also never really tend to use the term sarcopenia. Yeah. I basically, do the assessment. And I, again, try to get a sense of what the person's day-to-day life and function are like and what their goals might be to improve that function if they have those goals or what their general health goals are. And I basically try to find an in into the conversation in real time where I can tie what are going to be my recommendations for managing sarcopenia to something meaningful to the person, right? So it's kind of like when we have conversations about back pain or osteoarthritis or whatever, you know, condition might be ailing them, what do you want to be able to do? And then are you open to negotiating a plan that might help you get to that goal? So making it meaningful to the person. And so it's the same thing here. If the person has no goals or interest or aspiration in improving their health or function, then I can talk to them all day about sarcopenia or that it's increasing their risk of all sorts of things and it's I'm going to not make any meaningful progress. But if I can get a sense of what the person's life is like, what they want to be able to do that they can't do now, or if they have a particular health goal and tie it to the very demonstrable impaired function that I just showed them by virtue of the fact that they were unable to get up out of a chair, then I might be able to kind of weave a narrative that makes sense to them to where they, you know, by working on that and improving that ability, they will then regain or build the ability to achieve the goal that they had in mind the meaningful activity or improve their health in the way that mattered to them most. So I know that was a very high level kind of general description, but that's really the approach that I take. There's not a formula to this. It's one of those things where having more experience with having these conversations and the process of motivational interviewing, you end up getting more comfortable listening to people and you can kind of in real time hear these little threads that they're offering up to you that, oh, I might tug on that a little bit and see if that ends up being a useful lead point into this process of, you know, here's a way that we can intervene or something that we can negotiate a plan that ties into something that you care about and that you're willing to, you know, have some buy-in. And if I have a family member there or a spouse there or a sibling or a child, somebody who is able to kind of be present as well to listen to this conversation, maybe to, you know, contribute to the conversation, maybe to offer to join into this process, that's another way that I sometimes do this in practice. And this applies to general exercise counseling as well. I remember recently having a gentleman in the hospital for new onset atrial fibrillation and he had obesity and he drank, you know, too much alcohol and he had just some metabolic syndrome and various risk factors for developing a fib. And I had this whole conversation and he was unaware that any of those things contributed to his atrial fibrillation. And he really wanted to, you know, address it because of various, you know, life circumstances that I'll leave out for now, but his wife was there as well and she was all about it. And they were both, you know, willing to, you know, leave the hospital and act on this, especially knowing that by intervening on these things, it would impact something meaningful to them while also reducing his risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation. So that's kind of the key method that I would apply. And so recommendations for people who are wanting to get into it really has to do with getting some experience and practice with motivational interviewing. And then if you have the really solid understanding of the condition that you're trying to intervene on, then you can kind of weave those things together in real time much more effectively. Yeah. Yeah. That to me is where the fund of knowledge stuff, where, you know, the pathophysiology, you know, what the person, you know, the risk factors and so on and so forth. You can take that with your fund of knowledge with respect to exercise prescription, weave them together and bada bing, bada boom. Yeah. That's a 100% success rate. That's how that works. We wish.