 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. On today's episode, we have a very special guest, Dr. Franco and Pellezzieri. He is redefining how we think about training and sports and performance. I came across some papers starting a few years ago and have been addicted to them. And so now you guys get to learn from one of the best in exercise physiology, statistical methodology, and everything having to do with sports science, specifically around training load and injury prevention. He's helped teams and athletes move from guesswork to a scientific approach. It's an honor to welcome Dr. Franco and Pellezzieri to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you so much for joining me. How's it going? Thank you very much for having me. It's going well. And I'm not that good as you're saying, but I really appreciate the take. Well, there you go. Yes, so look, if and when the next time I come to Australia maybe you give me a more grandiose introduction than I deserve. That's the idea here. Yeah, I can prepare a pizza also. There you go. Can you tell our audience who may not be familiar with you a little bit about what you do? What's your day-to-day? I know you're at university right now, but is it mostly research? Are you teaching? You're doing a little bit of both. What's going on over there? Yeah, now I joined the University of Technology in Sydney in 2018. Before that, I work in private sector, actually. So I'm a rookie in the academic system. But so I worked 10 years in a private research center. Basically, there was a company sponsoring athletes and teams, and I worked for them. The idea was simply that since they were giving money to teams and athletes, they wanted someone taking care of their investment. This is how I approached sport at the beginning. And after a transition for 10 years in orthopedics, just to have a new experience and open a bit my mind, and actually was really helpful. And in the meantime, I also trained athletes, teams, and other stuff. And now I'm taking care of research methods. I'm teaching research methods here at the university. And I'm focusing on various areas. Like training load is one of my main areas, historically, basically. And I'm teaching sport epidemiology and all this kind of stuff, all boring things. No, I was going to say, do you ever get, you know, if somebody sees you and they recognize you or whatever, maybe from your introduction, they say, oh, you're the training load guy. You're like, you know, I also am interested in other things. Does that ever happen to you? Yeah, that's actually, it happens a lot. Yeah, I started my career writing papers on training load and also recently to try to clarify some concepts about training load. Yeah, I'm more popular for training load. But recently, I had some back and forth with some researchers in journal for the so-called acute chronic workload ratio, which is a ratio that is supposed to help preventing injuries and our re-analysis of hamstring, Nordic hamstring exercises. I'm approaching the area more from a meta-research perspective, which meta-research is basically the study of research methods. And the main reason is just because we want to give information to coaches that are helpful. And I don't want to be the one creating too much confusion. So sometimes I have questions, at least the way some results are communicated to coaches and that can create more problem than solutions, let's say. Yeah, I like that. It also makes science communication something we try to do here at Barbell Medicine a lot easier when there is no need to hire a specialist to interpret the paper because it's written in such a way, or the methodology is done in such a way where you're like, I feel like I need to have a PhD in this specific thing to understand what was done here. I want to know what you found when you did the research, but I'm not smart enough. So it is helpful, I think, to have some steeping there. We start each one of these podcasts with our guests, with guest speakers, with two questions. I think they're interesting. We'll see how you take them. The first question is, what is your fitness mode of choice? If you were at your current exercise routine, I always want to know what people do for their own fitness just to see. I'm a strength training addicted. I have the gym here in my garage. I was training a lot basically every day for years. I changed a bit my habits after the COVID for some reasons because the volume of work became quite a lot. So I'm not training a lot now, but when I can, resistance training is my prefer form of training. I'm very traditional. And people told me, I do training every day. It's not correct, good, because you have to record. I said, I don't care. I mean, I just like it. I'm doing what I like. Yeah, yeah. And I'm the training load guy. If anyone knows if I'm doing too much and having too much training load, it's me. Yeah, I also come from Comba Sports, which is a very interesting area because the way you approach training load is, in my opinion, is completely different compared to other disciplines because you want to train a lot. You want to suffer. But this is not only related to the fitness improvements you can have, but it's also a psychological thing. So you want to feel strong. You want to not have regret before competing, which is the days before a competition at combat is where everything comes out. You start to think, yeah, maybe I didn't do enough or these kind of things. So from that perspective, sometimes pushing a bit the boundaries of training is useful, even if there are some risks. But on the other side, the risk is to go to compete, to fight without the confidence. So you need to balance a bit the two things. And that's why sometimes I'm a bit critical about some forms of training load management that don't consider these other aspects. Yeah, it's not just fitness. It's also like, do you feel like, well, I left. I didn't leave any stone unturned. I feel as prepared as I can possibly be. I did everything. And yeah, certainly different personality types would lead you to different management strategies there. That's interesting. We're going to talk about it. And then the second question before we dive in to start talking about training load is, what are you reading right now, or do you have a book recommendation for our audience? Mostly it's a mix of lay and professional folks, health and fitness professional folks. So if you had a book recommendation, I always like to ask our guests what they recommend. Well, I'm a bit biased here because I have two kinds of literature that normally I read. One is about research methods and specifically epidemiology. And the reason is simple. That is simple. That because there are not a lot of areas in which you can find books or literature specific on methods of research. And epidemiology is one of these. Some people in sports science criticize me a bit because I rely too much on epidemiology. But in the end of the day, when you want to measure the relation between the exposure and the disease, if the exposure is training and instead of the disease, I have performance or injuries or whatever, it is exactly the same. So I find that kind of literature very useful. And I normally suggest this literature to everyone who wants to know more about research. So modern epidemiology of Greenland-Rothman is a large, big names in epidemiology. It's something I recommend. And I have another bias, which is I read the books of Verne Gambetta. I know him. I really value Verne as a professional. It doesn't mean that I necessarily agree with everything. It does, it says. But when I hear in Sydney, we often meet. I have a very nice conversation. And besides, I don't know if we have time to go into this. But I like to surround myself with people that challenge me intellectually. I don't like to have people that just tell me how good I am. Because at some point, you may think it to be much better what you really are. So I think it's important to have this kind of, you know. So I like a lot how Verne writes things and the pragmatic approach. So yeah. Well, I will then, I'm just going to throw my script away then. It was very complimentary. And now we're just going to be antagonistic and just see what I'm just kidding, see how this goes. So let's start with the first of today's topic. It's going to be training load. And for a long time, the term training load has been used to characterize the amount and the nature of, in this case, exercise, or potentially sports practice or sports competition, that an individual performs. However, your work further refined that understanding to kind of come up with two subcategories, external and internal training loads. The first time I ever saw that in the research. Now for listeners who may not be familiar with these terms, how do you define external and internal training loads? Yeah. We came out with this classification 20 years ago just for full transparency. It's not something I invented. It was a classification that was used in the coaching world in some niche areas of coaching world. And I just transformed this in something that could be communicated from a scientific perspective. And when I read the first time, I found it quite reasonable. I'm a huge fan of logic. So I found it very logical. And so basically, when you train someone, you use something. And something can be a barber, can be sprinting, or whatever, in order to obtain an internal response. So this is why you use these forms of these training strategies. The point is that how people adapt to these training stimuli is based on the internal response, how your body is reacting to that load. So we can lift 100 kilograms both, but this can have different effect, because for me, maybe too much for you can be just the warm-up. So in the end of the day, the reason why we manipulate these exercises that I define external load is to induce an internal physiological response. That's why we call internal load. So external is something you administer from outside, like a training plan. When you write down a training plan, you have to write down something. And the internal load is the internal response. Yeah, that's a great description. And when we do our programming lectures, we use these terms. And to your point, when people first hear of these, they have that sort of logical understanding, like, oh, this seems, to use your word, reasonable. And yeah, you can spend some time trying to pick it apart. And one of the first, maybe, barriers to it for someone adopting that terminology or even considering it useful is like, OK, well, great. Well, how are we going to measure the external load? And how are we going to measure the internal load? So when it comes to external load, if we think this is like the nuts and bolts of a training program, are we just talking about things like intensity, volume, stuff like that? Or are there other ways that you have found to measure external load that you feel like have a maybe either greater transference to the outcome of interest? Or otherwise, you feel like they're more important? Yeah, that's actually not an easy question, answer. Also, the answer is quite complicated, but I try to keep it simple. So first of all, I normally start with a simple concept. The monitoring training load makes sense if you start with a training plan. There's no such a thing like monitoring something just for monitoring. So normally, what I try to explain is that what to measure and how to monitor depends on your training plan. So if you decide to use some training strategies, I suppose you have an idea. You have an idea about the progression. You want to follow all these kind of things. So what you should follow and monitor is if what you have planned is actually happening. So if you are actually doing what you were supposed to do, this is the first point of monitoring, which means there's no such a thing like the best metric, the best measure for training load. If you, for example, if you have decided in your training to introduce 10 sprints for some reasons, what you want to know if they have completed these 10 sprints and the intensity of these sprints because you have in your mind an idea. So the idea is to reach some high speeds so that this can have a neuromastoral effect, all these kind of things. So I decide what to measure based on my program. And the common question of people is, what's the best metric? It does not best metric because it depends on, if you have designed your resistance training based on time under tension, you will probably monitor the time under tension because that's what was your goal. So it's really everything starts from the plan and from the coach. It doesn't start from, let's say, the sports science department. The sports science department give you the instruments to monitor what you really care and the variables that you have used to design your program. I hope I answered your question. No, you did. It actually leads me to kind of my second thought in another like aha moment, although this one happened more recently. Probably, I imagine this is similar to you when you first kind of came across this subgroup who was using the term external and internal load and you were like, I dig that. I like that. You had mentioned this phrase mediating mechanism, the idea that if you're trying to come up with a training measure, it should, it's most useful if it captures the mediating mechanism where mediating mechanism refers to what's causing the potential change and in this case like a fitness adaptation or performance change. So for strength training, if we were trying to come up with a mediating mechanism, you could come up with a worse metric than like a number of hard sets or average intensity. I mean, you could come, we could argue about which one's most useful, which one correlates best, but there are specific values that you would want to track based on your predicted mediating mechanism, which may or may not be correct. Yeah, that's actually, yeah, that's a very important point. The problem is that most of the time you can't measure these mediating mechanisms and what you do, yeah, because let's say you're, when you're using a barbell, you want to induce some neuromuscular, specific neuromuscular stimulus, but you can't measure the neuromuscular stimulus. That's why sometimes you measure external load not because you don't want to measure internal load because you can't do that because you don't have any, you cannot place electrodes to measure the electrical activity of the muscle, these kinds of things. That's not something you can do on a routine base. So normally what you do, you use a measure of external load as a proxy of these internal responses. So the problem is that the proxies may be not that accurate. Yeah, but it's also true that in real world that we don't have all these instruments at the moment. So for example, now people are using velocity-based training a lot. And so the idea behind is to provide very specific neuromuscular stimulus. And so they are using velocity as a proxy of a mediator. The leadership that you can read is to understand whether velocity is actually good proxy of this mediator. And this is how you should read the literature, not just jumping here and there because also because there's too much literature around. Unfortunately, most is not really reliable, but it's plenty. So you needed to have a sort of roadmap when you want to enter in this area of evidence-based practice. So there's no, I can't answer telling you what's the best matrix because you can also use just the proportion of maximum RM and the assumption is that if I'm working 90%, this is correspond to neuromuscular stimulus that is higher enough to achieve what I want to achieve. And so in that case, it's okay. I don't complain now with the new wearables or all these technologies when you are using these raw majors, it seems you are not doing your job. Now you are perfectly doing your job. It may be even more appropriate than other majors. So it's more, again, why you are doing something. So think about why you are writing in your piece of paper on your computer that specific program. So if you have a tree set for something, why are you doing that? Because there should be a reason. So, yeah. Well, this is actually how I start to, I realize my biases. So one day I was writing a training program for some mattress and I used a lot of deadlifts. And if you ask me at that time, I could tell you a lot of reasons why these deadlifts were beneficial. But at some point I started to think, well, I always use deadlifts even before starting to understand science or these kind of things. So I was thinking, why I'm using deadlifts? And I realized that I simply like deadlifts. So I said, maybe this is why I'm using. But the point is that there are other reasons why I'm using deadlifts. But my point is that sometimes we do things because we are used to do that. And we try to create, to generate an hypothesis of why we're doing that more as a reaction cognitive dissonance. So over time I just embrace my biases. So I know that I'm doing, as I told you, I'm using a lot of resistance training, even in contests where people were not used to do that and there was criticizes, I don't care. I think it's important, I grow up this way and I'm just doing that. I didn't try to say, this is evidence-based. I said, no, that's my experience. And I don't see evidence that convinced me to change what I have done until now based on my experience. That's how I use literature and research. Yeah, I would like to draw attention to listeners at home that that is probably the best way to wrestle with our own biases. We all have our own biases, for sure, but also wanting to abide by evidence-based practices. You can choose to do something that has minimal evidence to support picking that particular thing. And instead of backfilling, reverse engineering a reason to try to make yourself feel good and warm and fuzzy, you can say, I just like it, but I haven't also been convinced that it's the wrong choice based on the existing evidence and that's totally reasonable. For example, if somebody instead of deadlifts was like, well, I prefer Romanian deadlifts, a specific variation. You'd be like, fine, not, only because you didn't arrive at deadlifts by eliminating all of these other choices based on some canon of evidence that exists because it doesn't, it's more, you're just like, I like deadlifting from the floor. You want a deadlift from the top? That's fine, like whatever, it's all the same. Yeah, again, I think sometimes people miss a bit the point of training, especially now with this fixation for evidence-based practice. And I'm saying fixation because it's wrong, it's because it's abused this term and this idea of using evidence-based methods. It's very complicated to use evidence-based methods. Most of the time people don't even know well what is evidence-based practice. The thing is just because there is an upset on PubMed and so on. It was a PubMed, yeah. Yeah, and that's actually not how it works. I would say now it's even more complicated than in the past. But the point is that we need to be realistic, pragmatic when we do things and we need to approach coaching from a bigger perspective. And I find very disappointing, especially from some coaches that they always insist about holistic view. Now there is also this nice term, dynamic system, complex system, all these kinds of things. And on the other side, they tend to simplify too much and they don't see the big picture. Because I tell you why I think that lifting is good, especially when I start to work in sports where the athletes don't have a lot of experience in resistance training and they know very well. With that lift, you can increase the load relatively soon. So you can lift more than 100 kilograms in a relatively short time. And imagine someone that has no experience with weights so they don't know that 100 kilograms is not a lot. Yeah, right, yeah. But when they see this 100 kilograms and they start to lift this 100 kilograms, they feel they start to feel strong, more confident and these kinds of things. So that lift for me is more a way to give athletes some confidence, more than training their back. And once they start to approach resistance training, they see the loads is more than one kilograms. They are more engaged in this new field. They see the new form of training, especially if they are not used. So I see these training strategies from another perspective, not simply just because I'm training a specific muscle, but it is more as a strategy to reach something as that is not purely physical. Yeah, hard to make that tangible also. You're like, oh, you're more confident now. How do we measure that? There's some questionnaires obviously, but yeah, it's interesting perspective. With the external training load that you're measuring is by some sort of variable that you feel like is likely to contribute to the adaptation of interest or adaptations of interest. How would you go about measuring internal training load? My familiarity with measuring internal training load, since it's really hard to get inside the body and like measure the specific thing, you use proxies, something like RPE, session RPE, heart rate. It all is telling you basically how the body is experiencing whatever the external training load is and allows you to kind of rate well, is it harder or easier, more or less stressful? Does that seem accurate to you or do you feel like I'm oversimplifying? No, it's not an oversimplification. It is the only thing we can do basically. So sometimes you measure perception because it's easy to do. You don't have other instruments and is a proxy of intensity basically. People told me, yeah, but RPE also include other components like psychological components and so on. Yeah, that's true, but do you have something else, something working better that excludes the psychological component besides the psychological components influence a lot of other measures or also external. So if you measure one RM one day, you are for some reason very well motivated. Maybe you are even a bit hungry that day for some reason you can push harder and another day you push less. So there's no measure that is not influenced. Especially in sport where is all performance based and performance is very influenced by motivation. There's always some sort of other influences. The important is to understand and knowledge the limitations of the measure that you're using. So if you're using RPE, you know that this can be influenced by other factors, but the same is heart rate, the same is even if you use the EMG, this can be impressive simply by where you are placing the electrodes. So there's no, there's not such a measure like perfect or gold standard measure. There are a lot of measures. So the way I think people may interpret train load monitoring is like having pieces of information that in isolation, they don't tell you a lot but when they combine, they can give you a better picture of the situation. So you may want to use RPE, heart rate, you use external load. You combine all this information and you try to see if there is a trend in some direction. And I use often the term trend because trends are what we are observing. When you measure something specifically in that session with that other, it's just a picture of that moment. And so let's say that the perception is higher, it may be because the other is tired because the day before they did something, they didn't sleep well, the day after the same exercise can induce a slightly different kind of response. And that's why I'm saying internal response is actually important because in the end of the day is the internal response that determine how you are improving or the adaptations or all these kinds of things. So the way and we wrote that several times, you understand how to monitor others is by measuring all these responses. So you measure the stimulus, you try to measure the response, heart rate variability normally is a response. So you measure after the training to see how you respond. And the assumption is that the magnitude of the responses in some ways related to the magnitude of the stimulus. So, and you try to balance this. And this is a way to understand the training tolerance of the athletes. And normally as a Todia McHoch, so I used to train people at the limits. If you have to go to an Olympic Games, you don't want to go there as a tourist. You go there to compete and have some chance of either winning or having a good placement. So, and the only way to do that is to push the athletes. You cannot, I cannot cut half the volume of training because I reduce the injury risk or this kind of thing. Yeah, that's true. But there is actually a simple reason why you reduce the risk because you are training less. So, yeah, the time at risk is lower. But this also means compromising the possibility to excel in the performance. So that's,  norma, and this is why you try to understand the tolerance and to work closer to the tolerance in at least in high performance sport. Yeah, yeah, effectively you're trying to get people to be able to, especially athletes at that level, to effectively maximize as much training as they can do without blowing themselves up, in this case an injury or otherwise like losing motivation over training syndrome, perhaps something like that. But generally speaking, the more you can train and tolerate that, that's a hedge that the more fitness adaptations in the higher your performance is likely to be later on. And so, yeah, to your point, you and I together, we could mesh our brains together and come up with a training program that has zero injury risk. You just wouldn't train at all. You just wouldn't do anything. It wouldn't be very effective. But no injury. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that was one of the bigger discussion I had when all this mass of training, loading injuries started 10 years ago. Because for example, people are scared about fatigue and say, well, but you know that when you train someone, you actually want to do some fatigue. Otherwise, you can't train. So the fact that an athlete is perceiving fatigue for me is not a problem. The problem is that the fatigue is higher than what I expect or what the athlete is expecting. That's because this means that I don't have control on the process. But the kind of narrative we have created as poor scientists is that people should be scared about training, about fatigue. I mean, there is a risk when you train. There is a nice study about training loading injuries in hockey players. It was the only study that I consider well done out of 100. This was done by a Yanshriar group in Canada. So basically, they use a metocol time target trial emulation. So they try to emulate the target trial with observational data. And what they have done is interesting because they didn't only examine the increase in the risk, increasing the participation in sport. But they also compare this increase with the increase that you would expect just because you are training more. So in other words, if you are sprinting 10 times, you have half of the reason sprinting 20 times because you are exposed. Exposure. Yeah. And this is what people, where people got tricked by the fact that they didn't realize that the training is both the stimulus, but it's also the time at risk. So the more you train, the more you are exposed at risk. But still you need to train. What they have shown is that the more you train, the more you increase the risk of injury, which is actually what we would expect. But the increase is lower than what you would expect by just increasing the time at risk. Like a periodontal. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's actually there is a protective effect. So the more you train, the less injury prone you are. Of course, since you are training more, the risk is increasing because you are just doing more, but there is a protective effect of training itself for injury. And how much you have to train someone, it's in relation to the performance is a risk benefit analysis. That's it. Before an Olympic game, you can risk much more because the benefit may be higher than during the season, for example. So yeah. Yeah. I think people don't appreciate that because they are like, well, look, if you increase training load too rapidly, for example, for an individual to tolerate it, well, injury risk goes up a lot. That's the assumption, right? But there is little caveatting around that where it's like, yeah, but their performance could also go up a bunch too. And it's probably not the potential for benefit. It's probably not proportional to the potential for injury. In fact, in this case, you would assume that the potential for benefit is actually higher than the potential for injury. And you're like, it's an optimization problem. We're walking this tightrope and trying to figure out, should we push or not? Yeah. Absolutely. And that's why you monitor training because normally, I hope people, coaches, have a plan in their mind. So you want to just see if the plan is going as it was supposed to go. So this is why you monitor. I don't think you can discuss monitoring without discussing also the training program. This is where I... Yeah. But this is where I find myself a bit uncomfortable when also I have these kind of interviews, people asking what kind of matrix. Yeah, I don't know. What's your training based on the training? We can discuss what can be the best. But it's not only what is the training, what is the goal of your training? You are jumping. Why are you doing power cleans? I suppose there is a reason. So based on the reasons why you are doing that, we can decide what to monitor. But everything is around the coach. It's not around the sports science department. And this is actually a bit my personal and different perspective than other colleagues. Yeah. Well, especially if they are in the sports science department, they are like, hey, what are you talking about? Frank, come on. Why are you cutting us out? And you are like, well, this is not where the decisions are necessarily made. I gave a presentation at the European power lifting conference in 2019 talking about injury risk in power lifting, right? In some ways to maybe reduce that. What's the lay of the land? What is the average injury risk per thousand participation hours? It's about two to four, depending on the population that you look at, which is compared to other things, pretty low. And then so how would you manipulate this? How could you make it more risky versus less risky? And then how does it interplay with performance? And at the time, one of the metrics that had been put forth to track is this acute to chronic workload, which is probably more geared towards either team sports, endurance sports, or whatever, just because the time component is so pertinent to the mediated mechanism. And that endurance sports, that's your volume. Basically in team sports, it's your exposure. Not too useful for resistance training, tracking, because you could be in the gym for three hours and only have done 15 sets, whereas that could also have been done in an hour, right? So it's not perfect there. So I'm wondering if you were trying to come up with some sort of variable to monitor with respect to injury risk in resistance training. Do you have any ideas about how you would go about monitoring that? And if you just want to throw your hands up and say, I don't know, that's totally fine too. I'm just more curious. No. I mean, I don't know, but because there's no literature that can help us understanding that. I mean, I know I'm saying that and most colleagues would probably disagree, but I can defend my position everywhere in front of everyone because show me a good study explaining what matrix we can use to monitor or to control for the injury risk. And I can show you why these studies are not good enough to understand how to do that. I'm not saying that we don't have to try is a different. Yeah, right. Yeah. I think that this idea that there are some scientific meters to control for the training load in order to limit the risk of injuries is not true. It's simply not true is a wishful thinking, but it's not true. There's not such a metric. There are things that we do. And if you think about it, the reason, one of the reasons why the acute chronic ratio became popular is because the message is actually a message that is familiar to coaches. Like you have to avoid spikes. You have to follow progression. The first time I start to read about these reasons, well, but this is actually the normal training methodology. I don't see anything different than people start to say, yeah, but now we have the proofs and say, no, that's not the proof. And we publish the reasons why this ratio doesn't provide the proof. But in the end of the day, the reason why people accept some metrics is because they fit with our idea of a good training. I recently posted a study. One of the biggest study, there are more than 5,000 runners. And they also use the acute chronic ratio. The study is properly done because they also use a causal interest approach to understand the causal relation. Long story short, their study, which is unquestionably one of the best done until now, show the opposite trend. So the higher this ratio, the lower the injury risk. And of course, no one advertised this study because it goes against what we normally think. Because based on the study, the faster and the more you increase, the lower is the injury risk. That noise and that doesn't make any sense. But the meters are much stronger than the other studies showing that the spikes are dangerous. So people just pick the results that fit their idea. So my point was, okay, if you're just selecting the studies that fit your idea, we don't need the study. Just go on and do what you think is good. And that's it. Because if out of one of the studies, you pick the 30 that support your idea and you are ignoring the other 70, what's even the point of running all these studies? Just do it. Just do what you want. And I would be comfortable to follow. And this is what I do sometimes. I prefer to follow these experience-based approaches than strategies based on weak evidence. Yeah. Yeah, no, that's a good point. Yeah, if you're just going to do whatever you want to do anyway, you don't need literature to support that. Yeah. Just like, you know, just do it and don't tell anyone like whatever. You don't have to explain yourself. One of the metrics we've been trying to, we're collecting data on. So we have an app with tens of thousands of people that log their training in it and have been coming up with this. It's like a training impulse score. It effectively takes the average intensity, how many reps you did, the proximity to failure of that set using RPE with the reps and reserve anchor. And then was it a compound exercise or an isolation exercise? Because I think those two things affect people differently. And was it on a machine or was it free-standing? I don't know why I believe that compound, you know, free-standing exercise in parts say slightly different sort of stress to somebody than an isolation one done on a machine, but that's my belief system. I'm open to being wrong. Anyway, and so I'm trying to figure out, does that, is that a good proxy for like training load in so far as it would mediate the injury risk and then also people's sort of arc for strength in this case. The arc towards strength, it's pretty good. Like I'm seeing some pretty good correlation there. I like that we haven't obviously tracked injuries in this prospective way just yet, but that's where I'm trending. But I'd be happy to not only get your thoughts on that, but also for somebody to prove me wrong and say, actually, that's all bullshit. You don't need to measure all of that stuff. Just measure this other thing. You know, maybe it'd be something more or more simpler like, hey, do you feel like you're at injuries coming on? You know, the person could predict that ahead of a session. You just ask them, for example, I'd be happy if that were the case because then, hey, look, I don't have to track all this stuff. I just have to ask you before every training session, hey, how are you feeling? And then I can just use that, you know? Yeah. Well, this is actually, this is the reason why I started to use RP because in the end of the day, I was thinking, okay, when you train someone as a coach and you are on the field, you try to understand how they are responding to the training that they are fine. You speak with the others, say, how do you feel today? And if someone is telling you, today, I don't feel well, I'm not concentrated, you normally adjust the training based on this feedback. So I start to say, okay, but if we actually use this kind of feedback from the others, why don't we try to quantify a bit this kind of information so that I can use tomorrow to monitor the training. So that's why I found perception important. And when people told me, yeah, but this is influenced by psychological aspects, yeah, that's actually why I think it's important because I want to know. Yeah, it's a feature, not a bug. Yeah, yeah, yeah. For me, it's more dangerous that you complete some exercises when you are in a bad day, you are not very concentrated, these kind of things because you can, you know, that technique can be, you don't focus on the technique and this can create problems. So these are the kind of information that I think are important. So coming back to your initial question, I think that measuring all these things may be useful to understand why something happened. You can't predict what is going to happen, but if something happened, you can try to understand why, for example, I had this injury or why the performer was so bad. And if you have different information, for example, you have these objective measures, but you also have some perception, and maybe the others told you something and you ignore or you didn't focus for some reason on these kind of feedback. So you go back and you try to understand why something happened in order to, in the future, to avoid what you may think were mistakes, but predicting something happening in the future is the most difficult thing you can do. Even with this machine learning, all these kinds of methods that we now have, most of the time the worker, you create the model based on what happened in the past. And what is going to happen in the future is something you have to test. This is called external validation, is commonly used in clinical setting where you have a prognostic model and you want to validate in a new population or even in your population, but in the future. That's an important part because it's much easier to fit a model with all data. It's much more difficult to use that model to predict what is going to happen in the future, which is what most people in reality want. But so this is the reason why I think monitoring all this information can be useful. In addition, it's also to understand how athletes are coping with the training, so with the stress you have planned. That's the key is always to try to understand how they are tolerating the training. And to do that, you don't need only to measure the training load, you need also to have some measure of responses. Can be measure of fatigue or even perception or how to rate variability. It doesn't matter what you're using, but you want to understand with that specific training load what is the response and how is this response moving, is moving in the direction I want. So there may be a period in which you decide to intensify the training and you know that two or three weeks of intensified training will induce fatigue. So if you start to see an increase in fatigue, that's not the problem in my opinion because that's actually what I wanted to do with my training. But if, for example, after a while I lower the training load and I see that fatigue is not going down, this can be a sign that something is going wrong. And so I can, this can open the, the two additional investigations asking the others. Maybe sometimes you can also do some medical screening. This happened when I was working with cyclists, they were not responding well. It happened that sometimes we realized they had viral infections and these kind of things. So you see a deviation from what you plan. And this is, I think, the only reasonable thing that you can do now with all these measures. I'm not saying that in the future maybe we can develop something stronger at the moment. I don't see this happening even if there are a lot of whereabouts now. So there are a lot of information coming. But moving from this information, from this data to real information, this is another beast. Yeah. Yeah, ideally you would have some objective stuff, right, these metrics. And you'd have also some subjective feedback. Again, like, how are you feeling? Do you have heart rate variability? You know, which is something, an objective number, but somebody could report that. Are you sore? Do you feel like you have, you know, you have pain, stuff like that. And yeah, blending those together and seeing, like, well, is this the predicted response based on the change in the training? Or is it, oh, this is far different than I expected. Wonder why. And then you got a deep dig deeper. But I don't know yet how this is all going to pan out. And if somebody else did, I wouldn't have to do this work. So we'll see what happens. With the whereables, that actually brings up a question I had for you. So many studies are using statistical associations between training load and injury risk. But inferring causality, as you'd mentioned, is it's challenging to be charitable, if not inappropriate just based on the methodology that's being used. So what's your take, you know, on a listener who's, they got a fitness tracker and they get some sort of training load score, whether it's strain, for example, or some other proprietary number. Is that useful information? And should they be asking themselves or their coaches to make sure that, like, they're in a particular range? Like, how do you view all that stuff? Is it just noise or just kind of like interesting information you could potentially draw a trend from? I don't know. How do you view that? I have to be careful how I answer to this question. We have our legal team on retainer. We're good. Don't worry about it. It's fine. Yeah. No, I mean, there's, of course, there is their commercial interest behind some metrics. So it's not necessarily they can have these metrics can be solid in terms of science. And even when there are published papers, nowadays it's not enough to have something published somewhere, more or less you can publish everything nowadays. And so you need to be, and this is complicating the area a lot, people need to be good. Good enough to understand whether something they're reading or something that companies use to support their methods are actually solid from a scientific and robust enough from a scientific perspective, which is very, very complicated. And this is why I complain with some colleagues because the way we communicate now science is different than 20 years ago. 20 years ago science and the research was basically a niche area. Only researchers access this kind of information. And now this information are out there. Everyone can access, can read, and you know that in any area, they mention an article. Sometimes they mention articles on predatory journals that they don't even know is a predatory journal. So the responsibility of scientists nowadays is completely different. So when you write something, especially, for example, an abstract, we need to understand that people may just read the title and the answer. Sometimes just the title. So if you use a catchy title, but the title is misleading, this is problematic because you are popularizing a concept that may be wrong. Maybe in the discussion you wrote, okay, these are the limitations, but people don't read that. So this is a responsibility we have. And even if I understand that you can have more traction on social media with some titles or strong apps, most of the time the results are overinterpreted or oversold. So this is one of the problems. So these matrix that are created by companies, most of the time are instrument to be competitive on the market. So this can buy us, of course, everything they say about this matrix. So you can't rely on what the companies are telling you. It's like to ask to a chef if they cook well. Of course, they will tell you, yeah, I'm cooking well. So you can't rely on what they say. You have to use your intuition and your capacity to critically examine the information they are telling you. First of all, if it's too good, it's unlikely true because it's not that easy. This area is plenty of uncertainty. And the reason why some matrix or some measures got traction is because they give you what you want. And what you want is something that decreases your uncertainty because we cope very bad with uncertainty. And after a while, we create this world of the illusion of control, the illusion that we are controlling the process. No, you are not controlling the process. This is outside our reach. We can try to control the process, which is different than controlling the process. And training is plenty of external factors that can influence how things are going. So as a coach, you're controlling an aspect of the life of athletes, but they have a lot of other things going on around that you don't have. Sometimes you don't even know what is going, what they are doing when they are at home. In some things, sports professional athletes, for example, in football course are monitored during training, these kind of things. But they have a personal trainer at home. And no one actually is aware of what they are doing with this personal trainer. So the monitoring that you are conducting on the field and with the club doesn't consider an important aspect of the training, which is what these athletes are doing outside the facility. So there are all these things. And after you may want to develop a prediction model to understand if the injury is, but you don't have all the information. So there are majors that I don't want to cite them, but there are majors that, in my opinion, are an absolute bullshit that are very commonly used. And the reason why I'm saying this is because people focus on the numbers and most of the time they miss the meaning of the numbers. I give you again the example of the acute chronic load ratio. When they show me the IOC model with the sweet spot, all these kind of things, I was the first time I saw that model. I said, well, but based on this model, if they recover, they increase the injury risk. And this doesn't make any sense. And when I start to explain this to my colleagues and they say, oh, yeah, you're right. So what I want to say is that they were focused so much on these numbers, 0305, 1.2, that they miss the meaning of the number because I said 05 means that you are training half of the accumulated average previous four weeks volume or whatever you're using. So based on your recovery, so after a recovering week, you're telling me that this is dangerous because they increase the injury risk. But it doesn't make any sense. If they are tired, let's say, and they're fatigued, I give them a week of recovering with a low intensity and so on. You're telling me this is bad, this is risky. It doesn't make any sense. When I start to mention this, people start to realize there was something wrong in this model. And this is the other point I always make also with my students. Now people are saying, because you know a bit more of statistics, so you spot some errors. And no, actually, that's not absolutely not true. The statistical study was the last I did. But initially, my concerns were because just looking at the numbers and what the model was saying, there were things that didn't sound right. So I just used logic in my coaching experience. And that's why I was really disappointed with some coaches because I said, look, you have trained Olympic athletes and you didn't realize that these concepts are unreasonable, at least. They don't make sense. So this is just to say that you can't, even if you are not a scientist, but you have a critical mind, you can spot some inconsistencies in some of these matrix or in the justification. So using logic can be very helpful to spot that or to smell that there's something wrong. And this means that you have to pick those majors with some grain of salt and not rely on them too much. Yeah. I think as a coach, we want one of these models to be so true because it would make our jobs so much easier. Like we have this black box of like all your tools, right? This is how I organize training. And then you're trying to, there's some art in applying that to the individual. But only if it was more formulaic could you be like, I feel very confident that what I'm doing is likely to work. Again, predicting the future. It's super hard. But we're like, look, I got numbers. This model works. And it's like, yeah, actually at face value, you just look at it a little bit sideways and you're like, maybe this model has got some holes in it, not quite there at this holy grail of like, yeah, yeah, look, you put an X, you're going to get on Y. And that's how it goes. Unfortunately. Yeah. That's more complicated. Yeah. That's very complicated. And besides the nowadays with machine learning, artificial intelligence, LLM, all these kinds of things is becoming even more complicated. But there's no, I was speaking with a friend and he was using some methods. And look, they don't work. You're wasting your time. And they realized that it was too uncomfortable with these uncertainties. So at some point, we have a very good relationship. I was very direct and straight and said, look, this is the job. The coaching is plenty of uncertainty. If you cannot cope psychologically with that, maybe it's better you change job because you have only two options. One is accept the uncertainty and you live with that or you start to create the dogmas because dogmas are the only thing that can decrease your uncertainty and to make you more comfortable with the situation. So these are the two opposite. And of course, there's maybe some gray, but people tend to polarizing these two extreme people that accept the uncertainty and people that try to create their own war, the ideal world where they think they have this illusion of control. They have this control, but in reality, it's an illusion. Tell you what, there's a lot of money in that dogma stuff though. You know, like, oh, this is my proprietary method. I am certain it's concrete, it's binary and I'll sell it to you. Yeah, but they do their job. They have a company. So I don't blame them. I mean, they are trying to sell something. It's like when you go to buy a cloth, they tell you that this is the best style and whatever. They are doing their job. So it's our job. It's up to us to be strong enough and critical enough to understand what is reasonable, what is plausible, and what is acceptable. And in the end of the day, there's always a risk-benefit analysis.  and whatever you do, there is a risk and there is a potential benefit. You have to balance these two, and this is very arbitrary, because the same situation can be perceived in a different way. So there are risks that I'm willing to take, and maybe you don't, you don't want, and the other way around, there are other situations in which you think that the benefit may be much higher than the risk, but this depends on the context. So you were mentioned in PowerLift in this part, you have to train smart, absolutely, but you have to train a lot. You can't train, you can't cut the training half-term, because you read a study that is showing you that you decrease the risk of injuries over training these kinds of things. You can't do that. I mean, you don't work. It's not going to work. Yeah, it's not going to work. So it's not easy. Of course, it is absolutely not easy. And besides, it depends a lot on the talent that you have in front of you, because I train, I had the first marathon runners I trained, and they had zero experience. These runner one, the marathon. And I never thought I was a good trainer. I just thought, oh, it's so strong. It's so talented that even with my shitty training, I was able to. Because I had to look to my trainer. Yeah, that's so full. And especially recently, I had the look and say, wow, the talent of that guy was so big that overcame all my rubbish training. Oh, yeah. No, I had a real life run-in with something like this. I put out programs for free for over a decade now, right? So if you look back 15 years ago, maybe some of my first programs, it's not that they're bad. I don't know that there's a really bad program. Just maybe good and less good and maybe more effective, less effective. And obviously, it depends on the individual. But in any case, I've been training my ass off for a long time. And to your point earlier about being a powerlifter, yeah, you do have to train a lot. And now as a master's lifter, everyone's telling me, you got to train less. Come on, you're 40 now. You got to take it down a notch. And I'm like, look, I got all this training history behind me. If I train less, I'm going to get worse. I got to train more or figure out ways to keep getting stronger. In any case, what I'm doing now, I believe in my heart of hearts to at least be the best training I can possibly come up with. Otherwise, I wouldn't do it. This guy, same age, been training half the time I have on one of my programs from like 15 years ago, shows up at a meet, kicks my ass. And I'm like, how does this guy? He just must be physically, mentally gifted, far beyond the skills that I have to deal with my shitty training. Anyway, yeah. So it's kind of a silver thing. Yeah. That's the individual response is there. Besides, the other point is that people don't understand that research normally provides you the average response in the population. They don't provide you the individual responses. You don't know exactly how people may respond. And probably you are familiar with the idea of a responder and non-responder. That's very tough because normally what you do, what people do is you try a training with an athlete. For some reason, they don't respond well or you think they are not responding and you say, well, it doesn't work. That's maybe not the case because there is a lot of variability in the responses, even in the same individual. So normally what they say before giving up, give another try, because you never know that the second time it can work. And because the way you have to read the research is always in terms of average responses in the population. So if you have 10 athletes, on average, they may respond in that way, like in the study, but on average, you don't know who is responding more than the others. And you have just to try. And you try the only way to try to repeat the same training more than once to be confident that it may be a non-responder. Yeah. The analogy I use is like if you were coaching youth athletes, right, or you were like their guidance counselor, for example, and they were like, should I play basketball? And you're like, absolutely, you should try basketball. And they're like, should I play golf? Absolutely. You should try all of these things, right? But giving up on a training program or intervention after six weeks, eight weeks, 10 weeks because it didn't work for you, is like telling that little kid after a little brush with golf and they weren't very good at it to say, you know what, golf's not for you. And it's like, well, look, they could come back a few months later and maybe they're the next Tiger Woods, right? Or you know, was it Cameron Young or whoever? So yeah, the analogy holds up. I've got two questions left for you. So first one, this is like a dystopian future, all right? Little sci-fi, little sci-fi thing for you. In a perfect world, I suppose that we'd have known training load targets or target ranges for specific goals at sports and levels of advancement within that sport, for example. Are there any examples of that happening right now or maybe training load mandates in sport? The only thing I'm familiar with, and this is not really the same, but it's like in Moto GP, for example. There's a limit on how much time you can spend practicing during the season. They're like, look, you can spend this much money and you got this much time, this many training or practice sessions. Otherwise, the risk of them crashing their brains out and not showing up on grid gets too high. Is that sort of thing happening anywhere else in sport right now? Yeah. I mean, there are, yes, there are some federations that suggest, especially for academies, it's not mandatory. These are recommendations. There are some limits in the time they should be exposed, for example, to headings because now there is this problem of concussion. There are some rules, but these rules are more precautionary strategy, even if there's not a lot of solid evidence that above or below can be dangerous. I think it's reasonable sometimes to say, okay, we don't know exactly, but let's keep it under control in some ways. It's more the kind of approach that is used with these guidelines. But yeah, there are, especially for academies and SA4 junior athletes, there are some limitations. Whether these limitations are really useful or evidence-based, I don't think so, to be honest. So it's very likely that these limits may be good for some, maybe too low for others and too high for other athletes. But in general, it makes sense that if the dangers are not negligible, that you want to introduce some sort of control. But in the future, I mean, from a theoretical, let's, you were talking about the hypothetical future. Everything prediction, understanding, in theory is doable. In theory, but we don't have the instrument to do that, even with this machine learning, all these kind of things. At the moment, we don't have the instrument. One problem is to have the measures that allow us to make these predictions. By measure, I mean the measure of various factors that can influence the outcome of the process. Now, they are wearable. So maybe in the future, there will be some new wearables that allow to collect all this information in order to be elaborated. So in theory, this can be done, like prediction of injuries can be done. In practice, we are not there, but we are very, very far from there. It's like personalized medicine. That's a hot topic. But I know some very among the best statisticians in the world saying that it's an illusion. Not because it's not doable. It's because we don't have at the moment the resources to do that. Yes. Because it's a very, they require a lot of data, a lot of elaboration, running trials to understand the responses to be. So on paper, it's doable, but we cannot with the resources we have, we cannot do that. And I use this example because when they say, look, in medicine, they are trying to win that direction, they are struggling and they have billions behind in sport that we are in need. So we are so small. It seems to me unlikely that we can do what others feel with 1000 times that our resources couldn't, couldn't do, but they are really trying to go there. You know, there's a using genetic markers, all these kinds of things, but still is very, is very difficult. But I'm saying that because statisticians said it's possible, but we don't have the resources to do that at the moment. Yeah. So everything we said prediction predicting injury, understanding individual responses, all these kinds of things is doable in theory, but we don't have the resources to do that. And I don't think in the next 10 or 20 years we go, 20 years, I don't know, but in the next 10 years, I don't see this possible. I know these will disappoint people, especially companies, but as I told you, I'm happy to have an open conversation with anyone because in the end of the day, that's my opinion. But if you have a different opinion, and we are talking about science, we need also to show some some evidence. And I don't think there are. Yeah, I do think that all of these questions are theoretically answerable. But to your point, yeah, whether it's the technology limitation, resource limitation, both, or just, you know, we don't even know what to measure. Like there are multiple gaps in what we know right now that would limit that. But I'm just thinking like, all right, what is 20 years, 50 years, 100 years from now, you know, little Timmy wants to go out for football or whatever. You put him on a conveyor belt, they swab the inside of his cheek and, you know, do a pan scan of him. And they're like, this guy needs X for his training load, you know, based on what we know now. That would be cool. I think that would be cool. That would be cool. But there will be no coach anymore because you have to do that with an algorithm. You don't need anyone. And perhaps in this dystopian future, everybody ends up being the same level of good at their sport. Right. And then there is no, there are no winners and losers anymore. It's all draws. And then, yeah, then we're really in a pickle. But yeah, just the thought. Okay. This is the last question. And I know this is a recent paper. It doesn't directly have to do with measuring training load or maybe more practical example. The recent review, I think it's from last year, was on skill acquisition in sport. And for listeners who haven't read this paper, I put in the show notes, a good chunk of the papers were on golf as a golfer. I liked that. But the majority of studies were inexperienced athletes, inexperienced subjects, and there was only like short term follow up for most of them. So a little less excited about that. But limitations to the methodology and inclusion of the included subjects aside. How does the concept of training load intersect with or inform the process of like acquiring and mastering sports related skills? That's actually, there is a good friend of mine. His name is your transcend was an expert in skill acquisition. And it is also very critical about the area. I mean, he has a very critical approach that, you know, there are different theories about the volume of the practice that you need to master something with some thinking that the more you do the better and some thinking that's not necessarily true. I don't think I see both points. I see, I think there are sports in which practice is important. And the more you do the better, I have no doubts about that. Golf may be some of one of these to be honest. Super high skill, whatever. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And, but from monitoring perspective, we come back as before. We don't know how much is enough for each individual. So the only thing you can do is to monitor the practice based on what you, what is your philosophy of coaching or what you think is is useful. But from that, I'm very. I think quality is important, but I still think that quantity has an important role in any sport. Now people move towards doing less and better. But it depends less than what. If it's less than the same moderate volume of training, I don't think this is going to work. But less is better if the quality and it's good because if you are a high level after you are already training a lot. So in that situation, even increasing just a bit may be the thing that induce over training, over reaching or all these kind of things. So when you are at that level training a bit less and with better quality or optimizing what you're doing actually can make the difference. But at that level, but I think that that level are very few at least are at that level. Most of the athletes are even good at this are still in an in an area where quantity, quantity matters. It's not the same thing. It's like when we discuss about injury prevention, improving strength and different population. Yeah, improving. I'm sure it can be helpful for several reasons, but improving strength in someone that is already strong is different than improving strength in someone that is like saying weak. So yeah, first of all, it's much more difficult to improve strength in someone is already strong and secondly, effects may be different, at least in terms of magnitude. So when we generalize finding from the studies, we need also to think about the population. Besides, I'm not saying that you cannot apply studies in other population in your population, but the entity of the changes may be much different. So you can maybe have improvement that are negligible or you cannot even measure these improvement in some populations. So, but for in general, for from a skill acquisition perspective, I still think that the quantity is important also because the quality is a very weird concept. It's not easy to understand because quality movements means to have a standard. Why there may be a lot of individual differences depending on the individual characteristics. So it's much more difficult to understand the to have a reference standard for technique or whatever. Yeah, well, people say that all the time. They're like, well, look, your perfect practice makes perfect. And so, for example, in powerlifting, which is the we charitably call it a sport and I happen to participate in that activity. They're like, well, look, you got to have perfect squat form and technique. And I'm like, what is that? I mean, we're based on the sport. There are some constraints to the squat. For example, the bar has to be on your back. You have to get below parallel and you have to start from a locked out position, right? And then racket under your own, your own power. But there are many variations within that. And further, if you're saying, well, I'm not talking about that. I'm just saying in your training, you have to squat. What's perfect for you. And I'm like, well, what if I happen to get out of position on the platform? Isn't it nice to have some additional strategies to try to overcome the load? So I make the lit, you know, there's to your point. There's probably some benefit to like just getting exposed more and more often. So you have your practicing, right? But it doesn't have to be the rigid model of like only this way. Can you practice? I think that's. Well, that's that's actually a very good example because powerlifting, weightlifting. Is where I see a lot of a bit of a mess, meaning that. No, because I have very, actually very good friends who are coaches and those who are international athletes. And if you speak with them or you speak with other, say, coaches at lower level, these are the one at higher level are the one that are more aware about individual differences that they don't, they don't have the fixation with the perfect technique. So they allow for some, let's say, individual adjustments much more than the lower level coaches and athletes. And I agree with them, because at the end of the day, you may have an idea of technique, but this can be adjusted by the different individual that they tend to adapt to their characteristics. While when you speak with others, they, I mean, I have seen videos of world champions and posted on social media and tons of comments about the bad technique, all these things. I said, what the fuck? I mean, if this person won the world championship day they won, it's effective because they, by definition, so yeah, yeah, it can be better, but still is one of the best in the world. So eventually this technique is good for the performance because in the end of the day, what people don't understand is that power lifting, weight lifting is a performance based sport. So in the end of the day, what matters is how much load you lift. That's, that's so the more, the better. So any strategy that allow these athletes to lift more than others, allow them to win or to compete at the high level. So that's the, they are not evaluated based on the technique is not the gymnastics, you know, that with the referees say, oh, this is good. This is bad. In the end of the day, and this is why I like because it's very pragmatic sport. I mean, they, they have to lift as much as they can. And actually in theory, they can use, okay, within some constraint, other variations, any variations of techniques. So it's, it's okay, but this is the fixation with these, you know, small changes, the weight about the Chinese and the technique of the Chinese. Well, another point, and I don't want to take too much time, but something people don't understand is that elite sport, we are working with the survivors. So the survival bias is very important. And you find this problem a lot also in studies. When you compare elite athletes with other people, you, basically you're comparing orange with apples because they are a selection. So you don't know if they are using a technique that is good for them. You cannot generalize to other individuals because the one that you see at the top of the pyramid are the one that survived over the years. So it's possible that the technique they are using have destroyed thousands of other people and they are the only one that can cope with that specific technique that allow them to live more than others. So these kind of comparisons are very difficult to do. And I normally want people don't compare elite with others because elite are a very selected population. And it's very likely that they are the survivor or also bad techniques. Hey, yeah, present company included. Well, because people, they do ask, they're like, hey, look, should I just do your program? You want to just publish the program you're running? I'll buy it so I can run it. And I'm like, financial motivations aside, I'm not sure that what I'm doing is going to work for you. And then the reason why I've been able to persist so long in this sport and achieve some monocom of success is probably related to things that unique things that make me me. And if you don't have those same unique characteristics, I would just be setting you up for failure and I can't, I can't abide that. So yeah, it's like the other people that I've been competing with for these 15 years, we are far different than the people who started competing. They did it for two years and then burnt out. And so if I was creating my prototypical power lifter who's going to go be a world beater and persist at the top of sport for years, yep, they'd respond awesome to resistance training. They gain a lot of muscle mass and a lot of strength. Yep, they'd have a really robust musculoskeletal system to start with. Thick joints, everything else. And they'd have a great work ethic and they'd also be super resistant to injury because like you need all of those things to survive. And it's like the strongest potential powers, whatever, you know, it's got to be some mix of that, but there's somebody who maybe is potentially their max volitional isometric contract of force is higher, but they can't sustain the training. And so they can't ever, you know, sustain this, that, that and be at the top of sport. But yeah, I, I completely agree, but training a lot more and you all these kinds of things should be seen from this perspective. So in the context of uncertainty, individual responses, all these kinds of things. So the only thing you can do is to monitor training just to understand whether your program is going in the direction that you plan. And that's why what you measure depends on your training program. There's not such a gold measure. It's up to you and people don't accept that. They want to measure and every time they ask me what, what do I use? I don't know what you can use. I mean, there are tons of majors. Some are good. Some are maybe not that good, but it really depends. If you have designed your training based on time, you may, you measure time. If we, because there are two different kinds of discussions. One is about how we monitor training and the other is how we plan a training. So if I agree with the training, because when I work with the, with teams and sometimes they, I provide what I think is better to monitor what they are doing. It doesn't mean that I agree with what they are doing. I'm just saying, OK, if you want to do that, it's your job, you are paid for that. You are fired if you fail. So my job is to help you in doing what you want to do without questioning anything. If you ask me an opinion, I can provide my opinion, what I would do or why I don't agree. But in the end of the day, it's the, is a coach decision. So to summarize, I trust coaches and I work around coaches. They are the one training athletes. And if, as a sports scientist, I need to help you. The level of help depends on what kind of help you want from me. If it's just monitoring or you want to discuss about the strategy, you may say, I'm doing this because of these reasons. I can say, OK, these reasons make sense. These are actually not really supported by evidence. So maybe it works, but not for that reason, for example. And besides, I much prefer a very elaborated and solid reasoning than the use of weak evidence. So that's always where I separate from a practical perspective, the people I trust and the people I don't trust in terms of coaching. I was going to ask you, what's the one thing you want people to take away from this? And you just did it. You're a natural. Like if you don't have a podcast yet, maybe consider it. You know, just all the extra time that you have. I told you I'm a boomer for these things. And I have this atop because of the manipulation of my sons to buy them all the equipment. But yeah, I know that most of the time people don't have from me the answers they want. And I can't give the answer they want. I'm sorry. Yeah, I was hoping you were going to tell me how to get stronger. But turns out we just I know less now than I started. So yeah, I mean, you I can tell you have to train more. Yeah, I like that. I'm here for that. I'm here for that. As long as I get to live more and you survive, you may be stronger. That's never never spoken. I like that. Where can people find you? I know like I'm going to list there's a Google Scholar page with all of your publications. So I'll link that. Is there any way for people to interface with you on social media? Are you are you are a learner? Do you post? What do you do? I'm I'm I'm in social media. I'm on X. I'm on blue sky. I'm on social media. But in the last years, I move a bit away from social media. I read the posts. I work post. I don't interact as much as in the past because I'm quite. I am Italian. Sometimes I cannot control myself. So I decide to to move a bit away and and and and joke apart also because I found recently it was a bit too toxic as an environment. So I read just to have an idea what is happening, but I find more and more difficult to interact because I am very critical, but I like to have this kind of conversation to have an intellectual opponents. Most of my co-authors and my colleagues are intellectual opponents. But this kind of interaction is becoming more and more difficult and people get offended very easily. So just to say I'm on social media. I don't interact a lot, but I read comments and posts and these kind of things. Well, if you're out there and you're commenting on training load, just know that Dr. And pillow series is reading your stuff. He's kind of like Santa Claus. He sees you, you know, and you've been naughty. He's when you've been nice. Yeah, I'll link all of all of this stuff in the show notes. But really, thank you so much for joining us for having and for the invitation. Thank you very much.