 nviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia hysterectomy may be performed at the same time as a hysterectomy for certain reasons. If a woman's ovaries are not removed, there are no long-term hormonal consequences of undergoing a hysterectomy. An important caveat is that the ovaries have blood supply from two main blood vessels. A hysterectomy necessarily involves cutting through one of these blood vessels, the ones that exist between the uterus and the ovaries. This can sometimes lead to a temporary decline in ovarian hormones until normal blood flow is compensated through the primary ovarian blood supply. Most women do not experience persistent or perceivable symptoms when the ovaries are left in place. A small fraction do experience symptoms from these hormone fluctuations, although it tends to be temporary. The most common reasons I perform hysterectomies are for abnormal uterine bleeding, for uterine fibroids, and for pelvic pain. The next important consideration is how the hysterectomy will be performed. So this surgery can be performed through the vagina, where there are no incisions in the abdomen. It can be performed laparoscopically, which is done through three to five small incisions on the abdomen. Or it can be done through a single larger abdominal incision. Think like a c-section incision at the bikini line. There are several factors that are considered between the patient and her surgeon to determine which route is the best route for her. Regardless of the surgical route, though, all women who have undergone a total hysterectomy will have a five to eight centimeter internal incision at the top of the vagina, where the cervix used to sit. And that's closed with a dissolvable suture. Most patients who have undergone a hysterectomy can go home the same day as their surgery if it was uncomplicated. Now to the main focus of the question. What kind of activity restrictions should be observed after hysterectomy and for how long? It's important to note that every woman's pain and recovery experience can vary after a hysterectomy. Those with healing abdominal incisions may experience more discomfort in the two to three weeks following surgery. Regardless of the type of surgery they have, though, women who are given liberal or no activity restrictions do just as well, if not marginally better, than those who are given strict and specific restrictions. Evidence actually supports the approach of listening to your body by scaling and modulating your activity types and effort by your baseline abilities and also the pain and discomfort feedback you're feeling with consideration to whether or not you're requiring strong pain medications. So a great example is advising against taking a maximal effort squat, for example, because you've just taken 10 milligrams of oxycodone. One activity that bears mentioning where this doesn't apply, though, is vaginal penetrative intercourse or really any activity that involves insertion of a product or an object into the vagina. Just like you wouldn't subject yourself to blunt forces against a healing row of stitches anywhere else on your body, it's important to remember that concealed and healing incision at the top of the vagina, also known as the vaginal cuff. And its specified healing time should be respected, no matter how well you may be feeling. It's important to await a vaginal exam with a surgeon six to eight weeks after surgery to ensure proper closure and healing of the cuff before resuming intercourse. Unfortunately, there are no great data that guide the return to resistance training after hysterectomy. My recommendation is informed by the last decade practicing as a surgeon and also my experiences as a powerlifter who trained with RPE. I advise delaying return to moderate to high intensity resistance training until the vaginal cuff is cleared, although lower intensity activities such as walking, recumbent biking, and seated upper body exercises are often acceptable and encouraged in the early period after surgery. This is all in addition to activities of daily living. The post-operative judgment of the surgeon of when a woman can resume intercourse can be used to correspond with a return to progressively heavier training. Hope you found this helpful.