 Voilà, Voilà, Voilà, Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà Voilà couple questions. Are we here? All right, almost there. Next question. How to take the ego out of lifting at a lower fatigue level? I'll tell you this. I don't have an easy solution to this. The problem, and I don't even view it as ego. I think it's more of like a historical perspective on your performance and how that jives with your expectations of yourself on any given day. If you've got this long multi-year, in my case, you know, 10 plus year career of lifting weights, particularly at a high level, I know what I can squat for every rep range from one to 20. And anytime that's on the table, I'm like, well, I got to meet or beat my previous best and anything less than that is a failure. Same thing with bench press, deadlift, and other exercises I have all these previous exposures to. And so I don't know that that ever goes away, but I think understanding the effectiveness of things that aren't at a limit effort, limit exertion, helps me pick a better weight that is just as effective, but doesn't put me over the edge as far as fatigue goes. And in fact, I think the knowledge that if I can do a higher dose of those less fatiguing things is likely to put me ahead even, that has been super useful for my training. So now I am able to select lower weights. And instead of being like, well, I guess I just don't have it today. I'm like, well, this is just as effective as if I lifted 10 pounds more. It's not an all time PR, but it's just as effective. And I feel fine about it. My training sessions now are so much less stressful to me from like a mental standpoint. I would never have like squat anxiety, bench anxiety, deadlift anxiety, where I'd be worrying all day, but I would be perseverating about the number. I have to hit this today. If not, everything's off the rails. This is going poorly or whatever. And now when I go in the gym, it's a more fun experience. And I have loved training for such a long time that I look back at that period where I was like, it's got to be heavier. It's got to be more. I got to progress. I'm like, that must've been a dark cloud, you know, just very irritable, angry. How much caffeine do I need to take? How much Rick Ross do we need? You know, how much Olympic Randall Strauss and Iron Mind videos do we need to watch in the background of the garage to get hyped up for this? So yeah, I don't know that I would ever take your ego out. You just can't, right? It's just there. It's like always in the background. The point is, if you understand and agree that lifting at a relatively lighter weight, so lower intensity, greater or lower proximity to failure is just as effective as lifting a heavier weight and closer to failure, then why does it matter to you? And my whole thing, if you're not going to PR, then who cares? If a PR is on the table, take it. Yeah, send it, do the thing. But if it's not a PR, who cares? He matched an old PR? Nobody cares about that. He set a new PR at a higher rep range? No one cares about that. I'm serious, right? And to be fair, no one cares about your PRs, period. All right? And once you finally internalize that, he took my answer away. Once you finally internalize that, then you've reached Austin's final form. Yeah. But I think some of this is knowledge-related. And then also just accepting we're all humans and we have these desires to be better than we were before. I think that's fine. It's just going to happen over a longer period of time. That's okay. Yeah. I think that a lot of what you described about your experience matches exactly what my experience had been along the way. So I don't necessarily need to rehash that. There are some other things that you kind of learn through experience and can help to make this process easier. I mean, I think about all of you are going to experience setbacks. All of you already have experienced some form of setback in training and sometimes pretty major setbacks. I think about, you know, one of my recurring issues on and off over the years has related to certain kinds of elbow tendinopathy. And so I'll get my bench up to 400 and then something will get sensitive and pissed off and I have to back way off. Sometimes I've had to back off as light as the empty bar. And then I'll work back up and, oh, sweet, 420 went. Elbows pissed off shortly thereafter. To back sometimes all the way down to the empty bar and then work up again. Oh, sweet, 440. Okay. Damn it. Elbows hurt again. Back all the way. And so after multiple bouts of running through this kind of thing and coming back stronger than before every time, it helped me to eject this idea of like artificial time constraints that there are on training. This idea that you have to make your training progress efficiently, that you need to do it as fast as possible and anything else is wasting time. That's the kind of thing that makes people make stupid decisions in training among others. But that's a major driver is this idea that if I don't add weight as quickly as possible, for example, as is commonly recommended in the beginner phase of training, then it's wasting time. No, it's not because you can do it as fast as possible. At some point you're going to have an injury or experience pain or need to back off or something's going to happen in your life and stress you out or you're going to miss a couple sessions or your sleep's going to be bad. You're going to have no choice but to reduce the weight or something. And it's like, okay, well, if I did the math, how many sessions did I lose in this sort of thing? And then ultimately you come out ahead in the long run. This is a very, very, very long game. And so to the extent that I wasted time by having to back off 400 pounds on my bench training, as an example, and then still come back and exceed the prior level of performance. So why do I care so much about what's happening today on a particular day? Why am I putting so much emphasis on the performance today in the gym, in my garage, at home with nobody around? Nobody cares about this. Why do I care about this so much? Oh, I don't care about this. I'll just take what's there and it's fine. And then the more you do that, it kind of snowballs positive momentum of that was a win today instead of overshooting, failing, feeling bad afterwards, something like that. And that continues to snowball to where, like you were saying, now walking into a training session is easy. Walking out of a training session is easy. And I'm like, oh, I can do this training program as I did for two years straight, basically, to the same weekly program because I felt great all the time and numbers would fluctuate a bit. But in general, we're trending upwards and I had no issues. So I think it's something that you probably have to have the combination of the rational knowledge of us saying, okay, going from six to seven to eight to nine to 10 RPE has a pretty quickly plateauing effectiveness in terms of the stimulus it gives you while it has an exponential rise in the fatigue cost. And you will pay that cost whether you want it or whether you like it or not. So that like intellectual rational knowledge and combine that with the experience of, okay, when I buy into this and I stay a rep or two or three or four away from failure, I feel better. I can do more. I burn out less. I have to deload less frequently if ever, right? Not every three or four weeks or whatever the case is or resets or whatever you want to call them. And in general, things go better. So that's been my experience. Yeah. So I got this, now I'm on this bodybuilding tip, you know, trying to get thick and juicy for the winter because nobody else cares. Okay. I told the person who I had helped me program this that my default would be to add weight all the time to try to lift as much weight as possible because that's just who I am as a person. And he goes, and you don't want to do that? And I go, I just don't want to do the same thing that I always do, which is just end up reverting to, ah, just do a couple sets of five, four, three, two, one. Like let's max out. And he goes, well, what about like a rep range? What if instead of, all right, we're going to do a set of six at eight or two reps left in reserve. What if we do a range of six to 10? And the only way you can add weight is if through across all the sets, you hit 10, 10, 10 reps. And then next week you can add a little bit of weight. Yeah. Double progression. That's genius. Let's go. Yeah. So anyway, that's how I'm like saving myself from myself. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Voilà. Voilà.