 N acetyl acnmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsmapsm So we are going to follow a version of the beginner prescription that we have. It's on our app. We're going to do some squats. I don't know what squat he can do yet, so we'll kind of advance from maybe a box-type squat or squat to a bench to maybe a goblet squat to maybe a squat with a barbell. We'll see. We're going to do that for sets of four. Then we're going to do some bench press, and then we're going to do hip thrust. We're going to see him twice a week, twice a week for a couple weeks, and then we'll see how long we can keep him engaged here. But yeah, this is me training my dad. All right, so we've got to figure out if you can squat. We're going to squat to a bench. Now, I know it's been a while since you've actually squatted, so we'll kind of revisit some of the... The beginning. Yeah, your stance and kind of the mechanics here. So I'd like you to take about a shoulder-width stance with your heels. Probably a little wider than that for you. Cool. When your toes are angled out 15, 20 degrees, I'd actually go maybe a hair wider than that for you. Just a little bit. Cool. Okay. Now, I don't want you to move just yet, but we're going to initiate this movement with your hips and your knees at the same time. And so you have a bench behind you. You can spot that. What I'd like you to do is bend at both your hips and your knees and sit down to the bench. Yep. Cool. And now I'm going to have you put your hands like this on your chest. Uh-huh. And stand up. Good. And then go ahead and squat down again. Now, at the bottom, I'd like your elbows to the inside of your knees. Oh, okay. So that's how... Because we can't squat perfectly straight up and down, so let's get used to this. Go ahead and squat down. Good. And stand up. And again. And stand up. And let's just go a little bit slower. And all I want you to do is feel your whole foot flat on the floor while you do this. Good. And stand up. Great. So you passed the box squat test. Oh. Squatting to a bench or a box. Now, somebody who wasn't as strong as you or had other issues doing that, we might do a higher box, something like that. But you passed that test just fine. So now we're going to take the bench away. And I'm actually going to have you face the camera. So same stance. Good. And you're, yeah, about shoulder width apart. Toes are pointed out. Now, before you move, we're going to do this much slower on the way down, thinking about a three-second descent. So just watch me do this for a second. I'm going to squat down one-1000, two-1000, three-1000, get to the bottom. My elbow's inside my knees like this. I'm just going to hold for a second. Great. And then I'm going to stand up. So the reason we're doing this slow tempo is so that you can feel your balance flat across the floor. Okay. So here you go. One-1000. Two-1000. And just hold there for a second and stand up. I'm going to have you just widen your stance just a little bit. There you go. Okay. Same thing. And you're going to bend over a little more. Hold right there. Stand up. Good. And I'm going to have you look your eyes all the way at the baseboard right there. That's where you're going to look at. Okay. And squat down. Hold. Up. Good. Now we're going to have you look at the baseboard right there. Good. Now we're going to do that. I'm satisfied as a coach that you've done a good job. You're able to keep your balance. No more tempo. So we're just going to go down. Not as fast as you can, but no slow tempo. Same thing. All the way to the bottom. All the way to the bottom. All the way to the top. No pause. Again, we'll go a little deeper. Again, a little deeper. Good. So you've passed the test here. You've effectively, we don't need to regress anything from the actual squat pattern. We could probably squat with a barbell. So the biggest challenge now is going to be how do we rack the barbell. So we are going to try to put you under a barbell. I'm going to have you actually loop around here. So this is a standard barbell, 20 kilos, 45 pounds. We want this bar to be right around the middle of the sternum. Okay. We're not going to, we don't care about whether this is in a high bar position. That's the bar on top of the spine of the scapula or a low bar bar below the spine of the scapula. We just want to find a comfortable way for you to hold this on your back to see if doing a barbell back squat is something you can train right now. There are other options if not, but because you can squat so well, might as well try with the bar. See the score marks out here. Now you guys can't see this, but on a standard barbell, a power bar, they're 31 inches end to end. Some trash bars in other commercial gyms have marks all over the place. In any case, I want you to start with your index finger here and you're going to use a full grip, thumbs around grip. And we're going to try to place the bar up here. Now, if you guys at home, there's a big bony prominence back here. That's C7, cervical vertebra number seven. We don't want the bar on top of that. Just underneath that. Just go underneath it? Yes, sir. Okay. Go ahead and come back from underneath it. Okay. It's uncomfortable, eh? Yeah. Yeah. Let's actually raise this up one. And the only thing we're going to do now is instead of going all the way around with your hands, we're going to put your pinky under like that. I think. Yep. Yep. Cool. This one's right? Yep. Pinky under. Go ahead and bend at your knees and your hips. Okay. Move to your left. Okay. Okay. Move to your left. Okay. Okay. Okay. Move to your left. How's that? Better. Now, here's what I want you to do. Just do this. Yeah. And pick up the bar like you're trying to hold it on your back. Good. Okay. Take one step backwards with both feet. All right. Now, you are not going to squat until I tell you to squat. Okay. Eyes are going to be down here. Probably a little wider stance. A little wider with your stance. Okay. And I will tell you to squat each rep. Okay. We are still going to go slow on this. Okay. So a three second descent. Okay. Ready? Big breath. Squat. Two, one thousand, three, one thousand. Good. Up. Same tempo. We'll try to reach a little bit deeper. Squat. Up. Good. Squat. Up. Good. One more rep. Squat. Good. Up. Good. Up. Up. Rack. All the way into the upright. The only thing that really bothers me, you know, is the grip. No. It's the shoulders. Yeah, yeah. Well, holding the bar is what I'm saying. Holding the bar. How uncomfortable is it at scale of one to ten? I'd say like a five. Yeah. So if you're training your parents or you're watching this and you're like, yeah, that's a non-starter, there are other implements that we can use that actually you hold the bar in front of you. It's called a safety squat bar. So I'm going to give you one more shot with this barbell to see if you loosen up because you're still cold. I think that's all it is. Yeah. But there are other options. Yeah. So there's no, you don't get any extra points or a gold star for suffering. We're using what's called a talon grip, which just means the pinky. And sometimes we'll use even the fourth digit to go under the bar. And then the whole point is you're going to try to bear all of the weight here, none in your arms. So picking up the bar with your back, holding it on your back. And again, a bar should be right there. Okay. Same thing. We're going to do a set of four here. Move to your left. Hang on. Hang on. Put it down. Put it down. Move to your left. I'm just making sure you're centered here, Pops. There you go. Go ahead and pick it up. Okay. A little bit wider. There you go. Okay. Eyes are down. And we're going to slow descent, bending at the hips. There you go. Up. Good. See if we can go a little bit deeper, Pops. Yeah. Good. And squat. Up. Good. Go ahead and rack it. Scale of one to ten with your shoulders. Scale of one to ten with your shoulders as far as discomfort goes. Three. Yeah. So generally how I'm thinking about this is if it gets better, I'm fine with maintaining this. If it were to stay the same or get worse. And we'll see how it goes with weight. How do you like the music? I like it. It reminds me of when you were on the BMX bike when we were on the East Coast. Oh, yeah, yeah. You were up there and they were... That was more Beastie Boys than... Yeah, yeah, yeah. They had you rocking out. So we're going to add a little bit of weight. We're trying to work up to a single set of four repetitions that makes you feel like I could probably do two or three more reps. Oh, okay. So not maximal, but hard enough to make you aware. This first set of four, I'm still going to tell you to squat each rep so you don't get to squat until I tell you to. And all we're trying to do is do that same technique that you had before. All right. Second digit on the score mark. Pinky under... Oh, sorry. Sorry, you're third. Yes. Yeah, you can correct my anatomy. I feel like the pinky is literally just hanging. That's right. Yeah. Yeah, it just frees up some shoulder mobility here. Let me just make sure that you're centered here. Move to your left just a little bit. Yep. Okay. Cool. Good. Eyes are down here. Big breath. Squat. See if you can go a little deeper, dad. A little lower. Okay. Knees out at the bottom. You'll get a little deeper. Yeah, I like that. Fine. Good. One more like that. Reach all the way down. Up. Good. I want you to do one more as a penance rep. No pausing at the bottom. Good. Rack it. Perfect. How is that on the shoulders holding it? Good. Fine. And muscular effort wise for your legs. Easy? Yeah. Okay. The goal is to find something that feels heavy enough where you could only do two or three more reps. I got my watch going so I'm giving you two to three minutes of rest in between sets. Obviously it's not super taxing yet. Biggest feedback from the last set and what I want you to focus on here is not pausing at the bottom. Okay. We're just going to go down and up. You're right at parallel, maybe an inch above parallel. That's an aspirational goal. I'm totally satisfied with this range of motion right now. But you know, if I suspect in our next few sessions and as you get more accustomed to doing this, your depth is likely to improve. Are you ready to do this again? Set a fork. Move to your left. There you go. Good. Big breath and pick it up. Good. Eyes are down. And squat. Good. Knees out a little deeper. Good. One more. Pretty good. Yeah. Rack it. No, pretty good. Our biggest thing here is I need you to initiate. You're going to do this. Okay. Okay. Okay. The first thing here is I need you to initiate movement with the hips at the same time when you start. So at the start, knees and hips go at the same time rather than knees then hips. It's small. And again, for people at home, like this is not a huge concern for me. Participating is obviously more important than perfect form. We're going to get there though. All right, Leonard. I'm going to add some weight here. It's a nice facility. I like the facility. I like the equipment. I like the people for the most part. Yeah. I hate the music. Oh. That's how I know I'm getting older. What would you like to have? Silence. Oh, okay. Just something where it's not like, I feel like I can't hear myself think sometimes. Well, maybe you can. Yeah, maybe that's better. You guys at home might be also noticing Leonard has some sweet footwear and accoutrements on his knees. So those are knee sleeves. We have an article on knee sleeves on the website. They're not necessary. However, for people with either knee osteoarthritis, knee pain, and in this case knee replacements, they may feel better with a little bit of warmth and some support. But it's not really a mechanical support. It's more just compression. All right, let's do this for a set of four. Now, only focus, and I like doing this for coaching, one cue, hips and knees at the same time. I'm not going to tell you to squat each rep, so you're going to do a set of four at your own pace. Good. A little lower. Pretty good. Okay. Right. How'd that feel weight was? Pretty good. See, you guys notice that, oh yeah, that's much different than the first two sets, which were all, you know, you would say, oh, I could do as many reps as you can. I mean, I could do a whole lot more. I could do more sets. Uh-huh. So what I would like to do is get to a point where if that was easy, maybe the next jump is moderate. I want you to get a point where you're like, that was kind of challenging, but not maximal. So we'll add a little bit of weight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can't remember, first time. Yeah. So you're going to use this as an assistance, and I just want to see what your depth is actually like, independent of resistance. And so what I'll have you do is hold, take your squat stance, and use this as an assistance, and squat all the way down. I would use hold on to one. Yeah. And here's the thing, though, you can't lean back far enough where you would otherwise fall over. So this is just like helping you. Okay. So you want to just squat? Yep. Bend forward at the hip. So hips go back. Yep. And can you go lower than that? At this point, you want to. Okay. Great. So what I've identified in my dad is that that's probably as low as we can go right now. At this point. I suspect as knee flexion improves and as you get better at squatting, we can go a little bit lower. But the idea of harping on him, banging on him until you get an inch below parallel, kind of a waste of time. But the constraints that I'm giving you for your technique. I want a technique that's repeatable, that's efficient, and meets the points of performance. Those points of performance for this exercise for you right now is we have to get to parallel. And so, yeah, you could squat more weight for more reps with less range of motion, right? Yes. But I cannot rob Peter to pay Paul. You have to get to at least parallel. You have to maintain your balance. And we're doing it for sets of four. And the pad has to be perfectly flat. Ideally, yes. That is if you're doing it correctly, balance wise, mechanics wise, your feet should stay completely flat on the floor. That means your heels don't come up, you're too far forward. And your toes don't come up, you're too far backwards. So let's do this for a set of four. Again, at your own pace. And we're going to see every rep at at least parallel. Okay, eyes are down. Big breath for each rep. Good hips and knees, same time. Good. Now, no pause. Yeah, pretty good. One more. Good, right. Starting to get a little challenging? Yep. Yeah. So I think for today, that is probably sufficient. We don't need to, I've never explained to him what RPE is or any of that stuff. But I just want to get to a point where the bar speed slows down. To me, that represents a significant challenge for the rep scheme that we're doing. And given that you haven't been under a bar in the better part of a decade at least, I think that's sufficient for today. So we'll strip the bar down and move on to the bench press. How do you feel though? I feel good. It's just something I haven't done since the Cody Miller days. Yeah, yeah. Shout out to Cody. What's up, man? Cody. But yeah, you can squat. But if you couldn't have done the box squat, squat to the bench. And if you couldn't have done the body weight squat, then we would not have done this. We would have done the leg press. I guess the least thing I can do is strip the bar since you wiped my ass for... All right, we're going to bench press now. Now this is a competition bench, also known as a combo rack. So you would obviously squat from up here, bench from down here. The bench is removable. Since it's so close and we have this in the gym, it's fine. But a commercial upright bench would work fine. We're going to do this for sets of 10. Now, when setting up the bench, if you had a commercial gym that had a fixed upright gym, meaning it wasn't adjustable, you're kind of SOL. But because we can adjust this one, we'll want to make sure that you can unrack the bar. So normally I don't love demoing exercises for people because what if I do it wrong and then you've got to copy me. But this might just give everybody a lay of the land, give you a lay of the land of what I want you to do. So again, this is that power bar. These are 31 inches. These score marks are 31 inches. Generally speaking, I like most people to start with their pinky on the score mark. So what we're going to do is we're going to put your eyes on this side of the barbell. And your shoulders and your butt and your head all have to maintain contact with the bench. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to spot my hands and I'm going to grab the bar like it owes me money. Which means you cannot hold the bar with a straight wrist. It'll fall out of your hands. Right. And you don't want this because then your wrist is a little over kind of overexposed there. So I'm just going to grab it and squeeze it tight. Now, if you put your hands straight out in front of you and you squeeze it as hard as possible, you'll see there's a bend there. So you don't have to think about this. Just squeeze the bar hard. Takes care of itself. Squeezing the bar hard, taking care of itself. My eyes are on the front side of the barbell. Bringing the bar, it's going to come to rest directly over my shoulder joint from the side. So even if I started here, it's going to drift there. And if I go forward, it's going to drift back. But that's how we're going to unrack it. I'm going to aim to touch this somewhere on the middle of my sternum. As far as where on the mid sternum, it depends how long your arms are, how wide your grip is and where and that'll determine where it's going to touch. So we'll figure all that out. But we're going to start with your pinkies there. Let's make sure there's the right height for you to, though. Eyes got to be right here, right? Let's put your eyes. Yep. Yeah, it's fine. I like that. Just fine. Pinkies on the score mark. Yeah, that looks to be about the right height. Turns out we're about the same height. There you go. Since I'm here, you're going to count to three and on three, I'm going to help bring it out. I know you don't need my help, but let's just say. Ready? Your count. Your count. You're going to count to three. One, two, three. Good. Okay, cool. Now, without moving the barbell, you're going to try to bring your shoulder blades back into the bench. There you go. Good. And I'm going to touch you to touch right there. So that's too high, right where my finger touched. There you go. Good. Okay, I'm going to tell you to bench every rep. Bench. Okay, shoulder blade. Hang on. So I'm going to tell you to bench. This is a Simon Says kind of thing. All right, so I'm touching right there. That's where the bar is going to touch you. Bench. There you go. One more. Bench. Good. Right. Good. Go ahead and sit up. So we're going to work. We're going to do a set of ten. And the same thing, we're going to try to work up to something that feels challenging. Like you could do maybe two or three reps more. I know on a squat we kind of artificially cut that. So you could probably do a little heavier, but not by a whole lot. Especially to parallel for each of your reps. Your objective, should you choose to accept it, is prior to every rep, pull your shoulder blades back. This is a big source of contention on the internet in power lifters. I'm not talking to you people. We'll talk about that in a separate video. But before every rep, pull your shoulder blades back and take a big breath. The bar path is going to be wonky because you haven't bench pressed in, you know, a long time. I'm not worried about that. We're just going to make sure our setup is good. And then we execute how we execute. Alright, so let's do a set of ten with the empty bar. One, two, three. Good. Shoulder blades. And good. Good. Good. Big breath for each rep. Good. Good. Five more. Two more. One more. Right. Great. Pretty easy. We can add some weight. Good. Go ahead and set up. So the same thing. I'm going to give them two to three minutes rest. We're going to add weight until we identify a set of ten. Add a load that you could do a couple more reps in. So not maximal. Just hard enough for the day. As far as why we chose bench press. We didn't have to. We could have picked a machine. We could have picked dumbbells. So if you have to work out with somebody, you know, not with me and you feel like you want to do dumbbells instead or a machine instead. It's all the same. I want a squat type movement. I want a dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling you know, not with me and you feel like you want to do dumbbells instead or a machine instead. It's all the same. I want a squat type movement. I want a pressing type movement. And today we're going to do what's called a hinge type movement. You've deadlifted before, but today we're going to do a different type of hinge. We'll deadlift the next time we come with you. Two weeks from now, provided we're pretty consistent on this stuff, we'll probably add in some specific stuff for your quads and hamstrings, like isolation type exercises. But I suspect that having you squat, having you bench, and having you do, in this case we're going to do a hip thrust, so a hinge type movement, on a single day is going to represent more loading than you've been exposed to in quite some time. So I don't want to make you too sore. And two, I just want to see how you deal with it. So if you say tomorrow you're like, I don't feel anything. I'm like, great. That means we could have probably done more sets, for example, and or more exercises. But I'd rather be cautious here. The other side of that coin, though, is that I don't want to underdose you forever either. There's a real risk too, right? So, all right, we're going to do this for a set of ten. Big breath before each rep. And make sure to pull your shoulder blades back. One, two, three. Cool. Okay. Good. Two. Three. Good. Two more. Last one. Good. All right. Ready? One, two, three. Good. Good. Good. Three more. Two more. Last one. Good. How'd that feel effort-wise? I feel more. Yeah, yeah. Now, when you're going to pull your shoulder blades back, don't move your elbows. Okay, am I... All we're trying to do is just imagine, pull back against my hand. Yeah, but without moving your elbows. Okay. So put your hand straight in front of you, your Frankenstein. Pull back. There you go. Okay. Okay. Let's do this for a set of ten. You've got to keep your elbows straight when you pull your shoulder blades back. Good. Cool. Ready? One, two, three. Good. Good. Good. You're good. Good. Big breath. Good. Breathe. Good. Two left. One more. There you go. Good. So that's probably the level of difficulty that I'm wanting you to target on most of the exercises that we'll do together. It's not maximal, but it's hard enough where you're like, dang, I had to work. The last two or three were starting to kind of catch up a little bit. Yeah, so you could have probably done two or three more. Yeah. That's close enough. So you can put your feet here. It doesn't matter if they're slightly towed out or towed straight ahead. I just want them to be stable and not move between reps. And I want them to be flat on the floor. So you're going to click it. Cinch it down so it's against crossing over both hip joints. You're going to keep your back and head flat against here. To get started, push your hips up. That unlocks the machine. So that's your finish. It's locked. Now you have freedom. And that's where I'm going. All I'm trying to do is keep my back flat against the thing and extend the hip. There you go. Push it forward. There you go. Down and up. Up. There you go. Big breath. Up. That's two. Three. Hold. Good. Just pause briefly at the top. Five. Six. Seven. One more. Eight. Good. And we'll bring this all the way back. All right. Last set, Pops. You're learning so quickly. Now you know how to get yourself into the thing, how to adjust it, how to rack it. It has to do with the instructor. Yeah. Broken clock twice a day. There you go. Now pull it again. There you go. There you go. Good. Two. Good. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. One more. All the way up. Good. There you go. Good job. First workout. Back in the books. I'm going to try to video as much as I can of me training my dad the next couple of weeks. We'll see how strong you get, man. Well, it's all in your hands. It's all in your hands. It's all in your hands. Thank you.