 All right, this is fairly early morning, we're going to have to head up to Dublin, California, for Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Leah Lutz's meet. Zerv, I think second meet of the year. It's a tune-up, getting ready for all nationals. We're going to vlog about it. This is unfulfilling. But first, we need to get some coffee. ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts I feel like Marty McQuay, but like, not as cool. I feel like ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts Thank you. Thank you. The best part was the bench because you had previously not been able to bench anything at all. Exactly. It's like a Marcella shell thing. I can't lift anything at all. Exactly. I remember crying, as you can imagine, on my PT's bench table. Yeah. Saying, I have to be able to squat. It'd be great if I could bench, but I have to be able to squat. Right. Yeah. And then, since then, you've gone to Worlds a handful of times. You've gone to Arnold a handful of times. You have a busy coaching practice. Surf City, straight. Very cool. So, we're going to take you guys on an in-depth special meat edition vlog here on the Morbo Medicine YouTube channel. It's a nice shirt. We have the same shirt. We do. What you guys don't know is that we have the same shirt. Which is... We're twins. If Tom wears this shirt, we're really going to go. I know. So. My name is Tom Campatale. All right. Where are we at? What are we doing? We are at CSA here in, I believe this is Dublin. Yeah. Not the cool kind, though. Yeah. Dublin, California. Not Dublin, Ireland. So, I've been to Dublin, Ireland, and it was not his form in Dublin, Ireland when I was there. It's 90 degrees here. It was maybe negative something when you were there. With no heat. You got a lifter today, or what's up? I do. I have a woman named Carrie Ma, who is going to be trying to qualify for a raw national series. No. We're going to be doing everything at RPE 11. Yeah, because yours goes to 11. Yes. Which is better. Nice. Tom is one of our resident barbell medicine coaches. He is the ultimate form guru. And what would you say the best trait about you is, Tom? Ooh. I am patient. That is true. Tom is patient. Tom is kind. Tom doesn't... Tom doesn't... Here we go, Leah. He is. Won't you come on over? We can party till the sun's dark We can party by the camp, but we dance in the dance Like a girl, we can cry, we can cry, we can see My ass going boom, boom Hey, if you're looking for some place, hey, yeah I'll tell you everybody's getting better when I'm talking I wanna see you I can go around We can take down a ghost over We can't do the heavens, I can cry, we can cry And we'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting Good job We'll be starting So bring your aching Cause you know in this party, my heart's not warm We could never run but a time's super strong but we got We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting We'll be starting He's looking for your heart and your child He ghosts ghosts Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Terry Ma, you are a client of Tom Campatelli's. Yes. Very cool. And how long have you been training for? Two and a half years. Two and a half years. Very cool. And what did you just squat on your 30-10? What is it in kilos? 1.37. 1.37. 1.37. 1.37. Which is 325-ish pounds. Yeah, 24.6. But who's counting? I'm rounded up, bro. Yeah. So you're 63 kilo? That's right. Okay. Tom tells me that you've been training with really light weights. Mm-hmm. Okay. Relatively light. All right. Yeah. Tell us about what's been your training. Your last meet was two months ago, right? Yep. You've been on the road a lot. Yes. So a bunch of your training resources have been compromised. How many times a week do you lift? Sure. I lift three times a week. Three times, okay, while traveling. Mm-hmm. And then how do you pick your weight? Like, what do you, you know, how do you figure that out? So Tom gives me a range. And the overachiever in me usually tries to go for the higher end of that range. Right. But when I'm traveling, and especially for work, and then I get to the gym, in a different time zone, at 8 p.m., that's when I usually pick the lighter weights. Sure. And it took me a while to feel okay with that, to feel like I wasn't progressing. But now I love it. And even the last couple of weeks, I've been choosing weights more in the middle of that range. Gotcha. So how many times do you think in the last, like, two months have you done a 10 out of 10 bone-on-bone grinder of, like, a, you know, a five-rep max, a three-rep max, or? Never. Oh, f***. Okay. Amazing. Amazing. Sounds like witchcraft to me. So Carrie squatted 325, 324.6 for a peddance. And her rep work, which included, like, actually a fair amount of higher repetition sets. Like, I moved her to sevens and eights. Sounds like a bodybuilding program. Yeah, it kind of sounds like a bodybuilding program, along with pause squats. So we have a variance in the middle of the week. Pause. Yes. Her rep work never went above, was it 235 or 240? 240. Maybe it was 242 and a half most recently. Okay. For sixes. So 242 and a half for six, squatted 325 for a single. And her volume across the week is actually not super high, but it's considerably higher than it used to be. Each workout actually uses lighter weights. And we're essentially through just, like, more work. Instead of beating her up with heavy weights, I'm giving her more work, more, essentially, more reps throughout the week. And she accumulates that each training session is less stressful on its own as far as being, like, an exhausting kind of thing. But, I mean, it's actually when you accumulate the stress over the week, there is actually more stress. It's more stress. Yeah. But each, we're actually accumulating useful stress as opposed to just exhausting the lifting. Junk stress. No. Well, yeah. I mean, Tom and I made this case. So you're the product of, well, I don't know what you're the product of. But, well, so the idea wasn't that we don't like easy stuff. Like, that's not our, you know, we jokingly refer to we do easy training, right? Because it's lighter, submaximal stuff. The point is that you can do a really heavy set of five, for instance, and it feels hard, right? And it took a lot of mental energy to, like, complete that. And you're like, wow, I'm cooked for the day. But it may not actually impart a significant amount of stress if we define stress as that which contributes to, like, getting better. It may just, like, have been a hard thing to do. And so you had to do more rest volume, which helps with hypertrophy and which is manageable while you travel. It's pretty cool. Thanks. Yeah. Also, I mean, the use of auto-regulation is extremely useful, especially when you have a trainee that's been training for a while and knows kind of how to, knows how heavy something should feel. It's far better to, like, if something's feeling too heavy for the day, like, it's exhausting taking a little bit of weight off and actually making the reps is more useful. And that also means potentially not doing sets across. Like, if you're going to be doing three sets or four sets and the first two sets are at a weight and then as you start to fatigue you take a little weight off the bar, but they are essentially feeling the same as far as the level of exertion. Which, in some circles, may be called the rate of perceived exertion. Then, like, that is actually a very potentially useful way to train and you can still make progress on it without mashing yourself into a problem. And I do do that a lot. Yeah. You do the way you do a lot. I do. I do do. I do vary the weights across sets. I was just trying to make sure that she wasn't saying she do-doed a lot. I mean, she's a lifter, so. What do you do for work? I'm a product manager at a startup. That sounds very impressive. Yeah. Well, it's not 40 hours a week. It can be a lot. What's your favorite lift? Squat. Squat. Are you a dog or a cat person? Dog. Okay. And these are all wrong answers. Excellent. These are all wrong answers. Dogs over cats every day of the week. Deadlifts over swats. Cats over dogs. Yeah. Right. Right. It's like I'm thinking about proper form. Thinking about cues that you've given me feedback on. So it's not easy per se. It's not easy. And even, like I said, with deadlifts. Back when I was only deadlifting heavy once a week. Heavy, heavy-ish once a week. A week would go by, and then I deadlift again. I feel like I forgot to do deadlifts. Whereas now, with more breath warm, I feel much more comfortable deadlifting. And, you know, as far as, like, handling heavy weight, you do singles very regularly. And it's not, they're not maximal singles. But also, you just get used to having that weight on your back. It's not just once a week you're handling something heavy. It's twice a week for the squad. It's, you know, once a week on the dead. It's, like, twice a week or sometimes even more on the bench press. You're handling something that's heavy for a single but not crushing it. So you just get good at it. It's useful. It's useful. That fighting bomb guy, you know, he's okay. He's alright. He's okay. We can do. I tell you need to ask it for you. Anything more than rain. More than the pouring rain. I can't have more to explain. No, I won't go down the drain. Cause I'm there too. Always so true. Always so blind. We were born restless minds. Incompatible, different signs. Sweet, sweet, sweet. I don't think it's worth the trouble. Trouble, trouble. I think it's over that you make it. Double, double, double. Perhaps I should have known for the let go. There are some things that you have to let go. But I don't think it's worth the trouble. Trouble, trouble. ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts ghosts Double, double. I think it's over that way I can double. Double, double. There's a cinema world. Double, double, double. Somebody sing it to my heart. Double, double, double. If you are in trouble, double, double. Whatever. End of the meet. Yes. How do you feel about it? I feel pretty good. I had a great deadlift. It was not an easy meet. It wasn't my best meet, but that's how they go sometimes. Sure. And after bench, I just had to keep telling myself that it wasn't over yet. So none of that mattered anymore, and I just had to get the pull I wanted. And I did. Now, do you think that the heat played a factor? Most likely. I've never been this uncomfortable at a meet. And so it was hard to eat. And, yeah. I am not, I just can't stop sweating. So that's awesome. Okay. Any closing thoughts that you want to give to the viewers at home? Um, I guess just that it's, meets are really different than training, and there's a lot of reasons why we do them. And I do enjoy competing, even though it's stressful. I like the challenge. And today I had some definite challenges. I would have liked a better squat and a better bench, but that just wasn't going to happen today. So my job as a competitor is to just keep doing what I know I need to do and not give up. So it's one of the good things about a meet. Yeah. You get to test yourself the whole time. Yeah, we get to learn a lot. Yeah. By competing, by testing. Yeah. So, um. It's really different than just training in the gym. Yeah. Yeah, I know a lot of people who are apparently really, really strong at the gym, but then the meets are, it's a different story. Exactly. Well, I'm proud of you. You did well today. Thank you. Particularly under the conditions. And, uh, yeah. Thanks. Very cool being here with you finally. So, all right, we just got done, uh, with the meet and I think Leah did very well. Again, it's like a million degrees here and training going in the meet was pretty good. So I thought she was going to do, yeah, I think 157 and a half, 85, 165 would have been, uh, uh, you know, the best meet that I had planned for. So to be very close to that and hit deadlift PR, uh, had a meet was, uh, a really good, really good job for her in these conditions. So I'm going to head back home and, uh, and get back to training. Uh,