 kolibibib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kolib kol Quality evidence behind the biohacking genre of content gaining popularity. Like a coffee enema? I suppose that might qualify. That's right. Example, 30 minutes of sunlight in the morning, particularly sunning your yanni. Are you into that? Dude, I had to look up how to spell yanni. How do you think you spell yanni? I don't know what that is. Okay, it's your peri... Your urogenital triangle, if you're trying to sun that. Oh, okay. That's your yanni. How do you think you spell yanni? Y-A-N-I? It's Y-O-N-I. Obviously, you're an amateur. 30 minutes of sunlight in the morning, supplementing with electrolytes, hot and cold exposure for HGH, for human growth hormone, red light therapy, blue light glasses, nasal breathing, and mouth taping. They went in on the examples here. That's a lot of examples. And I think for the evidence on each of those things, it would just be a very, very long answer. As far as why do people believe in these things, some of them have been promulgated by very, very influential individuals based on either their own personal experience, like, oh, I did this, felt this. Try it for yourself. That's the evidence. This anecdotal evidence. Some of these things have maybe a mechanistic plausibility in that there's a biological mechanism that seems like it might be beneficial to health, performance, or both, longevity in some cases, but has not been replicated in large human data sets, which is why we don't necessarily recommend this stuff. Look, if I could tell you that sunning your nether regions every morning was going to add years to your life or life to your years, I would be up here. We would have a whole section on how to appropriately sun your urogenital triangle. We would give everybody a break in midday to go get maximal sun exposure. We would do it together. Yeah, privately. Okay. Same thing. Look, if there was a performance benefit to be had by supplementing with electrolytes before, during, or after a workout. We would do it. We would do it. Look, we choke down creatine on a regular basis, and the benefit for that is like... A dry scoop? Yeah. Straight to the dome. The issue is that if there's not any sort of clinically relevant signal, meaning that data in humans that actually changes an outcome we care about, it is very difficult to feel confident in recommending these things. And although we do not have the following of a Joe Rogan, a Rhonda Patrick, a Huberman, etc. There were some names in this question originally that I took out, but there you go. Okay. Put them back in. Although our following is not that big, we do feel ethically charged to be responsible with our recommendations. And so until there are quality data sets suggesting a benefit, we just can't recommend them. The only thing I'll say on here is with the mouth taping, for example, they do that in some individuals with obstructive sleep apnea who are having difficulties using like a nasal pillow device, and that seems to be a benefit. Had a sleep doctor slide into my DMs and show me some evidence on that. And so in that case, that seems fine. But if you're just doing mouth taping without like the CPAP, it feels like, I mean, you imagine going to bed, like you say to Lorraine, night, babe. And she goes to ask you, hey, Austin, when's our dinner reservation for tomorrow? You go, mm-mm. Like, I just don't think that's going to work. Yeah. Last thing I'll say on this particular question with respect to human growth hormone, like this is actually an extensively studied hormone as far as how it seems to affect not only health and performance. And it doesn't seem like any fluctuation or like optimization of your HGH as an adult seems to matter. If it drops below a normal level, general badness. But any super physiological doses of HGH do not do anything except for general badness. Make your jaw grow. Make your internal organs grow. But you don't get stronger. You don't gain more lean body mass. You don't get leaner. You don't recover from injury faster. You don't get an adamantium skeleton. All you get is a big jaw and a big gut and a lot of money missing from your wallet. So any sort of technique to optimize HGH, raise HGH, take HGH is a money grab. And some people are going to be reading this. Like, well, I heard that HGH was great. Like, from who? And what are their ties to the industry? Just saying. Follow the evidence. Yeah. This whole genre of content really irritates me. I think that people in general these days are just, like, addicted to more information about anything. And the more they're just regurgitating, you know, this latest thing from this abstract in this rat study or something like that. And here's why you should do this thing. Just adding more and more and more to the list of things that people need to do every day to achieve perfect health. And then if I look and I take the population who is swallowing that content and I look at the article that we have on our website titled, like, where should my priorities be for health? There are, like, seven priorities for health on that topic. And I take that population and I see what proportion of people in this population are meeting all of these top priorities that I would suggest for people's health to include meeting or exceeding the physical activity guidelines, having adequate high-quality sleep, eating the dietary pattern that we're talking about with respect to, you know, fiber consumption, fruit and vegetable consumption, saturated fat content, adequate protein, things like that, et cetera, among the other things on that list. The likelihood that the likelihood that the likelihood that the likelihood that the likelihood that the people who are listening to that and trying to stack more and more and more optimization things into their daily routine are meeting all of the things on that list, exceptionally slim. And so we have evidence for so much more effective, you know, big-time impacts on health outcomes from these very basic things, but basic things are not super exciting and fun. And so, you know, nerding out on this stuff that they come out with every week can be addictive in itself, I suppose, for some of these folks. And, yeah, I'm not really a fan, particularly when the evidence for it in humans is not good. So I am happy to ignore those folks, and I recommend you do too. Nice. Yeah, just care less. I got it. Okay. Okay.