 regarding back pain being so prevalent globally, I'm wondering if it is attributable to just a lack of activity, overuse due to lifestyle or occupation, or overuse due to lifestyle or occupation, or general lack of musculature or support or lack of activity, or how do you guys think about it, and is this something we can help people with in terms of prevention or reducing the incidence of in the population or just those around us? That's a long question. Yeah. A lot of commas. Yeah. Yeah, I feel like 21 Savage is a lot of commas. And I think this question helps us hammer home a few important points from the pain discussion, because the way this question is framed seems to continue to look for a singular explanation for back pain, right? And hopefully if there's anything you took away, it's that it's real complicated, it's very multifactorial, every individual person's experience of back pain is going to be related to a whole bunch of different variables that are unique to them, their situation, their culture, their surroundings, their occupation, etc., etc., etc. So I do not typically attribute back pain, incidence, prevalence, disability, things like that, to things like just a lack of activity or overuse or lack of musculature or any of those things. Rather, talking to the person, learning about their experience, assessing all of those different biological, psychosocial variables that we talked about, figuring out, is this person somebody who needs more immediate change in what I'm doing for them because they have some real badness going on, like they need surgery, they have cancer in their spine, they have an infection in their spine, obviously very, very, very, very rare situations, broadly speaking. Or is this one of those that does not require one of those immediate, urgent kind of referrals for those kind of things, and we have all these other strategies that we can work on to manage it. The other piece of this question relates to prevention, and prevention of low back pain is an area of a ton of research, and unfortunately, really little promising results. From the 2018 Lancet series on low back pain, they have a specific article on prevention of low back pain, a section of it dedicated to that, where they review evidence on things. For example, like does wearing belts reduce the incidence of prevent back pain? No. Shoe inserts, do those prevent low back pain? No. No. Et cetera, et cetera. The things that they found that had some evidence, although it's not incredibly high-quality evidence, nor is it incredibly massive effect sizes, was education and exercise, which sounds like a cliché coming from us when we talk about this topic, but those were the only things that they identified that had even some evidence for the prevention, quote-unquote, or reducing the risk of people developing back pain. And so, you know, I'm not going to be, I'm not super hopeful that we are going to find ways to prevent the incidence of back pain, because I think that, when I say incidence, I mean people experiencing new onset acute back pain. I think that's just part of the human condition, like getting a cold. I think it's going to happen. I think more so when it happens, how we manage it in that situation. The messages that people get from their clinicians, healthcare professionals, from society, what should I do in a situation where I am experiencing back pain? I think that's where we have more of an opportunity to kind of move the needle as far as how disabling is this? How long does this last? How long does this impact people? And how likely are they to get better, return back to life, work, et cetera, et cetera? So a lot of the messages that you guys heard in the lecture today revolved more around that. How do we talk about this? How do we communicate it around it? What should the recommendations be for people who are experiencing it? Rather than if you move this one particular way, you won't get back pain. Or if you use this belt, or if you do this particular magic exercise, or if you do bird dogs, or whatever the case is, you won't experience back pain, because that ain't it. It's not going to work that way. I could imagine some sort of like very well-funded, you know, public education campaign where it's like, exercise your back. And it's not that the exercise itself is necessarily going to reduce the incidence or whatever, but you could pair a bunch of education and verbiage and phrasing with it to sort of give people like a Reader's Digest version of your pain lecture. And that might move the needle as far as like the disability associated and sort of attitude surrounding like having low back pain. That's, I think, like the most promising area. Australia is doing better at that. Yeah. Sort of the research side and translating that into clinical recommendations and things like that. Yeah. For the clinicians in the audience, there was something that was just published in September of 2022 called the Low Back Pain Clinical Care Standard. And that came out from Australia. And it is a fantastic document. I was recently on a podcast interview regarding low back pain for primary care doctors. And I referenced the hell out of this document. Would recommend anybody who sees patients, deals with patients, or even coaches. The way the document is written is not super fancy advanced clinical language, but September 22, low back pain clinical care standard from Australia is top notch stuff. Would recommend. We'll link it in the description. There you go. Australians are on top of it. Are you aware of their Slip Slop Slap campaign? We both learned about that in medical school. That's right. All right. We'll see you next time.