 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter women's coaches and the rest, you know, men don't understand weight loss in women because it's hormones. I assume they're not talking about like hormones at the level of the brain, because in which case I could make maybe an argument there. So why is there this controversy? I think it's mainly because weight management is difficult. Very, very challenging, you know, and even when you look at some of like the observational research on this, it's pretty interesting. So obesity rates are increasing, but self-reported food intake and food availability data suggests that that's decreasing amidst self-reported increases in exercise, albeit modest. So for example, adjusted mean energy intake of U.S. adults decreased in the period between 2003 and 2004 compared to 2009 and 2010 by about 100 calories or so. And during the same period of time, obesity rates went up by about three and a half, 4%. And so there are alternate models that have been produced. So this carbohydrate insulin model where people who eat more carbohydrates or insulin levels go up, that causes more fat storage independently of energy intake. That's the sort of idea behind the carbohydrate insulin model, CIM. And there's been other models around like ultra processed foods that like, okay, these ultra processed foods are devoid of various micronutrients and other sort of things. And, you know, it's not about calories just because you don't have all these nutrients and that makes you, you know, gain weight. Let's see if we can come to a consensus here. To date, there have been no successful challenges to the energy balance model for long-term weight management outside of a relatively rare condition called lipedema. The short-term changes in weight are mostly related to body water, so fluid, so gaining water weight, losing water weight. And overall, people vastly underestimate their energy intake. And it's generally worse in folks with excess body fat, excess adipose tissue. On average, people underestimate their energy intake by about 30%, but there's a wide range here. And people tend to overestimate their energy expenditure on average. The total amount or relative amount depends on the comparator. So like, how are you assessing, like, is this person's estimation correct or accurate or not, but compared to extremely accurate measures of energy expenditure? So doubly labeled water. People have overestimated their energy expenditure by over a hundred percent when recalling their activity level over the previous year. The other part of this is that exercise, because people count exercise, obviously, as part of their total daily energy expenditure. Well, it's not purely additive to your total daily energy expenditure. So for total daily energy expenditure, you have, you know, you basic life supporting processes, like keep the lights on that cost energy. There's some amount of energy that's required to digest, metabolize, and otherwise store your food. And there's energy that's required to power yourself to move about your environment. And then exercise on top of that would be quote additive, meaning like, oh, well, I walked for an hour or two hours or did resistance training. People think, well, I burned X amount of calories here. So I just add that on top. That's not exactly accurate, especially in the chronic, like chronic exercisers. So people who've been doing it for more than six months. And so your body just tends to compensate by using less energy for these other processes to some degree. It varies amongst individuals and weight regulation and dietary practices are complex. So people, when they're losing weight or gaining weight, there's some level of what we call metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis. So some people who are quote, like resistant to weight gain, well, their metabolism will speed up when they eat more and overfeeding studies or overfeeding situations. Similarly, when people are exposed to an energy deficit, some folks will be resistant to lose weight, their metabolism will slow down a little bit. And same thing with hunger and satiety. These are very complex processes, and the body may defend a certain sort of range of body weight. We'll talk about that more in one of these future controversy questions in this episode. So again, no successful challenges to energy balance. The ultra processed food thing. Yeah, they tend to have more calories and are less filling, thereby increasing energy intake on balance. So it doesn't really challenge the calories in calories out sort of final common pathway. And so yeah, it still remains as the proximate cause of weight management. Um, it's undefeated. If your energy intake is greater than the amount of calories that you burn, you will gain weight 100%, 10 out of 10 by definition. And if you burn more calories than you consume, you'll lose weight. Uh, unless again, there's some major fluid shifts that are going on for some other reason. This still encompasses all possible contributions from hormones, processed foods, individual variation, and so on. But in saying all of that, and I think when people really are pushing back against calories in calories out, what they mean, what they truly mean is that, Hey, look, this isn't a great sort of strategy for a lot of people to lose weight. They're like, look, calorie counting calories didn't work for me. So calories in calories out. It's BS. Like, well, no, what you're saying is that that particular intervention is not particularly helpful for a large swath of population. And I agree with that. Crazy those days. I agree with that. You can pay professionals, nutritionists, registered dietitians to, you know, quote, track their calories and they're still off of their, you know, the actual amount of energy that they're taking in. So can you imagine what it's like in the general public? And it just, yeah, I agree that counting calories is probably not a great intervention, but that doesn't mean that energy balance isn't like the rule or the law here. Yeah. It's, I think, uh, easiest said that it is accurate, but not useful for, for, for a lot of people. And I sometimes think about it in terms of like internal and external validity, which are some science-y terms relating to when you do an ultra rigorous study under very particular conditions, uh, that might not always translate into what it is like kind of quote unquote in the real world. And so if you lock people up in a metabolic ward study and you control every calorie that enters their mouth and, and is absorbed and is then metabolized into usable energy by their body. And you are also in control to the extent that you have control over it, over their energy expenditure, i.e., for example, their activity and things like that. Uh, then you can have, uh, quite, uh, confident and rigorous models and predictive methods to assess their body weight changes over time. The model will hold quite well in that sort of a situation. But then as soon as you exit that metabolic ward chamber and you put people out in the real world, uh, it is much more difficult to execute, uh, something like that to that level of rigor. And so the, it's not to say that the energy balance situation is no longer accurate, but rather it is not kind of experienced in the same way. And so when you are just, when, when you are kind of reducing the weight management equation down to this for people, it's almost implied that it is the strategy. It's like, oh, it's the final common pathway. So that is the level where you should intervene. And maybe that's not the level where you should intervene. And people are finding other kind of levels of this biology where interventions are more productive or more effective, either broadly speaking, or for a given person. And so maybe intervening at that final common pathway is actually not the best place. And I think that is reflected in our own thoughts on this, where we're like a better place to intervene on this is that like the food environment level, for example, right? If that were feasible, because then that would have this cascade of downstream effects and benefits that ultimately would impact the calorie intake and potentially even the calorie, you know, uh, output, uh, side of the sides of the equation, but not by intervening all the way at the end, where we tell people just be in this like toxic food environment where you don't have to do anything. Um, you know, you can get ultra tasty foods that have little satiating effects with like no activity requirements in, in life. Um, and just like stop eating, right. Which is, that's a functionally what that's saying is when you're intervening at the end versus whether that type of how, how available that type of thing is at all is a much, uh, stronger determinant of people's likelihood to obtain and consume it. So I do think of it in terms of this internal external validity thing. And so the scientists who are thinking in terms of internal validity, metabolic ward studies, to some extent are talking past the folks who are attacking calories in calories out, even the clinicians who you mentioned at the outset who were saying it doesn't work. And it's like, well, it's not a thing that can work or not. It is like the biological fact, but when you say it doesn't work, it suggests that you are viewing this as an intervention with poor external validity when applied to the real world that we all live in. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I would just also finally point out that any alternate model and their proposed interventions from that alternate model, whether it's carb reduction for the carbohydrate insulin model, whether it's reduction in ultra processed foods from this processed food, uh, sort of, sort of model, they all dovetail into this final common pathway of reducing energy intake compared to energy expenditure when matched for calories in, there's no weight loss advantage from having a, from consuming a low carbohydrate diet outside of short-term weight, uh, water weight losses, same thing for ultra processed foods or whatever. If there was this huge benefit, we tell you about it. Yeah. We'd be the first to tell you. Uh, but instead we're just telling you to maybe ignore these folks, uh, that are advice surrounding, um, calories in, calories out because ultimately misinformation. Agree. All right. Cool. END