 Honnaonnaonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaasonnaas Next question. Do the addictive properties of energy-dense, hyperpalatable foods affect appetite and satiety imbalance? Does addiction to these types of foods play a role in overall increase in adiposity in the population? So I'll answer the second question first. In a subset of individuals with excess adiposity or individuals with obesity, yes, there are addictive behaviors engaged that are part and parcel with their food-related behaviors, whether that's food-seeking and the type of foods that they buy, and some of them certainly are hyperpalatable, ultra-processed, energy-dense foods. Food addiction is a small subset of obesity in general, and the contribution of food addiction or particular addiction to specific types of either macronutrients, whether it's carbohydrates, fat, or the blend between particular foods, is a current area of research that is pretty controversial. I will link in the description below on this video and then tell you, the audience, that there is a great, it's called a Great Debates in Nutrition, in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition on food addiction and whether it's a thing or not, and then how to think about this. And so the distillation from that, as far as I interpret it, is that food addiction might be a thing, although regulated through different pathways than other addictions, and it is a small subset of individuals with obesity in general. And I don't think that I would strictly limit that to energy-dense, hyperpalatable, ultra-processed foods, because there are other foods that people are addicted to that don't necessarily qualify for that in that small subset. So yes, for a certain small group, I would, yes, agree with that, but I don't think that energy-dense, hyperpalatable, ultra-processed foods are addicting broadly across the population. Rather, I think that they are not satiating, they don't instill this feeling of fullness, they're easily available, and that they're everywhere, and that they're very, very cheap. And so because they have basically flooded the food environment, we cannot escape them. And until they are either less prevalent in our food environment or giving people much more healthy options for them to choose in our food environment, we won't be able to really do anything about this obesity epidemic. I mean, we've been saying this every seminar, podcast, and Q&A. If you don't change the food environment for everybody, we are not going to fix this problem. And so, I mean, I don't know what's being done on the food environment level. I mean, there's been sugar taxes, there's been soda taxes, and some evidence of efficacy or both of those things, but the food environment must change, otherwise... If you don't change the food environment, our only hope to put a substantial dent in the problem is with these highly potent medication treatments that we have available. Unfortunately, a substantial portion of the population collectively is opposed to both of those things. Yes. They want neither food environment changes, because that involves big government and things like that, nor do they want medications, because that's a crutch, and you should just try harder, because it's a, you know, puritanical society. You've got to pull yourself up by the bootstraps. There you go. And then just slog through it, because I walked up... Good luck to everybody out there. Yeah, good luck. Good luck. Very optimistic message here at the Barbell Medicine Seminar. Really want to leave you guys on a high note. All right.