 asiassassATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATATAT that. VO2 max, for those who are listening at home and may be unfamiliar with what it actually is, it's a measurement of your maximum oxygen uptake. It usually requires a maximal effort test with a metabolic heart to get a real number. Cardiorespiratory fitness, on the other hand, is more broad than that. In most large studies, it's an estimated treadmill test, estimated exercise test sort of thing. You take it to tolerance where people either have signs, if it's like a cardiac rehab sort of situation, or just otherwise they feel some breathlessness, they can't continue. And so you get a measurement of metabolic equivalence at peak effort. You can also get a submaximal test. There's also questionnaires. There's a bunch of different ways to test it, but most of the time in the research, it's an exercise tolerance test sort of thing. So Atiyah, despite this, gives specific VO2 max percentile targets by age and sex in his book, despite the underlying studies not actually measuring that. So he says, despite all of this, that VO2 max is the single most powerful marker for longevity. He's been saying it on his podcast, it's all over his book, Outlive. And honestly, he's probably right directionally, but Dr. Topol and some other people on Twitter have recently been kind of like taken the task for this. And particularly Dr. Topol's pointed critique suggests there's like a meaningful scientific problem with that claim. Austin, you want to walk us through that claim? I can do my best. This is an area where, you know, although the conversation is interesting, I see part of the issue being that folks like Dr. Atiyah, quote unquote, optimizers are very interested in discrete and concrete metrics that they can aim to optimize. And there's, I forget the eponymous law that once the measure becomes the outcome, it often like ceases to become a good measure, right? And so you're right that directionally, this is accurate in the sense of VO2 max as a type of assessment for cardiorespiratory or aerobic fitness, but it is incomplete. And so why aiming to just specifically target that outcome with your, you know, your training protocols, just aiming at VO2 max optimization might be missing, missing some things. And so some of the commonly cited studies in this realm, one in 2022 and Gemma network open very frequently cited that looked at exercise capacity assessed by the METS kind of measurement that we've talked about before from a stress test, not a direct VO2 max measure, but rather the MET performance is then mapped onto your VO2 max kind of percentiles. And there are several others that also use, you know, performance-based metrics like, um, another one in Gemma from 1989 that used a treadmill time. That's a performance-based test. Dr. Topol's point and many others who have made similar arguments is that we're kind of, um, conflating or looking at various measures of cardiorespiratory fitness, which is a much more broad and kind of like an umbrella description of what we're talking about and trying to collapse it down into this single metric of VO2 max, which is a very particular thing that has very particular limiters, meaning that there are certain things that it will tell you more about. So it might tell you a little bit more about like cardiac function, for example, like central kind of adaptations and a little bit less about some of the more peripheral determinants of cardiorespiratory like performance. And so, you know, the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and longevity is pretty clear. No one is really arguing that or debating it at this point, at least I hope not. I think maybe some of our former colleagues still, uh, maybe, uh, under-prioritize this in the strength training space, but, um, people who are reasonable generally agree that being more fit from a cardiorespiratory standpoint is going to, uh, be both associated with, and to some extent, causally related to improvements in health and longevity and lifespan and healthspan and all of these good things that we're looking after, but rather that collapsing it down into just VO2 max is short-sighted. Um, given that most of the evidence that we're drawing this off of looks at actual performance. And so what kind of things can you draw from this? It might be like, Hey, um, maybe why don't we just pay attention to performance and we don't need to use this very particular metric. People who are very much into biomarkers and biohacking and optimizing very specific numbers on a lab test or, or something that they can, uh, you know, go out and do or calculate might not love that. They might get a little uncomfortable with it, but at the same time, I don't know that you or I would have a problem with like picking a benchmark test and aiming to improve that over time and saying, if that performance test, that road test, um, that is relatively standardized over time is generally improving, then it is a reasonable take to say my cardiorespiratory fitness from central adaptations to peripheral adaptations to VO2 max, all of that is improving likely improving a variety of other health outcomes and longevity as well. I don't know. What are your, what's your take there? Yeah. I don't want to be like an Atiyah apologist, you know, in some ways and reframe his actual, um, discussion or his, his claims. Cause honestly, I'm not super familiar with everything he's ever said about this. It is totally possible that he's overstated, um, this, perhaps even, even likely, but I think the pushback is mostly around, look, he gives these specific percentiles that people should be targeting. And like, that's the benchmark. And I can understand some criticism around that if they're not really based on the metric that he's telling people to chase, but that seems fine. But it seems more of like a semantic sort of thing to me, because I actually think it's useful to have a target like this. The analogous would be like a strength, you know, a strength standard, like you should get your strength up to this much on a particular exercise or this particular test. And it's like, yeah, well not all encompassing. It does give us what I view as a very important variable with respect to exercise prescription. It's the monitoring thing because exercise works better when it actually works to make you fitter. So it's not just like, do the guidelines, double the guidelines. It's like, yeah, but do it in a way that makes you stronger, that improves your cardiorespiratory fitness. And the VO2 max is a reasonable sort of test of your cardiorespiratory fitness. There are other ways to test it too. So he could have picked, you know, a 20 minute cycle time trial test and say, look, here's the data we have on that, or like a, or a power output sort of thing. You could have done any of that. We put in our barbell medicine vital five, like look, VO2 max, here are some targets to get people to shoot for, mainly because it's not enough in my opinion or our opinion to say, yeah, just exercise, do it in a way that's productive. And also, by the way, exercise tolerance test has a really good correlation to actual measured VO2 max. So it's not like they're worlds apart. Anyway, there's just more stuff or different things that are being captured in that test. So I don't think a TIA is wrong per se. It may be wrong about the precision, but right about the direction. It's not really the same error. And I do think, again, as you mentioned, nobody's arguing against like cardiorespiratory fitness being useful. I just think, sure, if you want to say the specific percentile thresholds are not exactly as evidence-based as he's leading on, fine. You could just chastise him for not being a great science communicator in this particular respect. Although, what's the harm? Well, think about it this way. Here's the pushback to your pushback on this, which we're kind of doing in real time here. If we're in agreement that cardiorespiratory fitness is the real thing that we care about, but we want a metric and we use VO2 max. Then what happens, and this is what we observed in that space a fair amount of the time, is people looking for very specific, quote unquote, protocols aimed at optimizing that one measure, right? To the potential exclusion or kind of deprioritization of other possible ways of training that would also improve cardiorespiratory fitness in other ways, even if not kind of, quote unquote, optimized towards VO2 max. So this is where you'll hear them talk about this particular interval training protocol that was done in the study and was shown to improve VO2 max. And I would do that instead of, you know, this other form of aerobic training or cardiorespiratory training. An analog that I might be able to draw here is like, let's say that we look at the strength training evidence. And it's like, yeah, strength, pretty clear, you know, predictive power, good correlation with health outcomes and things like that. And so the metric or the outcome that I'm going to use is grip strength. And so then all of my training protocols are going to be oriented around improving my grip strength. Is that going to make you healthier compared with not doing any strength training? Sure. Are there a lot of other ways that you could train to improve your strength that would also be useful, even if you were not singularly focused on that one potential metric? Absolutely. Right. You could pick any exercise. Maybe somebody else might say, oh, it's your, you know, five RM back squat. It's like, okay, well then the only way that I'm going to aim to improve my strength for health and longevity is by back squatting and everything's in the order. It's like, yeah, there's a lot of ways that you could train for strength that will improve your health outcomes. And some that might even be worth including that you are deprioritizing because you're very focused on this one measure. So I think that's, that's kind of like where there's a little bit of daylight between, you know, these, these different, these different positions, these different takes, having metrics is great, but collapsing everything down into that one metric and making that the primary outcome of interest to potentially the exclusion of other like valuable aspects might be where some people could improve the way they go about this. Yeah. Just to wrap this up, you'll note in the Barbell Medicine Vital 5, it wasn't just a VO2 max number. It was also some field tests that could be done across different modalities. And we kind of explicitly recommend that. So we don't hamstring people by saying, you just got to get your VO2 max up and do anything else that doesn't directly raise your VO2 max is useless. We're just like, look, we want to improve your cardiorespiratory fitness. Here are various benchmarks you can chase or monitor your progress over time, because I think it does add a critical element that's missing from the current guidelines, which is not do the exercise, but also make sure it works for you. Yeah. We'll see you next time.