 rumba recommendations suggesting that two strength sessions per week plus 7,000 to 12,000 daily steps are sufficient to optimize health outcomes. Optimize, you know, a lot of heavy lifting in that sentence. Does walking at that volume meaningfully count towards physical activity guidelines for cardiorespiratory fitness? In a personal training context, should coaches still encourage additional conditioning, so low intensity steady state or some high intensity interval training if clients are already hitting 7,000 to 20,000 steps per day and have limited time for training? Austin, I'm going to lead with a fun fact. I don't know if you knew this. Okay. Leonardo da Vinci, the Italian artist who painted The Last Supper, he is credited with inventing the first step counter. It was mounted at the waist and had a long lever that was tied to the thigh. And so when the thigh moved back and forth during walking, the gears rotated and the resulting steps were counted. Genius. Yeah, it's like a like the analog of like a mechanical watch kind of mechanism back in the day. Yeah, so I think this question boils down to enough for what, you know, optimal is different than like adequate and then adequate for what? So is it enough to live longer? That's not the same as enough to improve VO2 max or cardiorespiratory fitness, which is not the same as enough to meet activity guidelines, which is not the same as enough, you know, get to optimize longevity. These require kind of different answers. I think the 10,000 steps thing has been mostly debunked. You know, most folks are aware that this is mostly a marketing thing, not necessarily a scientific thing. And if you're not aware, well, it came from the 1960s. There's a Japanese marketing campaign for a pedometer where the name literally meant 10,000 step meter. The number was chosen because the Japanese character for 10,000 resembles a person walking. So purely aesthetic and marketing and hats off to that person because quite genius. Yet it still persists in some sort of health recommendation. It's pretty reasonable to me. I've done a little dive deep dive into this previously where in the United States, most adults with their habitual activity levels will walk somewhere or take somewhere between 4,000 and 6,000 steps per day. Obviously, this varies based on occupational activity and obviously health condition where some health conditions that walk far less than that. Some health conditions actually walk more. But yeah, somewhere between 4,000 to 6,000 steps per day. So if you bumped this person step count up to 10,000 and on average with the self-selected gait speed, which is around three miles an hour, more or less, it takes about 10 minutes to walk a thousand steps. So if you're at the upper end of that range, 6,000 steps per day, and you bump it to 10,000 steps per day, that's 40 minutes of additional walking or additional exercise. And so yeah, there's some decent evidence showing that when people increase their step count from around, you know, 4,000 to 6,000 steps per day up to 7,500 steps per day is associated with significantly lower mortality in various populations. And that's kind of where that evidence settles out right in that 7,000, 8,000 steps per day. Above that, it's not to say there's no additional benefit. But I think this kind of gets at the crux of the question, is this enough to sort of generate improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness that are analogous to other forms of cardio? In other words, could you just recommend walking relative or instead of or in place of, you know, formal conditioning on a, you know, elliptical on an exercise bike on the stairs? Austin, what do you think about that? Is walking intense enough to sort of, you know, meet criteria for true exercise? Or is it more of like, it's activity, but not necessarily exercise? Yeah, I think that this question is unanswerable as stated. And the reason, as you stated, to be clear, and the reason why is just, is walking intense enough? Because, you know, it's like, it's like saying, is squatting intense enough? And it's like, well, how much are you doing? Right? And so there's always going to be the trade-off of intensity and overall volume. And so one of the interesting kind of rabbit holes, I can't say that I've done a ultra comprehensive deep dive into it, but something that I've found interesting recently was this concept of the physical activity level, abbreviated as PAL, which kind of describes the ratio of the person's total energy expenditure compared with their basal metabolic rate. And that as a proxy for various sorts of health outcomes and things like that. And so, you know, you can have a physical activity level of PAL of like one or 1.5 or 2 or 2.5, again, as a multiplier of how many times your basal metabolic rate are you expending per day. And so there are a lot of different ways that you can achieve that type of higher, like overall physical activity level, overall energy expenditure. We've talked about this a little bit in other contexts where it seems that just like overall flux through the system, meaning like, you know, say you're like consuming calories, the calorie flux through the system, the way it's consumed, metabolized, and expended. Same with like lipid flux is a very important sort of thing, rather than the lipids like stagnating in your blood for long periods of time. If they are moving through getting cleared quickly, like people tend to do better. And so there's some evidence in this space looking at various like hunter gatherer populations and things like that, who have very, very high physical activity levels, this PAL kind of metric, and who have fantastic, you know, when you are looking at the types of things that kill us in like modern society, right? These non-communicable lifestyle related metabolic diseases, things like that. And so if you ask the question like, is walking intense enough, again, that's only a partial answer or a partially completed question in my mind. And what I'm getting at to stop beating around the bush is, I think it is actually fine for this purpose if you do enough of it. Now, if the, since the original question asker had said to optimize health outcomes, if the context is seven to 12,000 steps a day, I'd say no, I would say you need probably substantially more than that to get a PAL high enough to like really, really optimize those health outcomes. So if somebody said, I only want to walk for my cardiorespiratory fitness, and I'd be like, are you willing to walk? I don't know, 15, 20,000 steps a day, something like that. I think that that would probably be fine. I think you could do that, get to do that, do some strength training twice a week. I think that'd be like a reason, a reasonable thing, if you were willing and able to do that. I struggle to see, for example, somebody who's willing to walk 20,000 steps a day, who's like, oh, they're going to have some preventable health consequence, unless they added in some like high intensity interval training on top of that. Could they have some like potential fitness gains? Sure, they potentially could. But I think that if you're going to use a fundamentally like low intensity activity for this outcome, I think if you do a massive amount of it, you will probably be pretty in pretty good shape. And so yeah, I don't think that just seven to 12,000, again, for the purposes of this person asking specifically, I want to optimize my health outcomes, because what I'm anticipating is I say this, and then we're going to get questions in the group of people saying like, well, I thought 10,000 steps a day was enough, I can't do it. And it's like, yeah, people are busy, they got jobs, they got kids, they got families, and there are trade offs with that. Like we talked about this recently, and in the context of another post where somebody was like, it's not realistic to expect that everybody is going to do this much exercise. And it's like, yeah, building elite levels of fitness takes time. And you might not have that time. That's why you don't have elite levels of fitness. I'm sorry to say. Yeah, point out a few things. One, missed opportunity to say, are you willing to walk 500 miles? It's like that would have been a nice little, we'll say. And then two, yeah, when you brought up PAL, it triggered this memory of mine, working on another project. There's this classic study of jute mill workers where they actually measured their PAL. And so like the workers who were, you know, in the fields, and then back in the factory, whatever, their PAL was through the roof, right? And that there's a mortality risk, there's relatively low. But the office workers, same environment, far lower PAL, there's a risk there. And so it's all about energy throughput. And I think that sets up a nice continuum, the lower the intensity of the activity, the more of it you're going to have to do to get the same energy throughput, as time becomes more and more limited, more and more intensity is needed. And so you think about a person who is willing to walk, not 500 miles, but 20,000 steps a day, that's over two hours of walking per day at a self-selected pace, even if you're kind of hustling around. Most people don't have that on top of the other responsibilities that they generally have. And so as your time availability becomes less and less, you're going to need more and more intense exercise. So I, you know, I got into a little Twitter spat with, with an individual. They're like, why are you recommending high intensity interval training or high intensity training? You know, it's, it's not optimal for VO2 max zone two is king. And I'm like, well, what if you only have an hour a week? Yeah. At that point, the intensity is going to make up for, at least on some level, the amount of time that you have. And so that's the relationship that we see. If you have all the time in the world and you want to walk, that's fine. I think the more interesting question here that is unanswerable is that if somebody were to be walking 20,000 steps per day, and let's just say that that did not budge their cardiorespiratory fitness from where it was, but their energy throughput is high. Does their longevity look similar to somebody who actually did increase their VO2 max or their cardiorespiratory fitness through, you know, maybe more optimal training methods. And that is a question that remains unanswered. Yeah, I agree. No, no clear answer to that question. The problem or like the wrinkle in your case that you make, and this is implicit, you, you already know this, but just to make it clear is that if to the extent you're time limited and you're having to make up for that gap with more intensity, there is a, an earlier and a firmer ceiling to how intense you can realistically go. In other words, like you cannot necessarily fully make up for the same amount of like PAL, that overall energy expenditure purely through intensity. If you, cause you can only go so intense and then like survive, like recover from it. Right. Kind of like when we talk about with lifting weights, like the intensity, you can only go up to a hundred percent of your one rep max. You can't slash arguably shouldn't go try to go heavier than that on a regular basis. Whereas the overall training volume that you can expose yourself to provided it is like dosed and progress reasonably, people can get up to exceptionally high overall activity volumes. Again, the practicality of that may or may not be feasible for, for people in my own life. You know, now I'm doing a lot more hybrid. I'm doing some hospital work. I'm doing more telemedicine work than I have in the past. And I realized that with the amount of telemedicine work I was doing, I did not want to be seated at a desk doing virtual appointments for most of the day. So I acquired a walking pad that I've, that I've posted about. And so on a routine, if I do have like a full day of virtual, you know, consults and visits and calls and things like that, it's actually not difficult or unusual for me to range between 15 to 25,000 steps. Um, just kind of casually going. And that's even at a very low, slow pace at like a one mile per hour type pace, because I don't want to be like hustling, bouncing around on the screen. It's like enough that I can like stabilize my torso and like look reasonable on, on, on video. And I feel fine and I'm recovering fine and my strength is fine. And I'm still, I'm still doing other activity, including some running and some lifting and stuff like that because I enjoy it. And I feel better when I'm generally more active, but that's like some of the steps that I've taken to, to get there. So yeah, the lower intensity, you have to do more. If your time's compromised, you're going to have to pull the lever of intensity a bit, but that lever will only be able to get you so far. And unfortunately, not everyone is going to be able to reach elite levels of fitness without spending a lot of time, uh, doing the activity. That's just the reality. And that time may not be available. Yeah. Good point. Good point.