 seecrosscrossmarin. In addition to the upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper upper lift support, whatever it is. This is episode number four, where I review the lifts that you've submitted to barbell medicine. And we kind of talk about it, ways to improve ways to get more out of your training. If you want to be on the channel, you want me to review your technique, send me a video media barbell medicine.com is where to send it. Ideally you turned your phone landscape this way and send me a multi rep set. Ideally, it's just hard to tell whether or not it's kind of an off rep or just an artifact of doing a single rather than a multi rep set where I can see, is this something you do on most reps that would be more helpful. So send those into media barbell medicine.com. Also, where are the ladies? Just where are the ladies? We've got a few women in this particular episode. And I know that our demographic is mostly men, but if we want to get more women training, which, you know, we should want that let's get them on the channel. So tell your friends, tell your gym girls that, Hey, we're, we're doing this lift support thing and they can send their video in and we can check their form. What else? Oh yeah. I just got done with the power lifting meat. If you want to see how that went, the, that is up on the channel as well. Check out how I did the power to meet. It was a pretty good one for me. And last but not least, before we pop into the actual form checks, I just kind of want to reiterate how we're looking at technique. We're using this sort of rep model, which again stands for repeatable, efficient, and meets the points of performance in order to evaluate somebody's lifting technique, the style that they sort of selected to do the task. We're not looking at this for like an injury risk reduction standpoint, but more, if anything, how to get more out of your workouts, how to lift more weight, how to improve performance. And, uh, yeah. All right. So enough of the introductions, let's do it. All right. Let's start out here with Anton. I can already tell you, I don't like that. There are no safeties and there are no spotters. Um, I don't like doing multiple reps in a row. I would take a big breath in between each rep until the bar is getting a little far forward. There's a little daylight you can peek under his heels. Yeah. Just a little bit. And so I would stop at the top of each rep, take a big breath. Um, and it looks like your, uh, your back is not being held very tight. It seems like it's, uh, you got a lot of back angle change, uh, on the way up and then, um, yeah, it's just kind of rounding on the way down. So some people might even call this a little butt wink, right? And, uh, yeah, good enough time to discuss that. So butt wink has no definition. There's no consensus on what a butt wink is. Sometimes it happens when people go way below parallel and you actually see the glutes sort of move underneath that sort of, uh, uh, issue tuberosities or the bony aspect of the, of the, uh, hip bone. And so you can kind of looks like, wow, there's a big tuck there. Sometimes it's due to flexion of the lumbar spine. Sometimes it's due to a little bit of both point is, is it dangerous? The answer to that is no, not really. Um, people have been picking things up off the ground, lifting things, um, with the, uh, the spine out of neutral for a long period of time. I'll actually link an article to this that I wrote a few years back in the description below. If you want to kind of go into the research on this and then further, it doesn't necessarily look like that increases the risk of like not only back pain, but disc herniation, other sort of weird things you might pick up on imaging. And then the correlation of that to back pain, that's a whole nother discussion we'll have to get into point is what do to improve efficiency. So thing one, I would definitely try to use safety arms if you can, or spotters, if you have access to those too, um, because the heels were coming up on a few of the reps, I saw daylight underneath the, uh, underneath the feet. Um, I would definitely try to maintain balance a little bit better. It seems like what's happened is the bar is going forward of the midfoot. That's your kind of your balance point, um, on the way up. And some of that's due to sort of, uh, losing tension, um, on the way down. So what I would probably do in this particular situation at the top of each rep, I would do a mini crunch, try to take your bottom of your sternum, your xiphoid process, crunch that to your hip, then take your valsalva. So lock everything in there, then maintain that sort of position during the descent, do one rep at a time, reset in between each rep. Um, and then see if, uh, that fixes things. If not, you might need to adjust the stance width or toe angle. Um, but yeah, I think that would, uh, kind of address all the stuff that I saw here outside of the spotters. All right, next squat. This is Matt Crawford. Also, when you're filming this stuff, guys, ideally I can see all of the weights and all of your body in, in frame. I'm kind of mesmerized by the, the ropes in the background. All right. So this looks like kind of low bar ish. Yep. There's a lot of knee movement forward at the bottom. Um, just can compared to what I would want for max efficiency. That one was better. Yeah, that one, you still see the knees kind of jut forward at the bottom. Yeah. Some people call that knee slide. Okay. So the same thing I also saw if you, uh, let's watch this again while I actually talk over it. Um, so when he squats down, you actually see the sort of back kind of go into a little bit additional extension. So that just tells me that the trunk isn't really locked in, um, into where it should be, uh, as tightly as it should be. And so I would still do that mini crunch that I cued, um, Anton on. So try to pull the sternum down to the hip, then take your big breath and maintain that during the whole duration. And we watch these squats. We see the knees kind of keep creeping forward all the way down and sometimes abruptly. So at the bottom, uh, not so much where he loses balance. I'm looking at the heel that I can see on the far side. Doesn't seem to come up. So balance seems to be good, but I would try to get those knees there sooner. So about halfway down, try to get the knees where they need to go. Pretty good squats though, overall. All right. This is Tegan. Um, actually I think we have two videos of him. Now he, as I recall correctly, he said that his shoulder was, uh, he's suffering from some, from some, I think he called it frozen shoulder, which I don't think he has, cause he can move his shoulder and we actually have a bench video from him coming up. So I don't, I wouldn't call it frozen shoulder, but it might be having some shoulder discomfort trying to, it's difficult for him to get under the bar. Um, I don't love the back angle in general, like, like viewing from the back. You can see like, is the bar centered, um, and stance and stuff like that. No center knurling on the bars. He's using a talon grip, but yeah, the safety hooks look like one too low. And I'm going to guess that his stance is narrow. He's able to do it. There's nothing really wrong with the squat. It just, it's harder for him to get under the bar, which is made harder by the bar being a little too low. All right. So let's look at his next one. This is from the side. This looks like three 35. So the talon grip, if you've never seen it, it's usually just the pinkies under the bar. And so is the thumb. So you have like the three fingers on top, kind of like a talon, if you will. I've used that from time to time. Sometimes when I get some upper extremity sort of sensitivity, um, squatting real heavy at the low bar position, but I've had people use it with, they've had shoulder pain in the high bar position as well. Yeah. I'm looking at a squat here. There's nothing really wrong with the squat mechanically. I mean, you know, you could squat that way and he's a very strong guy. You'll see his bench press as far as what do. So you have somebody with like shoulder pain. It's difficult for them to get under the bar. And can they train the squat effectively like this? And by effective, you mean, can they do a variety of rep ranges somewhere close to failure where they're getting a good sort of training stimulus, uh, out of this. And so I think in this particular case, if he doesn't have access to a safety squat bar, which would be ideal, you know, cause it's just much easier to, to rack and, uh, and hold securely, then, um, you know, you kind of stuck with the barbell. So one, I would move the thing, the bar up, uh, one pin position. I would, uh, do high bar squats and potentially front squats and or search your squats just depends on the programming and whatnot. But I think low bars out for now. I would, I don't care if you use the talon grip versus hands around versus a false grip. I just, uh, I think whatever feels best on the upper extremity is fine. I suspect with an actual high bar squat, um, particularly at a lighter weight, you'll have more options with the grip. The thing is, it seems like this load is what this weight is challenging your ability to actually hold the bar securely and also appears to be a little uncomfortable. So what I would do to get you an entry point to a place where the grip wasn't really holding you back. You actually train the legs somewhat effectively. I probably bumped the rep scheme up. I wouldn't do singles. I see no point in doing singles here. Um, especially cause I think he's on deployment as it were. So we're trying to, you know, have fun, maintain strength, um, not develop a ton of soreness or whatever, and, you know, find some ways to train productively. I'd be thinking somewhere in that sort of eight to 15 rep range. And, uh, if you're, you have to use a load that's so heavy where it's difficult to rack, um, and hold securely. And that becomes the limiting sort of reagent to use chemistry speak here. Then what I would do is actually slow the tempo down, make it three Oh three tempo, uh, something like that, or a five three Oh tempo, uh, do something like that. Three count pause. You can do any of those things. All it's doing is artificially reducing the weight while still allowing you to work hard. And it's not, that's not where you finish your sort of progression, but that's kind of where you start your entry point back into sort of, uh, normal or unrestricted training. You know, I assume that after the shoulder issue, he probably didn't squat with a bar for quite a while. So in any case I would do high bar and or front squats. Uh, I don't care what grip, if it's talent grip, thumbs around, false grip, doesn't matter. Um, I would be working towards being able to use a, you know, thumbs around full grip and a high bar position eventually to low bar. If that's what you wanted to do. And the entry point that I would pick would probably be like a three Oh three tempo high bar squat for sets of 12 to 15 RP six or seven, which means four to three reps left in the tank. I suspect between the loading, uh, being much, much lighter, uh, and due to the rep scheme and the tempo, it's likely that you'll be able to adopt a more secure rack position. And again, I'd move the pins up one, but yeah. Uh, other than that, the only thing on the squat, I saw that the toes were a little off the right one looked like it was pointed out more than the left, but for a single rep and other things that I would, uh, address first, eh, I think it's fine. All right. It's Peter. I don't know what the weight is, but I think this is in full time, full speed. Yeah. You see the bar kind of getting forward to the mid foot on the way up. It's a little bit of pitch there. And then I look at the heels, the heels are down. So that's good. I think my biggest thing is that these are a little slow and we're not holding your upper back tight. Those are the two big things. So, um, I would speed up the descent, speed up, uh, how fast you go down. So you bounce harder and then really try to squeeze your upper back. You can think proud chest. You can think elbows down, elbows forward. That might help. Um, you could think squeeze everything that you have conscious volitional control over in your upper back. Uh, some of those things may work. Um, but yeah, those are the two big things you got to go faster. So you bounce harder out of the bottom and then you got to not lose your upper back just a little bit where the bar drifts forward to mid foot. Other than that, from this angle, it's pretty good. All right. This is Matt. Not the greatest angle. I think this is 90 kilos, 198, like blue man group, no shoes. Yep. See a little back flexion at the bottom, able to keep the feet on the floor. Pretty good. Back looks good on better on the second. Oh, there it is again. Yeah. I don't again, love that there are no spotters or safeties, but you know, you got to do what you got to do. I can, we're going to watch this again. Okay, cool. Let's watch this again. Um, so first off, I don't love people, you know, training barefoot. I see no advantages to that, especially if you have any sort of athletic shoe, um, right off the bat, make sure you start with your knees straight, locked out, not bent. Um, and then, yeah, because the back is unlocking, um, I would prefer not to see that. You can't squat without some sort of spinal flexion. Um, but ideally it wouldn't be that dynamic. So the knees look to be caving a little bit on the way up. So I would, uh, again, do that mini crunch that I kind of addressed earlier. It's a good way to sort of, okay, I'm going to brace. Here's the feet. Here's that sort of feel that I have where I'm maintaining my brace. So again, mini crunch, xiphoid process down to the hip, then take your big breath and you hold that statically during the entirety of the rep. That's kind of where I would start in straightening your knees before each descent, making sure you stand all the way up tall. I think that would be a good place to start, but, uh, yeah, from this particular angle, depth looked good. Bar path looked reasonable to the best I can see it. All right. All right. This is Jess. Oh, this is a resubmission. Okay. What is this? It's a 155 raw with dog. All right. I would prefer the safeties where we're being used. Oh, these are so much better. Yeah. These are so much better. We'll watch our old video and then come back to this one. They're just a little high. That's the, that's the, uh, the thing. Yeah. Just a little bit above parallel still. All right. Let's watch our old video and compare. Now, granted, this is from the back. So hard to see. I think the pupper makes, uh, an appearance here as well, but the safeties are being used. So, you know, let's just see. Hey doggo. Yeah. See, these are just, these are, uh, significantly higher. Well, I don't know the dog's helping the depth. Yep. And it was only two. Okay. So let's go back to this, this, uh, set of squats. All right. So we'd use the safeties. Um, just put them up to a point where, you know, they're just below where you would, where you squat down to the bottom. Okay. And so, yeah, the biggest thing is I need you to push your knees further forward and out. So your first move has got to be knees go forward and out and keep pushing those knees out and forward all the way down. And that's just going to make room for you to get all the way down there. But honestly, the tempo, the bar path, pretty good. Your feet stay reasonably flat on the floor, despite the squishy shoe, which are, I prefer to barefoot and, uh, yeah, squats improving. So just a little bit, if you can go, you know, in your brain, you're going to think I need to go three inches lower. Reality is, you know, about half that, but if you think three inches, four inches lower, you'll, uh, you'll hit that depth and then, you know, you're a professional squatter. All right. This is Lyle. This looks like Atlanta barbell. If so, say what's up to Alex for me. All right. Elbow. Oh, good. He fixed the elbows. Yeah. I just feel like these might be right at parallel. I just can't tell because the safeties. So I'm just going to give the benefit to the lifter. Yeah. These are probably fine. Yeah. I mean, there's just a little tick forward out of the bottom on some of these reps. Um, but I think that's within sort of normal limits. If there was one, I can tell the weight's not heavy because you're doing a million reps with this thing. So yeah, probably the only thing I would actually cue you on is your elbows keep drifting higher and higher throughout the set. And that's going to just give up some mechanical advantage, I think, to keeping the thoracic spine, the upper back tight. So I would push your elbows down or forward and keep them there through the duration of the set. All right. This is Mateo. Don't know what the weight is, but I can tell you that these plates are not standard, uh, diameter. So if you deadlift with these things, you might have to adjust them, but plus one for safeties. That's good. Safety first here in the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I love the arm position. Just feel like the stances look super narrow from here. I'm being dramatic, but yeah, I think the stance given the length of your legs and it seems tall, but again, it could be the camera angle. Yeah. The stance is pretty narrow and it's just limiting your ability to get not only a bounce. Oh, that was pretty good depth, but yeah. Um, I think the only thing that I would do here, Mateo, I would widen your stance. And so this actually is a decent time to talk about this when it comes to like adjusting stance with, for example, something else like that in the squat, it's going to be very difficult for people to adopt a new stance, new toe angle, something like that right off the bat. And so one tool that I use is I have people walk out, take your normal stance and then change it from there. In this case, I'd probably go a half inch wider each side, something like that. But if you were trying to get somebody to adopt a narrower stance, have them walk out to their normal squat stance and then move it in. The point is they know, or they've felt what their normal stance is so many times that you trying to change it. Um, it's easier to go from, okay, this was my previous stance. This is my new stance rather than trying to do it on the fly. It's harder to do. It's not impossible, but harder to do. All right. This is Michael. I like that shirt. I don't know what it is, but I like it. Nice high bar squat, ATG. I'll let you guys figure out what that acronym means. Yeah. Feet are staying flat on the floor, fighting the forward pitch of the bar on the way up. Yeah. I think that was, I don't know what the weight is. It looks like, uh, maybe one 30 kilos. I don't know. Maybe two 86. I'm like that. It might be missing that. Uh, they look fine, but this is actually a decent time to talk about, you know, squat depth. The point is why squat that low versus why squat to an inch below parallel versus parallel versus an inch above parallel. And it's like, um, it really depends what you're squatting for, right? For general, like health, I cannot tell you that there's a best squat depth, inch above parallel, parallel, inch below parallel. To me, that's all a wash. You start getting into like half squats versus squats to parallel. I could make an argument for like, Oh, adductor, Magnus glute max recruitment. Sure. Okay. As far as health benefits, probably the same. And so this is more just like, uh, your personal points of performance and sort of your, that you've decided ahead of time, I'm going to squat to this depth and that's the standard I'm going to hold myself to. Uh, do I think that this version of the squat is likely to make you the strongest squatter as judged by powerlifting standards, which is just the crease of the hip below the top of the knee? No. Is this likely to make you the strongest Olympic weightlifter in, uh, the clean and jerk and the snatch, you know, you're not, the bar's never on your back. So if you were trying to pick a squat variation, that's likely to transfer better best to the Olympic list, it's going to be a front squat. And if you're using back squats as a sort of squat accessory, I think you could classify that as an overload exercise. And so I would probably pick, um, a sort of depth that is below parallel, certainly, but probably not ATG because you're already doing a bunch of that anyway, in training. And if you're not doing Olympic weightlifting, then I don't think you could make an argument from a hypertrophy standpoint from, uh, you know, any other sort of performance standpoint other than squatting, you know, ATG that this is best, but you could also live a full and complete life squatting like this too. So carry on. All right. This is Tim. Yep. Tim, we're going to have to get rid of that false grip. I can already tell for you, unrack the bar. The, your elbows are far too high, far too high. And I just don't think you're going to get there with your, with that false grip thumbs over the top of the bar. I'll go thumbs under little wrist extension. Yep. Get your elbows down. Let's watch it a second time. Cause you see what's happening. The knee slide forward at the bottom too, pretty hard. Um, so two cues, one thumbs around, get your elbows down, pick the bar up out of the rack with your back. And then, um, yeah, push your knees forward harder first. Yeah, that's exactly what happens. So just to reiterate, uh, and we've watched this while I talk, you don't need to stare at my face. The reason why his knees slide forward so much at the bottom is because he's bending over at the hip first and he needs to push his knees forward and out first, get that going a little bit faster, a little bit sooner. Yep. And so you just see, it was mostly bending at the hips first and then the knees kind of followed right at the bottom. Yeah. You'd want, you want the hips and the knees to bend at the same time. Um, not one drastically more than the other. It's just too far with the hips right now. So knees first, get rid of the false grip, get your elbows down. Um, yeah, but Hey, the depth was good. And, uh, I think that was a barbell medicine shirt. So great drip. All right. This is Venkat. Don't like that there are no spotters. Don't like there's no safeties, but squat looks pretty good. Now it's filmed from above hip height. So I can't be certain. I know that was high. Yeah, that one was high. Yeah, that one was high. You can see the knees caving in on the way up. Yeah. Feet stay mostly flat though. Yeah. The, the bones of this squat are pretty good. It's just that, uh, so one, I think the weight was a little challenging to, um, need to go a little bit lower to get that bounce, which is why the velocity is kind of suffering on the way up. You're basically going from, uh, you know, no bounce, perfectly like static start and then trying to reverse the motion. That's, that's difficult to do. Um, and so, yeah, what I would do, I would probably take 10, 15% off the bar. I would first, uh, get probably about two inches lower than where you think you need to go. And you can do that, uh, either just committing to going lower. It could be knees going forward and out. Um, that can be all good. That's probably how I would, uh, start with it. And then once you do that, then I would try to speed up the descent to where you can bounce harder out of the bottom and then the velocity and the way up is going to, going to be a little bit better. Uh, and then also use safeties and or spotters. All right, that's it for squats. If you're liking the video so far, comment below. Uh, also you should comment. What do you think the heaviest bench press is going to be in this particular video? Uh, it's, I will tell you that it's high. You guys can guess how high, uh, but yeah, comment below. See if you're, see if you're right. All right. First up, this is axle pressing. I assume that you're walking forward out of the rack because it's a better way to video this for me that you don't normally do that. Uh, let's just watch it one time through and then we'll watch it a second time. It's my first time seeing this stuff. So I don't really like the touch and go press. I think you run the risk of the bar path getting kind of wonky and the press is super sensitive to, uh, the bar path being off. So I do, I would do each of them from a dead stop. Even if you're doing a sort of dynamic start where you push your hips forward, lay back or whatever and try to throw or heave or launch the bar off of your, off of your chest, sort of the Olympic press, or as I call it, the classic press. Um, I would still do that from a dead stop rather than trying to rebound, bounce the bar off your chest. Like a, uh, it's almost like a continuous bench press, you know? Um, anyway, I wouldn't do that. All right, let's go back and watch this again. And we'll just stop with the grip. Once we get this bar out of the rack right there. Okay. So grip with here, this is kind of a, it's, this is a compromise really, uh, the grip with here, grip with on the bench press. It's very analogous to the sumo deadlift versus the conventional deadlift, the wider, the grip, um, just like on the bench press on the overhead press, just like the wider stance and sumo deadlift, the easier the lockout is going to be your second part of the range of motion is going to be the narrower, the grip on the press, on the bench press, narrow the stance on the conventional deadlift, the faster it's going to be from the bottom, from the start, from the floor and the deadlift off the chest and the bench press and the press. So it's all a compromise. I personally like a closer grip on the press, a wider grip on the bench press. That's just me. That's kind of how I figured out how to press for my personal strengths and kind of anthropometry. I don't know what it is for you, Axel, but I would probably favor a narrower grip only because I can see that your forearms are not vertical. They look to be kind of canted out like that. Now you can fix that by externally rotating a little bit. I just don't think that it's a super strong position. If you were an Olympic weightlifter doing a bunch of push press and jerks, I probably would favor a slightly wider grip, but not just for like the traditional lifts, the overhead press in this particular case. Also, I would widen your stance. 10 out of 10 would widen your stance, probably an inch on each side. Just gives you a more stable base. And then again, I would do each rep from a dead stop. All right. So now that we've kind of addressed this sort of setup sort of thing, let's take a look at the press. Yeah. Hold each lockout too for a beat. Wait for the applause. And then I would do each rep from a dead stop because you're doing some layback there. You're just not really getting much out of it. If you use that layback, that dynamic start to launch the bar off your chest, each rep press is going to go up. The problem is each time it's bouncing off your chest right now, you're not timing the layback as efficiently as it could be. And then also the bar path, it's going too far forward. It's literally bouncing off your chest forward because who knows where it's going to go. You're just kind of not in a great place to make it super efficient. So do each rep from a dead stop, hold the overhead position for one count. Wait for the applause or the admiration, the miring going on in the gym, widen your stance a little bit. And yeah, maybe then after all that, we can play with the grip. Okay. All right. What do we got here? This is Caleb. He's benching 245. Good pause. Good bar path. I saw the retraction of the shoulders on the second rep, not on the first rep or the third rep. Yeah. Okay. So just the, the only thing there, uh, from this particular angle, I would retract your shoulder blades, your scapula, scapulae. It's probably the plural of scapula, right? Uh, I would do that prior to every rep. And so what you should see is that your elbows should remain, uh, locked. Your arms are straight, but the bar should go down to a half inch or an inch. All that's doing is just putting you in a good position to press from a stable position to press from. You're decreasing the range of motion slightly. Um, yeah, I would do that. All right. Next bench. This is, uh, Matt. I don't know what the weight is. It's in Australia. So he's gotta be kilos, maybe 90 kilos, 198, 87.5. Maybe. Don't know. You guys should include the weights when you send them to me. Oh yeah. Good arch, good shoulder position. I would just, yeah, I don't like doing like continuous motion barbell benching. So I would just hold the lockout for a beat each time. I otherwise have no problems with that. Um, yeah, great set, dude. All right. This is Tegan. Uh, this is the guy you might remember from squats earlier. He said he had shoulder issues, but this is 425 pounds. If you guessed 425 in the comment section, hopefully I see that you get, you, you get my admiration. All right. So this is a close grip bench. I can tell from here. I don't love the way this guy's going to lift it all. I can tell. Yep. I don't know why people lift it off with their elbows. What if he always just fell on the dude. Also, he's like, you know, face is way too close. These are good close grip bench presses, close grip, pause, bench presses. Tegan. I have nothing to say about your bench press. It is very strong. I think this is either 425. I think that's what you said. And you sent me 445 for a single, you're a very strong venture. My friend, I have nothing to say to you. These are very efficient other than your spotter friend. He's doing his best. Just have him do a normal lift off. Uh, that would be fine. And then, cause he almost fell on you. And I just imagine if you, if your shoulder's feeling good now, him falling on top of 425 pounds, then subsequently falling on you feels like that might, uh, feels like, feels like that might not, not be too pleasant. Uh, but anyway, thank you for your service. Bench looks good. Make those changes to the squat from earlier and, uh, train untamed. All right. This is max on a bench press. That looks pretty good. This 205 shaking quite a bit. And to me, whenever I see that sort of shaking, I make it. Nah, I just want to look forward off the chest. All right, let's watch it again. So when I see that shaking to me, that just represents someone who's not super well trained in the bench press. It doesn't mean they haven't benched before. It just means they're still kind of figuring out their leverages, still kind of figuring out, um, how to do the lift smoothly, which is why you get some of the shaking stuff. Um, yeah, I kept talking. I'll just, we'll watch it a third time. All right, let's look at the, uh, the touch point touch point looks fine. I would cue you to throw the bar back further. I also don't see a shoulder retraction prior to each rep. Yeah. So that kind of compromised the third rep or the second rep there. And the third rep, it just goes straight off the chest. That's the thing on a bench press. You have to throw the bar, launch the bar, heave the bar, push the bar back towards your head towards the, the, the pins, um, to close down the gap that you introduced on the way down. You bring the bar down from directly over the shoulder joint to somewhere a little bit lower when you're looking at the, the, the lift from the side, uh, to touch your chest. And then what you need to do as soon as that bar leaves your chest, it's got to go back right over the shoulder joint, push straight up. Yeah. So all told what I would do on, for your bench max, um, I would again, before each rep, pull the shoulder blades back to the bench. That's thing. One thing too, when you're pressing the bar off your chest, it's got to go back up and back, make sure to do that. Uh, and then three, I would probably start playing around with grip width. I'm not sure that going wider and narrower is the right choice. If I had to pick one, I'd probably start going a little bit narrower. Um, but yeah, and that's just for now your technique and your preferred grip, uh, width and, and mechanics are just going to evolve over time as your body changes, not only in strength and, and, and size, but also, uh, as you get, uh, more and more skills and just, you know, you're, it's going to change. I was a close grip bencher for years and years and years and years. And then after my first shoulder dislocation, I moved to a wide grip bench, finally PR my bench press, um, after, after some, some time trying. So I, uh, I would be playing around with that. And then I would probably just suggest programming. If bench press has been a struggle for you, I'd be looking at the program because the bench press, your technique doesn't look bad. Just, just the weight selection here was too heavy, uh, for the day. And so, yeah. All right. That's all for presses. Now we're on a dead list. First up, this is clay. He's 47. He's got diabetes and he's going to deadlift. He's got type one. Yeah. I see the continuous glucose monitor on his shoulder. This is 365. All I see is the hips moving up just a little bit prior to the bar leaving the floor. It's gotta be like a set of 10 or something. So I think the hips are just a little low. Yeah. But the overall set looks, uh, pretty good. Just, uh, yeah. From this angle, it looks like the bar is staying on your legs quite nicely. It looks like you're standing up tall at the top of each rep. The bar is now forward. Are you going to fix it? Yeah. It's just light enough for you to pull it around your knees. Yeah, dude. Good set. It's just, uh, quite light for you. Um, and a dog bonus dog material. Nice. Yeah. Good job, man. All right. This is Rodrigo practicing the dark arts. This looks like, was this one 80 kilos, three 96. I wonder how, how long you've been a sumo deadlifting for? Cause it looks, uh, the second rep is much better. Yeah. First rep, uh, looked a little like, like a conventional deadlifter doing a sumo, but you cleaned it up. It's like your cerebellum figured out like, ah, different motor pattern. Please select. Honestly, these look really good. I'm not sure that there's much that I would change here. Yeah. Pretty good set. Carry on. All right. This is Wes. Oh, you actually did the meat that I did. So this is from the meat that I did. Let's take a look at this. Yeah. Just the hips are too low. Yep. Hips are too low. What is this at the top? We'll freeze frame it. This looks like two, maybe 220. So four E four. Yeah. So, uh, we'll go back and play it again. So the hips are too low. So if the hips are too low, that means the bar is too far forward, which means the knees are too far flex. And so the only way to get in the right position is either flex your spine, get your shoulders over the bar or the hips have to raise up and they do both. It's not bad. You can deadlift that way. It's just not very efficient. And it makes it feel like, um, you're pulling for a long time, even though that rep, you could have done maybe a set of four or five with that, with the gun to your head. So, um, I think as you're training, particularly as you're thinking about how do I maximize efficiency on my deadlift it in general, when people have their hips too low, they're either actively dropping their hips after they've already kind of set up, touch their shins to the bar, meaning that they walk up to the bar, they grab the bar, they kind of bend down, push their shins to the bar. And then they can either shove the bar forward by their pressure of their shins on the barbell, or they can actively like drop their butt down. And that most of the time, then the weight's too far shifted back in the heels. So those two things can happen. A third option exists where people, when they walk up to the bar, they're far too far away from the bar. And so they just set up with the bar, you know, way in front of the midfoot shins, uh, far too, uh, forward hips way too low. Um, just looking at your deadlift again, it's only single rep. We can watch it again, take your grip, see what happens when your shins touch the bar. Yeah. So that's one of those things where it's like the shin there's actually in a decent position, but then it is kind of like leaned back and dropped your butt. Um, so I would in general cue you to get closer to the bar one inch away when you're standing up straight without your knees bent. And then, um, that is going to put you in a good position to pull. You would grab the barbell then without bending your knees. So you round your back, push your knees forward and out, like you're squatting to touch the bar. Do not move the barbell, push your knees out into your elbows, squeeze your chest up. And then if you need like a mental check note, like, am I in the right position? The, your knees, the patella, you should feel that in the, uh, antecubital fossa and this little crook of your elbow should feel that, um, and your shoulders, you should feel like they're in front of the barbell. And then if all of that checks out, take a big breath, squeeze your chest up, drag the bar up your legs. All right. This is Rita Kaplan from Israel. Hope everything's okay. Over there, still deadlifting. I think the last one, last deadlift you sent me, you were doing sumo. So plot twist. She also does conventional hips are too low. Yeah. The other thing, Rita, I can't tell. It looks like your grip is also a little asymmetrical from this side. It looks like the right, your right arm is outside of where the knurling starts. These aren't bad. The perfectly reasonable way to deadlift. You could live a full and complete life this way, but if you want to lift as much weight as possible, I'd probably change a few things, two things actually, but these are strong. Yeah. You do a really good job. Even though your hips are a hair low, you do really good job of just like fighting through it and not reverting to your, you know, uh, back rounding too much, your hips lifting too much. It's just making it harder for you. Okay. So the, we're rewatching this. It does look like there's a gap on that right side between where your pinky is in the start of the knurling. Uh, make sure your grip's even. So right at the start of the knurling that do that thing. One thing too, I think you just, when you set up to the barbell, you're just a quarter of an inch or so, maybe a half inch too far away from the bar, get closer to the barbell. So your butt's going to be a little higher. Shoulders are going to be over the bar a little bit more. Other than that though, you, uh, you're very strong. Nice job, Rita. I don't know what the weight is. I'm going to guess. I see two plates that look to be the same thickness and then a smaller plate. This is 275. Maybe. Oh, now I see four plates on this one side. I'm stupid. Yep. Forget what I had to say. All right. This is max. I think this is four, four 35. Looks right. I like the shoes. If you know, you know. Oh yeah, dude. I think, I mean, that was one rep. Let's see the second rep. The first rep was great. Second rep's also great. Nice. Is this a perfect set of deadlifts? I mean, it's pretty dang good. I hate when the bar rolls away from you, like the platforms, you know, not perfectly level. It's my only complaint with like platforms like this, but it looks like he's lifting at home and he did a good job. He's got a nice setup. Yeah. Last rep. Your hips are just a skosh too low, but everything else looked great. Nice set, dude. Really nice. I just richie. Okay. So bar is too far forward off of your legs. I would also do each one from a dead stop. So just, you know, let the bar settle and then redo it. But yeah, the bar is too far forward. All right. Let's watch them again. Cause man was going fast. Yeah. Bar's too far forward. So your hips need to go up. The shins will be a little straighter and then take a second in between each rep to get set. Cause your back, you're not setting your back quite, quite at all. It's just really light for you. So it's not really folding you over that much. And then I would just lose the weight lifting shoes, the weight lifting shoes in the deadlift. People argue about this all the time. I'm like, Oh, you use more quads. That's a hundred percent made up. Absolutely not true. If the thing is, it makes it feel a little bit harder because now your foot and ankle, everything's on an incline. And so everything wants to drift away from you. The bar wants to drift away from you. It's just harder to hold the bar on your legs. It doesn't make you any stronger. There's a reason why nobody uses weight lifting shoes to lift world record weights. If it was better and these people all have access to weight lifting shoes, they would do it. If you're an Olympic weightlifter and using the deadlift to get better Olympic weightlifting, Hey man, use your weight lifting shoes. But if you're just trying to lift more weight and, or if you're a powerlifter, 10 out of 10 would recommend getting rid of them. Any reason to use them other than not changing your shoes, like saving time from not changing your shoes is completely made up. This is Tim. Single. I mean the single look good. Let's watch it again. Cause it's just one Tim next time. Send me some reps. Uh, yeah. The only thing I would have you do, Tim, I think you can hold your thoracic spine in a little bit more extended position. And I think what's happening is you're looking down like pretty close to you. So I would look out like 12 to 20 feet and really try to squeeze your chest up, puff your chest out for me. And then once you hit that in setup, in the setup, you feel like, ah, that's as much as I can do. Then take your big breath and go. I don't like taking a big breath before that. It seems like if the purpose of the Valsalva maneuver is to stiffen or make more rigid the trunk, right? And do that before your trunk is like set. Well, it's kind of like you're fighting against yourself. So squeeze yourself into that position, angry gorilla chest or whatever, chest out, proud chest, whatever you want. And then take a big breath, then drag the bar up your legs. And I would stare further out. So you, you know, less tendency to kind of round over. All right. Last but not least, this is, uh, Jacob. Yep. Deadlifting looks like a lot of plates on there. Let's just call it four 95. Oh yeah. The hips are too low. So you guys aren't, they already know what's going to happen. Hips come up, bar leaves the floor. It doesn't look bad. You're able to hold your back in a pretty good position. It's just your hips are too low. Yep. So every rep that bar goes further and further forward. And what you need to do, instead of shoving your knees further and further forward to get your shins on the barbell, you need to roll the bar back. Yeah. All right, Jacob. So check this out. When you go to set up for your very first rep on your next deadlift, I want you to get one inch away from the bar with your shins. So far closer than you think you should be walk up to your normal position, get closer. Thing two, after every rep, the bar is going to ramp off your quads and end up forward of you. Uh, so straighten your legs out like you're doing right now, but instead of pushing your knees and shins further forward to touch the bar and it's now new, more forward position, roll the bar back to where it's just about an inch forward of your shins. Your butt's going to feel like it's crazy high in the air. That's fine. It should feel like that. Your knees aren't going to be straight. They're going to be straighter than they are right now, but yeah. All right. That's a wrap on, uh, lift support number four. Again, I'm Jordan Feigemann with Barbell Medicine. Thank you guys so much for watching. Leave a comment below. I got to start talking about something else in the beginning besides just the rep model. Although I do like it. And you know, if we need to have a doctor on the internet telling people it's safe to lift, I'll be that person. In my estimation, it's far more important that you lift compared to how you lift. So let's just get more people lifting, but yeah, like subscribe, do all that fun stuff. We'll catch you next time. Thanks for tuning in. Bye.